FLOYD COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 2021-32, passed 12-21-2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  *  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Floyd
County Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this Title I compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code,
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1) This code is a codification of previously existing laws,
amendments thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law, or
amendment thereto, reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and
effect, as if it had not been repealed by this code.
      (2)   All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to
the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this, or any subsequent, codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content.
      (2)   These descriptive headings are for organizational purposes only and
do not affect the meaning, application, or construction of the law they
precede.
      (3)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform, in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The county’s Board of Commissioners.
      COUNTY. Floyd County, Indiana.
      COUNTY COUNCIL. The financial body.
      COUNTY EXECUTIVE. The Board of Commissioners of Floyd County.
      DESIGNEE. Following an official of the county, the authorized agent
employee or representative of the official.
      ET SEQ. The Latin phrase meaning AND THE FOLLOWING.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      I.A.C. Rules and regulations found in the Indiana Administration Code.
      I.C. State law found in the Indiana Code.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only; may, where the context
requires, extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one
person or thing; a word importing the plural number only, may, where the
context requires, extend and be applied to one person or thing, as well as to
several persons or things.
      ORDINANCES and RESOLUTIONS. The ordinances and resolutions of the county
and all amendments including this code and its supplements.
      OWNER. As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant, by the
entirety of the whole, or a part of, the building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, and the officers or agents thereof.
      PLAN COMMISSION. The Commission established to carry out the duties of
I.C. 36-7-4-401 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Property not owned by a public entity.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, road, highway, alley, lane, sidewalk,
crosswalk, or other public way, or any public property, or any shopping center
whose owners have entered into a contract with the county pursuant to I.C. 36-
7.
      QUORUM. A majority of the members of a board, commission, committee, or
County Council holding office, unless otherwise specifically provided in this
code.
      REAL PROPERTY. Land, tenements, and hereditaments.
      REGISTERED MAIL. Certified mail with return receipt requested.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
      STATE. The state of Indiana.
      STATE LAW REFERENCES. The Indiana Code (I.C.) and any subsequent
amendments.
      STREET. All roads, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, squares,
boulevards, viaducts, or other public ways in the county which have been, or
may hereafter be, dedicated and open to public use for vehicular traffic.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by planning and development
laws of the state, including a fee interest, a life estate, a future interest,
a present possessory interest, or an equitable interest of a contract
purchaser.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, includes any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, the
building or land, either alone or with others.
      TIME. Includes words used in the past or present tense, and includes the
future, as well as the past and present.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships within the county.
      WILL. A mandatory direction.
      WORDS AND PHRASES. According to the common and approved usage of the
language, but technical words and phrases, and others that have acquired a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law, shall be construed and understood
according to the meaning.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.
         (a)   Printing, lithographing, or other modes of representing words
and letters.
         (b)   Where the written signature of a person is required, the terms
mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted, or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with, and
so dependent upon, the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code, regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable, as provided in division (B)
above, does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the County
Council or Board of Commissioners refers to any board, bureau, commission,
division, department, officer, agency, authority, or instrumentality of any
government, and that name designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective
date of that ordinance or following the effective date, the rights, powers,
duties, or liabilities placed with that entity are, or were, transferred to a
different entity; then the named board, bureau, commission, department,
division, officer, agency, authority, or instrumentality, whether correctly
named in the ordinance at its effective date or not, means that correctly named
entity, or the entity to which the duties, liabilities, powers, and rights were
transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word, or words, to which no meaning
can be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when another word, or words,
was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word, or words, supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any
section shall not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability
incurred under the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides.
The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of
sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty,
forfeiture, or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
   (B)   If, in an ordinance or resolution heretofore or hereafter adopted and
passed by the Board of Commissioners or the County Council, a reference is made
to a federal or state statute, code, rule, or regulation which is subsequently
repealed and thereafter recodified in the same or a revised, rearranged, or
restated form,  such citation to a prior statute, code,  rule, or regulation
shall be construed and treated as a reference to the replaced and reenacted
form of the provision.
(Ord. 2003-XXII, passed 5-27-2003)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and re-enacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and re-enactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions
for causes arising, or acts committed prior, to the effective date of this code
may be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not
been enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect, unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof, as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985).
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CIVIL RIGHTS GENERALLY
      
32.   EMPLOYMENT AND OFFICIALS
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
35.   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; FEES
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Eminent domain
   
30.02   Uniform internal control standards for political subdivisions
   
30.03   Voting precincts
§ 30.01  EMINENT DOMAIN.
   (A)   Outside of the corporate limits of the civil cities and towns within
the county, no private property shall be taken in the exercise of eminent
domain without first seeking the approval of the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)    No approval shall be given unless, and until, the Board determines
that the proposed taking is primarily for a public use and primarily for the
benefit of the public at large.
   (C)   An action may be brought for mandatory or injunctive relief as against
any person violating the terms and provisions of this section, which action
shall be brought in the name of the county or the Board of Commissioners, as
appropriate.
   (D)   In all actions under this section, the county and/or the Board of
Commissioners shall be represented by the attorney retained by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 2006-VIII, passed 9-5-2006)
§ 30.02  UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The county finds that its mission as related to an internal control
system is as follows:
      (1)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
      (2)   Provision of services as determined through the political process
including, but not limited to, the recycling services that the county provides;
      (3)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability,
and transparency; and
      (4)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement, or errors.
   (B)   The county finds that its interrelated, and often overlapping,
objectives as related to an internal control system are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives, which involve the ways governmental services
are performed, and the performance of those providing governmental services
including by way of example budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash management,
and planning, among others;
      (2)   Reporting objectives, which involve the filing of financial and
non-financial information to those inside the government and those outside of
the government, including, by way of example, filing the annual report, audit,
and examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms, and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept such as an OSHA log and responding to a public records request
amount others; and
      (3)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations,
including, by way of example, following guidance documents, such as the State
Board of Accounts’ manuals, bulletins, directives, and the Department of Local
Government Finance’s forms and directions, and including other outside-of-
government trainings and documents, such as IACT, among others.
   (C)   The county adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency, as described in the Uniform Internal Control Standards for
Indiana Political Subdivisions guidance document from the State Board of
Accounts, dated September 2015, and as thereafter modified:
      (1)   Control environment;
      (2)   Risk assessment;
      (3)   Control activities;
      (4)   Information and communication; and
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (D)   The county adopts and directs the following principals in explanation
of the pertinent standards above be followed as all levels of county
government:
      (1)   Control environment:
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values;
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the county’s internal control
system;
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility, and delegates authority to achieve the county objectives;
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop, and
retain competent individuals; and
         (e)   Management evaluates per- formance and holds individuals
accountable for its internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment:
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances;
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives;
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing, and responding to risks; and
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities:
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks;
         (b)   Management designs the county information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks; and
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication:
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the county’s
objectives;
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the county’s objectives; and
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the county’s objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring:
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results; and
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (E)   The county adopts the internal control standards as mentioned above so
as to establish an effective internal control system for the county through its
design, implementation, and operation.
   (F)   The county directs the above standards be used to design, implement,
operate, and modify current operations; reporting and compliance objectives
that will safeguard the assets of the county; promote reliability,
accountability, and transparency of financial and non-financial information;
and to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office, department,
and personnel (as defined below) for an effective and reasonable internal
control system of the county.
   (G)   The county authorizes the Board of Commissioners to review the current
internal control system of the county and adopt a policy for the future
internal control system to be effective after June 30, 2016, and perform an
annual review, or more if determined necessary for compliance with this
section.
   (H)   The personnel, whether an official or employee, of the county, whose
official duties include receiving, processing, deposition, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity, shall
comply with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and any
other policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the
county, now, and as modified in the future.
   (I)   The personnel of the county whose official duties include receiving,
processing, deposition, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on minimum internal
control standards and procedures, and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the county, and shall cooperate with the County Fiscal
Officer, or his or her designee, so that the Fiscal Officer can timely certify
to the State Board of Accounts that the training was received annually by the
personnel, as provided by law.
   (J)   The county authorized the Board of Commissioners to determine the
position and person who are the personnel referred to in divisions (H) and (I)
above and notify such personnel.
   (K)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners, or its designee, will perform all
the internal control system activities/duties.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners constitutes as management.
   (L)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the county are
hereby directed to abide by, and to cooperate fully in, the implementation of
the internal control system of the county.
   (M)   An employee who fails to abide by, or cooperate with, the
implementation, compliance, and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation of such, and may result in the discipline,
including termination, of the employee.
   (N)   An elected or appointed official of the county who fails to abide by,
or cooperate with, the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
   (O)   This section may be implemented by any, and all, of the following
actions, or such others as authorized by the Board of Commissioners:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the county where it posts employer posters or notices to its
employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of the section; or
      (4)   Any such other action, or actions, that would communicate the
policies established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 30.03  VOTING PRECINCTS.
   (A)   (1)   The county, by and through the Board of Commissioners, hereby
establishes precincts for the county.
      (2)   A precinct description and map of the boundaries of each precinct
established and submitted to the State Election Division is incorporated herein
by reference.
      (2)   This section shall become effective upon the approval of said
precincts by either the State Election Division (provided no objection is filed
by a voter of the county by 12:00 p.m. ten days after the publication of notice
of the proposed precinct establishment order); or upon the approval of the
State Election Commission after hearing on an timely objection filed by a voter
of the county, all pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 3-11-1.5.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall update as provided the changes to the
County Council districts as follows:
      (1)   The County Council shall continue to be divided into four
districts;
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-2-4, the Board of Commissioners shall divide
the county into four districts that:
         (a)   Are composed of contiguous territory;
         (b)   Are reasonably compact;
         (c)   Do not cross precinct boundary lines;
         (d)   1.   Contain, as nearly as possible, equal population.
            2.   The County Commissioners, in determining population, have
relied on U.S. Census Data from the 2020 Census, as provided by the state.
            3.   All population figures contained in the ordinance codified
herein are from the aforementioned data source; and
         (e)   The County Commissioners have attempted to redistrict the County
Council boundaries in such a way as to keep all townships whole.
            1.   Where the Commissioners have deviated from townships
boundaries, it was done in an effort to appropriate the districts populations
as equal as possible.
            2.   In addition, the Commissioners considered population trends in
making their final decision.
      (3)   The new districts populations are approximately as follows and the
description of the division of the district boundaries are as follows pursuant
to I.C. 36-2-3-40.
      (4)   The County Commissioners have prepared a map showing the new
boundaries of the districts pursuant to I.C. 36-2-3-4(h):
(Ord. 2014-XII, passed 10-24-2014; Ord. 2013-X, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 2021-25,
passed 12-7-2021)
CHAPTER 31:  CIVIL RIGHTS GENERALLY
Section
Human Rights Commission
   
31.01   Purpose
   
31.02   Definitions
   
31.03   Civil Rights Commission; creation
   
31.04   Civil Rights Commission; powers and duties
   
31.05   Investigation of complaints
   
31.06   Judicial review
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
§ 31.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the public policy of the state to provide all of its citizens
equal opportunity for education, employment, access to public conveniences and
accommodations, and acquisition of real property through purchase or rental,
and to eliminate segregation or separation based solely upon race, religion,
color, sex, national origin, or ancestry, since such segregation is an
impediment to equal opportunity. Equal education and employment opportunities,
equal access to, and use of, public facilities and accommodations, and equal
opportunity for acquisition of real property are hereby declared to be civil
rights.
   (B)   The practice of denying the rights stated in division (A) above to
properly qualified persons by reason of the race, religion, color, sex,
national origin, or ancestry of such person is contrary to the principles of
freedom and equality of opportunity and a burden to the objectives of the
public policy of this county, and shall be considered as discriminatory
practices. The promotion of equal opportunity without regard to race, religion,
color, sex, national origin, or ancestry through reasonable methods is the
purpose of this subchapter.
   (C)   It is also the public policy of this county to protect employers,
labor unions or organizations, employment agencies, property owners, real
estate brokers, builders, and lending institutions from unfounded charges of
discrimination.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be contrary to the public policy of the
county and an unlawful practice for any person, for profit, to induce, or
attempt to induce, any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations
regarding the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person, or
persons, of a particular race, religion, color, sex, national origin, or
ancestry.
   (E)   It is further the public policy of this county to ensure that all
handicapped persons shall be entitled to full and equal access as other members
of the public to all housing accommodations offered for rent, lease, or
compensation in this county; provided, however, that the effectuation of such
public policy shall not require any person renting, leasing, or providing for
compensation real property to modify his or her property in any way to provide
a higher degree of care for a handicapped person than for one who is not so
handicapped. Any person renting, leasing, or providing real property for
compensation shall not refuse to accept a handicapped person as a tenant by
reason of the fact that such person has a guide dog that assists such person in
overcoming any particular handicap.
   (F)   This subchapter shall be construed broadly so as to effectuate its
purpose.
   (G)   This subchapter, and any rules or regulations promulgated pursuant to
this subchapter, shall be broadly construed to accomplish the purpose of this
subchapter and the policies of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 74-I, passed 6-3-1974)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIRMATIVE ACTION. Those acts which the Commission deems necessary to
assure compliance with this Human Rights Ordinance.
   COMMISSION. The county’s Human Rights Commission hereinafter created.
   COMMISSION ATTORNEY. The County Attorney, or such assistants of the County
Attorney as may be assigned to the Commission by the County Attorney, or such
other attorney who voluntarily lends his or her services at the request of the
Commission.
   COMPLAINANT. Any individual charging on his or her own behalf to have been
personally aggrieved by a discriminatory practice, or by a Commissioner of the
Human Rights Commission, charging that a discriminatory practice was committed
against a person other than himself or herself, or a class of people, in order
to vindicate the public policy of the state, as defined §
31.01.
   COMPLAINT. Any written agreement filed by a complainant with the Commission.
      (1)   (a)   The original COMPLAINT shall be signed and verified before a
notary public or ether person duly authorized by law to administer oaths and
take acknowledgments.
         (b)   Notarial service shall be furnished by the Commission without
charge.
      (2)   To be acceptable, a COMPLAINT shall be sufficiently complete so as
to reflect the full name and address of the complainant; the name and address
of the respondent, the individual against whom the COMPLAINT is made; the
alleged discriminatory practice and a statement of the particulars thereof; the
date, or dates, and places of the alleged discriminatory practice, and, if the
alleged discriminatory practice is of a continuing nature, the dates between
which said continuing acts of discrimination are alleged to have occurred; and
a statement as to any other action, civil or criminal, instituted in any other
form based upon the same grievance as is alleged in the COMPLAINT, together
with a statement as to the status or disposition of such other action.
      (3)   No COMPLAINT shall be valid unless filed with the Commission within
90 days of the date of the occurrence of the alleged discriminatory practice or
from the date of the termination of a published and meaningful grievance
procedure provided by a respondent employer or labor union.
   CONSENT AGREEMENT. A formal agreement entered into in lieu of adjudication.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the county’s Human Rights Commission.
   DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE.
      (1)   (a)   The exclusion of a person from equal opportunities because of
race, religion, color, sex, national origin, or ancestry;
         (b)   A system which excludes persons from equal opportunities because
of race, religion, color, sex, national origin, or ancestry; or
         (c)   The promotion of racial segregation or separation in any manner,
including, but not limited to, the inducing of, or the attempting to induce,
for profit, any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representation regarding
the entry into the neighborhood of a person of a particular race, religion,
color, sex, national origin, or ancestry.
      (2)   Every DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE relating to the acquisition or sale
of real property, education, public accommodation, or employment shall be
considered unlawful unless specifically exempted by this subchapter.
   EMPLOYEE. Includes any person employed by another for wages or salary;
provided, however, that it should not include any individual employed by his or
her parents, spouse, or child, or in the domestic service of any person.
   EMPLOYER.
      (1)   Includes the state, or any political or civil subdivision thereof,
and any person employing six or more persons within the state.
      (2)   EMPLOYER does not include any not-for-profit corporation or
association organized exclusively for fraternal or religious purposes; nor any
school, educational, or charitable religious institution owned, conducted by,
or affiliated with a church or religious institution; nor any exclusively
social club, corporation, or association that is not organized for profit.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY. Any person undertaking, with or without compensation, to
procure, recruit, refer, or place employees.
   HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
      (1)   All individuals who, by reason of physical or mental defects or
infirmity, whether congenital or acquired by accident, injury, or disease, are,
or may hereafter be, totally or partially prevented from achieving the fullest
attainable physical, social, economic, mental, and vocational participation in
the normal process of living.
      (2)   HANDICAPPED PERSONS shall include, but not be limited to, blind and
visually handicapped individuals.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION.
      (1)   Any real property, or portion thereof, which is used or occupied,
or is intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied, as a home,
residence, or sleeping place of one or more persons; or any single family
residence the occupants of which rent, lease, or furnish for compensation not
more than one room therein.
      (2)   The term shall not include any hotels, lodging places, or other
pieces of public accommodations, amusement, or resort of a transient nature.
   LABOR UNION OR ORGANIZATION. Any organization which exists for the purpose,
in whole or in part, of collective bargaining or dealing with employers
concerning grievances, terms or conditions of employment, or for other mutual
aid or protection in relation to employment.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, partnerships, associations,
organizations, corporations, labor organizations, cooperatives, legal
representatives, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, and other
organized groups of persons.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. Any establishment which caters or offers its services,
facilities, or goods to the general public.
   SEX. As it is applied to segregation or separation in this subchapter, shall
apply to all types of employment, education, public accommodations, and
housing; provided, however, that:
      (1)   It shall not be a discriminatory practice to maintain separate
restrooms;
      (2)   It shall not be any unlawful employment practice for an employer to
hire and employ employees, for an employment agency to classify, or refer for
employment, any individual; or a labor union or organization to classify its
membership, or to classify, or refer for employment, any individual; or for an
employer, labor organization, or joint labor-management committee controlling
apprenticeship, or other training or retraining programs, to admit or employ
any other individuals in any such program on the basis of SEX in those certain
instances where SEX is a bonafide occupational qualification reasonably
necessary to the normal operation of that particular business or enterprise;
and
      (3)   It shall not be a discriminatory practice for a private or
religious educational institution to continue to maintain and enforce a policy
of admitting students of one SEX only.
(Ord. 74-I, passed 6-3-1974)
§ 31.03  CIVIL RIGHTS COMMISSION; CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Human Rights Commission composed of seven
members who are residents of the county, and are representative of the racial,
ethnic, religious, economic, and educational groups in the community.
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners within 30 days of the effective date of this subchapter.
      (2)   Of the seven members first appointed to the Commission, three shall
be appointed for terms of one year, two shall be appointed for terms of two
years, and two shall be appointed for terms of three years. Thereafter, each
appointment shall be for a term of three years.
   (C)   (1)   The first meeting of the Commission shall be called by the first
member appointed within 30 days of the appointment of the last member
appointed.
      (2)   At the first meeting and at each annual meeting held thereafter,
the Commission shall organize by the election of a Chairperson, Vice
Chairperson, and Secretary, each of whom, except those first elected, shall
serve for a term of one year and until his or her successor is elected.
   (D)   The Commission shall meet once each month at a regularly published
time and place, and shall hold such special meetings as the Chairperson deems
necessary, or as shall be requested by a majority of its members.
   (E)   If a member dies or resigns, his or her successor shall be appointed
to serve the unexpired term to which his or her predecessor had been appointed.
The Board of Commissioners may remove members of the Human Rights Commission
for cause but for no other reason.
   (F)   The expenses necessary for Commission activities shall be budgeted
for, and paid out of, funds in the County Treasury, as the same may be
appropriated for such purposes; however, the Commission shall be, and is vested
with, the authority to accept gifts or bequests, or other payments, public or
private, subject only to the approval thereof by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 74-I, passed 6-3-1974)
§ 31.04  CIVIL RIGHTS COMMISSION; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To create and appoint subcommittees and advisory committees as, in the
judgment of the Commission, are necessary to effectuate the purposes stated in
this subchapter;
   (B)   To adopt, promulgate, amend, and rescind rules and regulations,
procedural and substantive, necessary to effectuate purposes of this
subchapter. Such rules and regulations of the Commission shall be published and
made available to the public in the office of the County Clerk;
   (C)   To issue such publications and make such pronouncements as in the
judgment of the Commission will tend to minimize or eliminate discrimination
because of race, religion, color, sex, national origin, or ancestry;
   (D)   To prepare and issue annually a report to the Board of Commissioners
describing, in detail, such investigations, or other proceedings conducted, and
the results thereof, as well as a statement with respect to such other actions
or activities undertaken by the Commission in fulfillment of its
responsibilities;
   (E)   To formulate policies deemed necessary to effectuate the purposes of
this subchapter, and to make recommendations to the county and its subdivisions
with respect to implementation of the policies so formulated. The several
departments, commissions, boards, authorities, divisions, and the officers of
the county and its subdivisions shall furnish the Commission, upon request,
such records, papers, or other information in their possession relating to any
matter before the Commission;
   (F)   To make a prompt and full investigation of each complaint properly
before the Commission relating to an unlawful discriminatory practice;
provided, the Commission shall not conduct proceedings relative to an alleged
discriminatory practice in the absence of a duly filed complaint, as the same
is defined in §
31.02;
   (G)   (1)   To hold public hearings, subpoena witnesses, compel their
attendance, administer oaths, take the testimony of any person under oath, and
to require the production for examination of any books and papers relating to
any matter under investigation, or in question before, the Commission; and
      (2)   The Commission may make rules as to the issuance of subpoenas by
individual Commissioners. Contumacy or refusal to respond to a subpoena issued
pursuant to this section shall constitute a contempt. A citation of contempt
may be issued, upon application by the Commission, to the circuit court or
judge thereof.
   (H)   (1)   To state its findings of fact after hearing, and, if the
Commission finds a person has engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice,
it may cause to be served on such person an order requiring such person to
cease and desist from the unlawful discriminatory practice, and require such
person to take further affirmative action as would effectuate the purposes of
this subchapter, including, but not limited to, the power to restore
complainants losses incurred as a result of discriminatory treatment, as the
Commission may deem necessary to ensure justice; and
      (2)   If the Commission finds that the respondent has not engaged in any
unlawful practice or violation of this subchapter as alleged, the findings of
the Commission shall so state, and the Commission shall issue and cause to be
served on the complainant an order dismissing said complaint as to such person.
   (I)   To review compliance of all consent agreements approved by the
Commission. If, upon review, the Commission determines that a party to such
agreement is not complying with the terms thereof, the Commission my seek
enforcement of such consent agreement in the circuit court; provided, however
that such party is subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction and resides or
transacts business within the county in which the petition for enforcement is
brought;
   (J)   To issue temporary emergency orders against any person necessary for
the preservation of a remedy which may reasonably result following the
conclusion of the investigation into the complaint giving rise to such order;
provided, however:
      (1)   No emergency order shall be issued unless the time and place for
the hearing on such temporary emergency order is designated in the order;
      (2)   A hearing into the matter of the temporary emergency order shall be
held within 15 days following the issuance thereof, unless same may be
continued by the Commission upon the request of the respondent:
         (a)   At such hearing, the complainant must demonstrate that a failure
to continue the temporary order would adversely affect the remedy sought to be
attained by complainant’s complaint; and
         (b)   Upon reviewing the comparative hardship to complainant and
respondent, the Commission shall order the continuation or termination of the
temporary emergency order pending final disposition of the complaint.
      (3)   The Commission may be rule provide for the issuance of a temporary
emergency order by a single member of the Commission, and it may compel
compliance with the terms of such temporary order by resort to action in the
county’s circuit court.
   (K)   To prevent, by action of the Commission, any person from discharging,
expelling, or otherwise discriminating against any other person because of the
fact that he or she filed a complaint with, or testified in any hearing before,
the Commission, or in any way assisted the Commission with respect to any
matter under investigation.
(Ord. 74-I, passed 6-3-1974)
§ 31.05  INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a duly filed complaint, the Chairperson of the
Commission shall designate a member thereof to conduct an initial investigation
into the allegations contained in said complaint. The member so appointed or
designated shall be thereafter disqualified from hearing or making a final
decision on the complaint, but may, nevertheless, appear as a witness if a
public hearing is thereafter held.
   (B)   If, after the initial investigation the Commissioner conducting same
shall determine the absence of probable cause to believe the allegations
contained in the complaint to be true, the complainant shall be furnished with
a copy of the Commissioner’s findings of fact and recommendations to the
Commission.
      (1)   Thereupon, the complainant shall be given ten days within which to
lodge with the Commission a written request, stating, in detail, the reasons
therefor, for review of the findings of the Commissioner with respect to the
existence of probable cause.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of such a request, the Chairperson of the
Commission shall establish the date for a public hearing before the entire
Commission, at which time the Commissioner’s report, together with such
evidence as may be presented by the complainant, will be considered. A majority
vote of the Commission on the issue of the existence of probable cause shall be
final.
      (3)   If the findings of the investigating Commissioner are sustained by
vote of the Commission following a public hearing thereon, the complaint shall
be ordered dismissed in accordance with §
31.04.
   (C)   (1)   If, after investigation, the Commissioner conducting same
determines there to be probable cause to believe the allegations contained in
the complaint are true, the investigating Commissioner shall attempt to
personally remediate the matter through conciliation, and reduce the terms of
the remediation to writing; said writing shall constitute a consent agreement,
upon execution thereof, by the parties thereto.
      (2)   Upon approval by a majority of the Commissioners, which approval
shall be evidenced by their signatures thereon, the consent agreement shall
have the same effect as a cease and desist order.
   (D)   If, after a finding of probable cause is entered the investigating
Commissioner is unable to successfully remediate the complaint into a consent
agreement, this fact shall be communicated to the Chairperson of the
Commission, who shall establish the date for a public hearing before the entire
Commission for the purpose of determining whether or not the allegations
contained in the complaint are true.
   (E)   The Commission shall serve upon the person charged by the complaint
with having engaged in the discriminatory practice, the respondent, a statement
of the charges made in the complaint and a notice of the time and place of the
hearing to be conducted.
      (1)   The date of the hearing shall not be less than 15 days, nor more
than 60 days, following service upon the respondent of the statement of
charges, unless this requirement shall be waived by the mutual consent of the
complainant, respondent, and the Commission.
      (2)   The respondent shall have the right to file with the Commission an
answer to the statement of charges, and each party shall have the right to
appear as a witness or otherwise at the hearing, to be represented by an
attorney, to present evidence, and to examine and cross-examine witnesses.
   (F)   A public hearing called by the Commission shall be conducted in an
informal manner and without recourse to technical common-law rules of evidence,
and such manner of proof and introduction of evidence shall be deemed
sufficient and shall govern the proof, decision, and administrative or judicial
review of all questions of fact.
   (G)   A public hearing conducted by the Commission shall be presided over by
one or more members of the Commission, or by a hearing officer appointed by the
Commission for this purpose. The presiding official shall have the power to
rule upon offers of proof and receipt of relevant oral or documentary evidence;
to take or cause depositions to be taken, to regulate the course of the hearing
and the conduct of the parties; to hold informal conferences for the settlement
or simplification of the issues by consent of the parties; and to dispose of
procedural motions and similar matters.
   (H)   The Commission shall cause a record of the public hearing to be made.
The transcript of testimony adduced and exhibits admitted, together with the
notice, or notices, of the hearing, all pleadings, exceptions, motions,
requests and papers filed, shall constitute the complete record of such hearing
and determination. Any party may obtain a copy of such record at his, her, or
their own expense.
   (I)   All final orders and determinations of the Commission shall be made by
a majority vote of the full Commission, as evidenced by their signatures
thereon.
(Ord. 74-I, passed 6-3-1974)
§ 31.06  JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Judicial review of actions of the county’s Human Rights Commission shall be
obtained in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 4-21.5-1-1 through 4-22-10-
5, as may hereafter be amended. If no proceedings for judicial review are
instituted within 15 days from the receipt of notice by a person upon whom an
order of the Commission is served, compliance with such order may be sought by
action in the county’s circuit court, upon showing that such person is subject
to the Commission’s jurisdiction and resides, or transacts business within, the
county.
(Ord. 74-I, passed 6-3-1974)
CHAPTER 32:  EMPLOYMENT AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Policies
   
32.01   Civil Rights Act of 1964 adopted by reference
   
32.02   Personnel Policies Handbook adopted by reference
   
32.03   Consolidation of Voluntary Benefit Program
   
32.04   Medical benefits; Total Health and Go365 Program
   
32.05   Deferred Compensation Plan
   
32.06   Business travel reimbursement policy
   
32.07   Overtime policy
   
32.08   Anti-nepotism policy
   
32.09   Civil Defense Agency merit system
Elected Officials
   
32.25   Conflict of interest policy
   
32.26   Credit and purchasing cards
Compensation
   
32.40   Solid Waste District
GENERAL POLICIES
§ 32.01  CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   In compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 2000d et seq., a Title VI Implementation Plan, and any and all amendments,
is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 32.02  PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policies of the county, being the county’s Personnel Handbook,
and any and all amendments, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2012-IV, passed 2-14-2012; Ord. 2013-VIII, passed 6-18-2013; Ord. 2019-3,
passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 2019-08, passed 4- -2019; Ord. 2021-23, passed 11-16-
2021)
§ 32.03  CONSOLIDATION OF VOLUNTARY BENEFIT PROGRAM.
   Effective January 1, 2019, the following carriers for voluntary workplace
benefits will be allowed to continue, or become, the vendors of choice for
county government.
   (A)   Colonial Life Insurance Company will provide benefits to include group
short-term disability, group accident, group cancer, and group critical care
coverages, with authorized pretax deductions based on employee voluntary
elections.
   (B)   Unum Life Insurance (parent company of Colonial) will provide the
benefits for group basic employee life offered to employees on behalf of the
county, as well as a group product for additional voluntary life insurance and
accidental death and disability (ADD), with authorized pretax deductions based
on employee voluntary elections.
   (C)   Fort Dearborn, formally known as Med Life, will no longer be employer-
supported and will be discontinued as the carrier for basic employee life, and,
as such, will no longer be continued with authorized pretax deductions based on
employee voluntary elections. Dearborn National will be discontinued as the
carrier offering in the past traditional not under a group product offering
voluntary life insurance and accidental death and disability (ADD), and as,
such will no longer be continued with authorized pretax deductions based on
employee voluntary elections.
   (D)   American Family Life Assurance Company (AFLAC) will be discontinued as
a carrier offering Traditional not under a group product offering short term
disability, cancer, critical illness, and accident coverages, and, as such,
will no longer be continued with authorized pretax deductions based on employee
voluntary elections.
   (E)   Voluntary workplace benefits are offered at the option of the
employer, are not required coverages under the Affordable Care Act (formally
known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and being Pub. Law No.
111-148, March 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 119), and are products in which the employee
pays the full cost of the product, and are not subsidized by the employer.
   (F)   Voluntary workplace benefits, if offered in a pre-tax status, are
required to be incorporated into the Employer/County § 125 Benefits Plan and
remain in full compliance with Employer/County § 125 Benefits Plan
requirements.
   (G)   Employees that wish to continue with carriers and products no longer
supported via pre-tax payroll deductions may continue to do so in a post-tax
pay-from-home format based on arrangements made with previous supported
carriers/providers.
   (H)   By offering these products to its employees, the county, as an
employer, is required to exercise fiduciary responsibility in such a manner as
to offer quality and current plan coverages to benefit eligible employees, and
ensure that duplicate coverages are not chosen and overlap with an employee’s
selection or need.
   (I)   The Board of Commissioners establishes that the intent of this section
will provide more beneficial and narrowed selection of quality voluntary
workplace benefits for employees; current products will be offered as a group
employer-sponsored plans which are fully Employer/County § 125 Benefits Plan
and pre-tax compliant plans.
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 32.04  MEDICAL BENEFITS; TOTAL HEALTH AND GO365 PROGRAM.
   (A)   While the Go365 Wellness Program will now be incorporated directly
into the Medical Plan and continues to remain voluntary, the following shall be
put in place for all benefit-eligible employees, elected officials, and
retirees obtaining medical benefits from the county in order to establish
methods to contribute to cost saving initiatives effective January 1, 2019, and
forward.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establish that Medical Plan
premiums paid to the county by employees, elected officials, and retirees
(described further as participants) will remain in place at the 2018 rates.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establish that participants on
the medical plan who may achieve registration on the Go365 Program, complete
the health risk assessment, and participate in a biomedical heath screening by
March 31, 2010, will not be charged a surcharge that will be effective as of
April 1, 2019.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establish that participants on
the medical plan that achieve silver status in the Go365 Program through June
30, 2019, will not be charged an additional surcharge that will be effective
July 1, 2019.
      (4)   The Board of Commissioners establish that participants on the
Medical Plan that do not reach the established goals in the Go365 Program by
March 31, 2019, and June 30, 2019, respectively, will experience a surcharge as
follows:
         (a)   Effective April 1, 2019, those participants who are enrolled in
the County Medical Plan that do not complete online registration on the Go365
portal, complete the online health risk assessment, and the biomedical
screening by March 31, 2019, a surcharge of $15 per participant with employee-
only medical coverage, and $25 for employee/spouse/child(ren)/family coverage
will be added to the bi-weekly cost of continued participation on the County
Medical Plan; and
         (b)   In addition to the foregoing, effective July 1, 2019 those
participants whom are enrolled in the County Medical Plan that have not
attained the overall status of silver in the Go365 Program, a surcharge of $30
per participant with employee-only medical coverage, and $50 for employee/
spouse/child(ren)/family coverage will be added to the bi-weekly cost of
continued participation on the County Medical Plan.
      (5)   Participants who fail to attain the level of silver by July 1, 2019
will pay the surcharge until the end of the third quarter of 2019, and any that
have met that goal will have his, her, or their surcharge lifted for the
remainder of the 2019 Plan year;
      (6)   The Board of Commissioners also establish that for new full-time
eligible participants hired after January 1, 2019, and beyond, those
participants will be granted the same amount of time (three and six full
calendar months after the effective date of medical insurance) to achieve the
same goals as listed above in the Go365 Wellness Program;
      (7)   The Board of Commissioners establish that the intent of the Total
Health Medical Plan and Go365 Wellness Program is to continue to build on the
health and wellness of Plan participants, to include family members. The
premium rates the county pays to Humana will be directly determined based on
participation by those on the Medical Plan. Participants on the Medical Plan
will need to be engaged in their health and wellness in order for the county to
avoid increased premiums that could go into effect with the 2020 Plan year. The
Board of Commissioners also verify that clue to the fully-insured option the
county, as an employer, does not receive, or has access to, any Plan
participant’s health/disability or genetic related information and will not be
shared with the county for any purpose by Humana outside of participation
levels by those on the Medical Plan.
   (B)   County employees’ spouses shall be ineligible for insurance coverage
by the county government if the spouse is eligible for coverage by his or her
employer.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 10-16-2018; Ord. 2013-XVI, passed 11-17-2013)
§ 32.05  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Deferred Compensation Plan, adopted by reference and made a part
of this section, be, and the same hereby is, selected by the Board of
Commissioners for the benefit of all employees of the county and as an
alternative plan to that established on June 1, 1987, which prior plan shall be
and remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   The President of the Board of Commissioners be, and be hereby is,
authorized and directed to executed the proposed contract with the variable
annuity life insurance company pertaining to the provision of administrative
services in connection with the alternative plan.
   (C)   The County Auditor is hereby designated to provide such local
administrative services as may be reasonable and necessary, from time to time,
in connection with the alternative plan.
(Ord. 2001-XVI, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 32.06  BUSINESS TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Employee pay for travel time shall be determined according to
applicable provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201
et seq.
   (B)   Business rental rates, terms, and conditions are adopted annually by
the Board of Commissioners and are hereby adopted by reference.
   (C)   Rental cars are not permitted by county policy and will not be
reimbursed from county funds. When using air/travel and subsequent cab,
shuttle, or train to a destination, an employee will be reimbursed with those
submitted receipts.
   (D)   A county employee, with the approval of his or her supervisor, may
elect to travel and be reimbursed for lodging the night before the scheduled
business meeting/education. However, the destination must be located 75 miles
or more from the City/County Building to reimburse for hotel and meal per diem
for that night. Travel expenses that require staying in a hotel will be paid at
the rate of $125 per night or the negotiated rate.
   (E)   Meals associated with overnight travel will be reimbursed to the
employee at a rate of $26 per day. There is no meal reimbursement or deduction
for daily (or non-overnight) business travel, per the Internal Revenue
Service’s rules and regulations. Employees will also not be reimbursed if meals
are provided by the meeting or seminar.
(Ord. 2013-VII, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 32.07  OVERTIME POLICY.
   (A)   All department heads/elected officials will identify salaried
employees meeting the new Federal Labor Standards Act criteria for overtime pay
coverage and provide a list of these employees to the County Auditor.
   (B)   All department heads/elected officials shall provide all identified
salaried employees covered by the new Federal Labor Standards Act with a copy
of this section.
   (C)   All identified salaried employees meeting the criteria will be
eligible to receive either overtime pay at one and one-half times his or her
hourly wage for hours worked over 40 hours, or compensatory time at a rate of
one and one-half times his or her hours over 40 hours.
   (D)   (1)   Hourly rates for salaried employees will be determined by taking
the employee’s salaried wage and dividing by 2,080 hours.
      (2)   For example, Employee A has a salary of $40,000 annually. The
employee’s hourly rate is $19.23 per hour based on the above calculation.
   (E)   All department heads/elected officials shall provide proper
documentation to the County Auditor authorizing employees to work more than 40
hours and proper time records indicating overtime hours. The County Auditor
will determine the format for his or her office in terms of proper
documentation.
(Ord. 2016-23, passed 11-15-2016)
§ 32.08  ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The county prohibits nepotism and considers it a major
conflict of interest in the work place. This policy is not intended to
discourage otherwise qualified individuals who are friends or relatives from
working in the county, as long as there is no direct line of supervision or
actual conflict of interest.
      (1)   Employees who marry or become members of the same household may
continue employment as long a there is not a direct line of supervision or
other appearance of impropriety.
      (2)   This anti-nepotism provision shall be subject to all anti-
discrimination requirements applicable to an individual or the county.
Employees witnessing nepotism or conflicts of interest under this policy shall
report such activity to the Board of Commissioners. No employee may be subject
to reprimand or disciplinary action for good faith reports under this policy.
   (B)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION.
         (a)   An elected officer or employee who is in a position to affect
the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment, including: making
decisions about work assignments; compensation; grievances; advancement; or
performance evaluation.
         (b)   The term does not include the responsibilities of the executive,
legislative body, or fiscal body of a county, as provided by law, to make
decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets, or personnel policies of the
county.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. The executive or a member of the executive body of the
county; a member of the legislative body of the county; or a member of the
fiscal body of the county.
      EMPLOYEE. An individual who is employed by a county on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis.
         (a)   The term does not include an individual who holds only an
elected office.
         (b)   The term includes an individual who is a party to an employment
contract with the county.
         (c)   Volunteer firefighters and precinct election officers are not
EMPLOYEES for the purpose of this section.
      RELATIVES.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A spouse;
            2.   A parent or stepparent;
            3.   A child or stepchild;
            4.   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; and
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in- law.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, an adopted child of an individual
is treated as a natural child of the individual.
         (c)   The terms BROTHER and SISTER include a brother or sister by the
half blood.
   (C)   Exceptions.
         (a)   This section does not apply to any employee hired before July 1,
2012, unless that person has a break in employment with the county. The
following are not considered a break in employment with the county:
            1.   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or
unpaid leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation; or
            2.   The individual’s employment with the county is terminated
followed by immediate reemployment by the county, without loss of payroll time.
         (b)   Active duty service in the armed forces of the United States
shall not constitute a break in employment if the service member returns to
seek the same position he or she held before the period of service.
         (c)   This section does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the county
begins.
         (d)   This section applies to an individual who:
            1.   Is employed by a county on the date the individual’s relative
begins serving a term of an elected office of the county; and
            2.   Is not exempt from the application of this section.
         (d)   An individual may remain employed by the county and maintain the
individual’s position or rank, even if the individual’s employment would
violate the prohibition set forth in this section. However, if a new position
would violate the prohibition of this policy, such an employee may not:
            1.   Be promoted to a position; or
            2.   Be promoted to a position that is not within the merit ranks,
in the case of an individual who is a member of a Merit Police Department or
Merit Fire Department.
   (D)   Prohibitions.
      (1)    Individuals who are relatives may not be employed by the county in
a position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative. The county, if the requirements of this section are
still satisfied and the elected official does not violate I.C. 35-44.1-1-4, may
enter into a contract, or renew a contract, for the procurement of goods and
services or a contract for public works with:
         (a)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official; or
         (b)   A business entity that is wholly, or partially, owned by a
relative of an elected official.
      (2)   The county may enter into a contract, or renew a contract, with an
individual or business entity described in this section only if:
         (a)   The elected official files with the Board of Commissioners a
full disclosure, which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the county;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the legislative body of the county and be
accepted by the legislative body in a public meeting of the county prior to
final action on the contract or purchase; and
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
               a.   The State Board of Accounts; and
               b.   The clerk of the circuit court in the county where the
county takes final action on the contract or purchase.
         (b)   Division (D)(2)(a) above shall be deemed satisfied only if the
appropriate agency of the county:
            1.   Makes a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered;
            2.   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected; and
            3.   The county satisfies any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12stateRef.
      (3)   An elected official shall also comply with the disclosure
provisions of I.C. 35-44-1-3, if applicable.
   (E)   Duties of Commissioners. Each elected officer of the county shall
annually certify, in writing, subject to the penalties for perjury, that the
officer has not violated this policy. An officer shall submit the certification
to the executive of the county not later than December 31 of each year.
   (F)   Conformity with state law. This section is implemented to conform with
I.C. 36-1-20.2-1, as currently in force, and as it may be modified in the
future, and its successor provisions.
      (1)   It shall be construed in order to conform with all requirements of
state law.
      (2)   Should the statutes be modified to require further prohibitions or
requirements, any such amendment shall be considered incorporated into this
policy by reference.
(Ord. 2012-VIII, passed 6-19-2012)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.09  CIVIL DEFENSE AGENCY MERIT SYSTEM.
   (A)   There is hereby established a merit system of personnel administration
for all employees of the Civil Defense Agency of the county to be serviced by
the State Personnel Division. The County Civil Defense Director is hereby
authorized and directed to enter unto such arrangements and agreements with the
State Department of Civil Defense and the State Personnel Division as may be
necessary to provide for a continuing Merit Program of personnel administration
for all County Civil Defense employees.
   (B)   Such Merit Program shall be serviced by the State Personnel Division
pursuant to the authority granted by the State Civil Service System, being I.C.
4-15, Chapter 2.2, and shall meet Federal Merit System Standards of the United
States Department of Defense, including the exemption of any positions from the
Merit Program as is recognized in these same Federal Standards.
   (C)   For the purposes of administering the Merit Program for all employees
of the civil defense agency, the County Civil Defense Director is hereby
considered and designated as the appointing officer.
(Ord. 66-4, passed 4-4-1966)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 32.25  CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   (A)   No officers or employees of the county shall neither solicit, nor
accept, gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from consultants,
potential consultants, or parties to sub-agreements, unless in accordance with
this conflict of interest policy.
      (1)   The aforementioned prohibition does not include gratuities, favors,
or anything of monetary value under $50, and excludes any and all contributions
to political campaigns.
      (2)   Any financial interest under $50 shall be considered not
substantial in accordance with the Code of Federal Regulations.
      (3)   This policy conforms to the standards set forth in the Code of
Federal Regulations and by the State Department of Transportation.
         (a)   A CONSULTANT is an individual or firm providing engineering and
design-related services to a party to a contract with a recipient or sub-
recipient of federal assistance.
         (b)   A PUBLIC OFFICIAL is defined as any elected officeholder and all
officials appointed to the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The dollar value or fair market value of $50 or below which any
financial interest or value of any gratuity is not substantial and may be
accepted per this section.
      (1)   The $50 threshold herein is per event. This policy limits annual
gratuity to $250.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners establishes and adopts the conflicts of
interest policy, which is attached hereto and made a part of this section.
      (3)   The fair market value of any gratuity that exceeds the $50 policy
threshold shall be repaid to the vendor that paid said gratuity. The fair
market value of any gratuity that exceeds the annual gratuity limit of $250
shall be repaid to the vendor that paid said gratuity.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 32.26  CREDIT AND PURCHASING CARDS.
   (A)   This section is adopted in compliance with the State Board of
Accounts’ Accounting and Uniform Compliance Guidelines Manual for Counties,
Chapter 1, authorizing certain department heads and elected officials to use
credit cards for certain purchases.
   (B)   The issuance and handling of said credit cards shall be handled by the
Board of Commissioners’ designee.
   (C)   It will be the responsibility of the elected official or department
head to safeguard the usage and security of said cards. If the elected official
or department head elect a designee to use the credit card, then the attached
log must be used to clearly indicate the physical transfer of said credit card
to that employee, and the related physical transfer back to the holder.
Designated card holders shall sign the attached statement pledging receipt and
responsibility.
   (D)   (1)   Payment of credit card charges shall be subject to the audit
requirements of accounts payable claim vouchers in conformity with I.C. 5-11-10
and I.C. 36-4-8stateRef, along with the compliance procedures of the State
Board of Accounts.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the card holder or the designee to
obtain proper itemized receipts other than the credit card receipt for item
charged. Budgeted funds must be available to utilize the cards.
   (E)   Credit card and purchasing card charges that do not meet state audit
requirements, including charges that include the imposition of state sales tax
for which the county is otherwise exempt, are the responsibility of the
employee authorizing the charge, as described further in division (G) below.
   (F)   (1)   The cards will only be used in the performance of county
business for supplies, certain hotel charges, restaurant charges, required
conference registration fees, or certain equipment purchases, as authorized by
the elected department head.
      (2)   Cards should be used for purchases requiring an immediate need.
Cards may not be used for restaurant, entertainment, or any personal charges by
the holder which would be reimbursed by a per diem or mileage reimbursement,
and such use would be subject to personnel action, as described in the county’s
Personnel Handbook, § 6, “Personal Conduct.”
   (G)   Each elected official or department head shall be responsible to
maintain control of his or her card(s) and purchases per his or her department
and/or board policies. Credit cards may not be used for the following
purchases:
      (1)   Any purchase for which there is not an existing appropriation at
the time of use;
      (2)   Cash advance;
      (3)   Personal or non-business purchases; or
      (4)   Alcoholic beverages.
   (H)   Upon receiving the credit card statement, via electronically or by
mail, elected officials or department heads must complete a claim voucher with
all proper receipts and submit to the County Auditor at least seven business
days before the due date. If interest charges or late fees are incurred as a
result of late submission of claim voucher to the County Auditor, it shall be
the financial responsibility of the card holder to pay those fees.
   (I)   The Board of Commissioners further authorize the annual fee that may
be assessed for said card may be paid by said Department or office.
   (J)   If the Purchasing Agent discontinues use of the card, for any reason,
the card shall be returned to the Board of Commissioners.
   (K)   The Purchasing Agent-authorized user shall report loss or theft of the
credit card to the Board of Commissioners’ office immediately upon discovery.
   (L)   The Board of Commissioners may revoke the credit card privileges of a
Purchasing Agent, or office whose Purchasing Agent or employees, violate the
terms of this section, and may take or recommend disciplinary action against
the violator.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-18-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
COMPENSATION
§ 32.40  SOLID WASTE DISTRICT.
   (A)   This section became effective March 1, 2019, beginning with payroll
period beginning February, 2019.
   (B)   The Solid Waste District Director shall provide the appropriate
payroll forms to the County Auditor’s office as needed or requested.
   (C)   The Solid Waste District shall reimburse the County Auditor’s or
County Treasurer’s office dollar for dollar for payroll, deductions, Public
Employees’ Retirement Fund (PERF), and the like at the end of each fiscal year,
or as otherwise agreed by the parties by resolution.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 2- -2019)
CHAPTER 33:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
33.01   Economic and Industrial Review Board
   
33.02   Building Authority
   
33.03   Redevelopment Authority
   
33.04   Redevelopment Commission
   
33.05   Department of Highway and Public Works
   
33.06   Department of Geographic Information Services
   
33.07   Public Defender Board
§ 33.01  ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRIAL REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. This section shall hereafter be known, cited, and referred to
as the “Economic and Industrial Development Ordinance of 1985.” The purpose of
this section is the creation of an Economic and Industrial Program; an Economic
and Industrial Review Board; and provide for the regulation and operation of
each.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction for this section and the functioning of
the Economic and Industrial Development Program and the Economic and Industrial
Review Board shall be within the boundaries of the county.
   (C)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Economic and Industrial Review Board.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
      BUSINESS. The retail or wholesale of goods and services, or other
standard definitions, to the Board or Board of Commissioners.
      COUNTY. Floyd County, Indiana.
      DEVELOPING BUSINESS OR INDUSTRY. An industry or business which is
expanding facilities within the county or a business or a industry initially
locating within the county.
      MANUFACTURING. The production of or the processing of raw, intermediate,
or finished products, and may also be defined by other standard definitions
acceptable to the Board and Board of Commissioners.
      PROGRAM. The Economic and Industrial Development Program.
   (D)   Economic and Industrial Development Program.
      (1)   The Economic and Industrial Development Program is hereby created,
and shall be utilized to financially assist developing businesses and
industries, as defined in division (C) above.
      (2)   Funds available under this Program shall be used for the
construction, remodeling, or purchase of assets which shall include: buildings;
land; site improvements; equipment; fixtures; and furnishings.
      (3)   Said funds shall be applied directly to said development or
purchases, or may be used to otherwise support such development or purchases in
any manner acceptable to the Board and Board of Commissioners, including, but
not limited to: construction of roads; sewer and water lines; or other
utilities.
      (3)   Financial assistance made to developing manufacturing industries
shall be in the form of loans, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the
Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   Applications for processing and administration of any financial
assistance under this Program shall be carried out in accordance with division
(E) below.
   (E)   Applications, processing of application, and administration of
financial assistance.
      (1)   Application for financial assistance shall be made to the Board on
forms provided by the Board, minimally to include the following:
         (a)   Applicant’s name, address, and phone number;
         (b)   Names of all involved parties, partners, and corporate officers;
         (c)   Number of existing employees and the number of new jobs to be
created as a result of the project;
         (d)   Expected additional annual payroll for project, specifying the
number of new jobs;
         (e)   Amount of loan requested;
         (f)   Amount of overall project cost; and
         (g)   Signature of applicant.
      (2)   In addition to the application form, the applicant shall submit the
following descriptive and supportive documentation:
         (a)   Project summary by specific category, including project item
cost and proposed sources of financing;
         (b)   Narrative statements, as follows:
            1.   Description of business (history, products, formation, and the
like);
            2.   Description of property;
            3.   Financial condition of business;
            4.   Description of security for loan;
            5.   Economic impact and other comments;
            6.   Public services required, or made necessary by, the project;
and
            7.   Pollution or environmental problems expected to be associated
with project.
         (c)   The following specific documentation shall be submitted to the
Board upon request, and at the applicants cost and expense:
            1.   Financial statements for prior years (balance sheets and
statements of profit and loss);
            2.   Copies of past tax returns;
            3.   Recent financial statements;
            4.   Articles of incorporation and by-laws; and
            5.   Any additional information or data specifically requested by
the Board.
      (3)   (a)   The Board shall, in its review of any application, adhere
strictly to any requirements of any state or federal agencies which have
jurisdiction over the source of funds being loaned.
         (b)   Specific attention and adherence must be given any provisions of
grant agreements regulating the source of funds. State or federal requirements
shall not be modified or waived without authorization from the state or federal
agency having jurisdiction.
      (4)   The Board may review a proposal informally prior to the submission
by the applicant of all documentation on a preliminary basis, but shall not
formulate any recommendation to the Board of Commissioners until full
documentation has been received and reviewed.
      (5)   The time period between the Board’s receipt of the application with
full documentation and the forwarding of a recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners shall not exceed 60 days, except that the Board of Commissioners
may waive this requirement upon request.
      (6)   At any time during the processing and review of an application, the
Board may confer with the Board of Commissioners concerning any matter
pertaining to same.
      (7)   During the processing and review of an application by the Board,
the following criteria and policies shall be strictly followed, unless waived
in a particular case, by the Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   The maximum loan which may be made shall be $250,000, and the
minimum shall be $50,000.
         (b)   The maximum amount that may be utilitized for administrative
purposes in the processing and administration of any loan shall be 5% of the
present value of the loan. Administration funds shall be paid from the Economic
and Industrial Development Fund, but shall not be a part of the loan being
requested.
         (c)   The minimum amount which must be available in the Economic and
Industrial Development Fund before a loan may be considered shall be 105% of
the present value of the loan being requested.
         (d)   Maximum participation by the county in any single project shall
be 50% of the total cost of the project.
         (e)   The maximum participation of the county in any single project
shall not exceed $7,500 per job to be created by the project.
         (f)   The maximum term of a loan, whether for real estate improvements
(including land purchase, building construction, renovation, or site
improvements) or for the purchase of equipment, fixtures, or furnishings, or
for a combination of real estate and personal property, shall be ten years;
provided, such term shall not, however, exceed the term of the loan made by the
applicant with a participating lender or the useful life of the collateral
pledged by the applicant as security for the loan.
         (g)   All loans shall be secured by either a mortgage or security
agreement as appropriate, or a combination of a mortgage and security
agreement. In cases with multiple sources of borrowed funds, the county may
subordinate its security position on the mortgage or security agreement if the
Board and Board of Commissioners deem the chances of recovery in case of
default not be inordinately jeopardized.
         (h)   An applicant shall have at least 10% equity in the project which
is not borrowed funds. Any form of equity financing may be utilized to meet
this requirement, but in no case shall this requirement be debt financed.
         (i)   The project must be determined by the Board and Board of
Commissioners to be feasible and reasonable, and the applicant shall produce
evidence of capacity to repay the loan.
      (8)   (a)   After the Board has fully processed and reviewed an
application and has submitted its recommendation to the Board of Commissioners,
the Board of Commissioners shall approve, reject, or modify the project.
         (b)   In the case of modification, the application shall be returned
to the Board for reconsideration and modification, and shall be returned to the
Board of Commissioners for final action.
         (c)   In the event of rejection, the decision is final, and the same
project shall not be resubmitted for review during the 12-month period after
the date of rejection.
         (d)   In the event of application approval, Chairperson of the Board
of Commissioners, the County Auditor, the County Attorney, the County Grant
Administrator, and the Chairperson of the Review Board shall be authorized to
execute all documents necessary to close the loan, and shall be further be
authorized to administer the loan disbursement and repayment in accordance with
division (G) below.
      (9)   Complete and separate records shall be kept on the history of all
approved projects from the inception of the application through the complete
repayment of the loan.
      (10)   Complete and separate records shall be kept for each source of
funds the county utilizes in the Program.
   (F)   Economic and Industrial Review Board.
      (1)   The Economic and Industrial Review Board is hereby created.
      (2)   The Board shall be composed of seven members and the membership
shall consist of persons with knowledge and experience in community affairs,
awareness of the social, economic, and industrial problems of the area, and an
interest in the development of the county. All terms shall be for a period of
four years, beginning January 1, and expiring December 31.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners shall fill vacancies which occur in the
membership of the Board.
      (4)   After appointment, a member shall not be removed except for good
and sufficient cause.
      (5)   A quorum of the Board shall consist of a majority of members.
      (6)   No business or action shall be considered authorized except by
affirmative vote of a majority of the Board.
      (7)   Any member of the Board having a personal financial interest in a
project shall be disqualified from participation of the Board in that project.
The Board minutes shall reflect the disqualification and state the reason for
the disqualification.
      (8)   The Board shall maintain minutes of its meetings and other records
as necessary.
      (9)   The Board shall submit an annual report to the Board of
Commissioners on the first Monday of each January.
      (10)   The Board shall meet at such times as may be necessary to conduct
its business. At the first meeting of each calendar year, the Board shall elect
from its membership a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and Secretary to serve in
those capacities until their successors are duly elected and qualified. Special
meetings may be called by the Board Chairperson, the Board of Commissioners, or
by at least three members of the Board upon notification of all members at
least three days prior to the meeting date.
      (11)   The Board may, as necessary to carry out its business, adopt such
forms, rules, and policies as are in conformity with this section, and not
contrary to law.
   (G)   Economic and Industrial Development Fund.
      (1)   The County Auditor, in accordance with the State Board of Accounts’
procedures and regulations, shall establish a fund and account for the receipt
and disbursement of funds for the Economic and Industrial Development Program.
      (2)   The Economic and Industrial Development Fund may receive monies
from state and federal programs designated for the purpose of the Economic and
Industrial Development Program, or monies received through repayment of loans
made in accordance with state and federal programs and this section.
         (a)   Any monies collected in such manner shall be received and
disbursed through the Economic and Industrial Development Fund.
         (b)   The Fund may also receive and disburse monies from other
sources, but shall not utilize general tax revenues or any other monies not
specifically authorized for use in accordance with the purposes of the Economic
and Development Program, as defined and described in this section.
      (3)   Monies shall not be disbursed from the Economic and Industrial
Development Fund without specific authorization by the Board of Commissioners
based on an application for assistance through the Economic and Industrial
Development Board, excepting only funds approved by resolution of the Board of
Commissioners to be spent in the county in the development of an industrial
park, or other similar industrial development facility; or the construction of
roads, sewers, water lines, or other utility services withing the county, to
include the use of monies from the Fund as a match for state grants for such
provisions.
      (4)   The Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners, or his or her
designee, is hereby designated as the approving authority for authorized
disbursements from the Economic and Industrial Development Fund, and shall sign
and submit claims to the County Auditor.
      (5)   Accounting for the Economic and Industrial Development Fund shall
be made separately for each approved application and shall be made separately
for each source of funds receipted into the Economic and Industrial Development
Fund. The Board shall make summaries of such accountings an integral part of
its annual report to the Board of Commissioners.
   (H)   Low and moderate income benefit. During application review, the
Economic Development Revolving Loan Fund Board and the Board of Commissioners
shall make a good faith effort to assure the maximum achievable benefit to low
and moderate income persons through job creation as a result of loan approval
activity under this Program.
   (I)   Local Displacement Plan. Pursuant to division (F) above and the
requirements of the State Department of Commerce, the following Local
Displacement Plan be, and the same hereby is, adopted and shall be applicable
to such Community Development Block Grant Programs as the county may, from time
to time, undertake.
      (1)   The county will consider for submission to the state under its
various Community Development Block Grant-Funded Programs only projects and
activities which will result  in the displacement of as  few persons or
businesses as necessary to meet state and local development goals and
objectives.
      (2)   The county will certify to the state, as part of its application
process,  that  it is seeking funds  for a project or activity which will
minimize displacement.
      (3)   The county will provide referral and reasonable moving assistance,
both  in terms of staff time and dollars,  to all persons involuntarily and
permanently displaced by any project or activity funded with Community
Development Block Grant funds.
      (4)   All persons and businesses directly displaced by the county as  the
result of a project or activity funded with Community Development Block Grant
funds will receive all assistance required under the Uniform Relocation
Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act of 1970, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4601
et seq. and implemented through 49 C.F.R. part 24,  as amended. The county will
provide benefits and relocation assistance to all persons and businesses
involuntarily and permanently displaced by the Community Development Block
Grant activity funded by the state in accordance with Appendix I of the grant
documents; provided they do not receive benefits as part of such action under
this division (I)(4).
      (5)   A copy of this division (I) shall be forwarded by the County
Auditor to the State Department of Commerce.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 2-4-1985; Ord. 85-2, passed 3-4-1985; Ord. 85-3, passed 4-
17-1985; Ord. 1995-5, passed 4-18-1995; Ord. 2005-X, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 33.02  BUILDING AUTHORITY.
   There is need for an authority to be known as the “New Albany/Floyd County
Building Authority,” a body corporate and politic, for the purpose of
financing, acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, and leasing to the
governmental units within the territorial boundaries of the county, lands or
buildings for public or governmental purposes, as provided by the Acts of the
General Assembly of the State in the year 1953, being Chapter 5 of the Acts of
1953, now cited as I.C. 36-9-13, County Building Authority.
(Res. 53-3, passed - -1953)
§ 33.03  REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14.5-7, the County Redevelopment Authority
(the “Redevelopment Authority”), is hereby created as a separate body corporate
and politic and as an instrumentality of county, for the purposes and to
exercise the powers set forth in the Act, or otherwise granted by law.
      (2)   The Redevelopment Authority shall be governed by a Board of
Directors consisting of three members, each of whom shall be a resident of the
county and appointed by the Board of Directors, acting as the executive of the
county, all as provided by law.
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Directors, the County Auditor, and any
other officer, employee, or agent of the county is hereby authorized and
directed, for, and on behalf of, the county, to execute and deliver any
certificate, instrument, or other document, and to take any action as such
person determines to be necessary or appropriate to accomplish the purposes and
carry out the intent of this section, such determination to be conclusively
evidenced by such person’s execution of such certificate, instrument, or other
document, or such person’s taking of such action.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 33.04  REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Redevelopment of the county
(the “Department of Redevelopment”), which shall be entitled to exercise all
the rights, powers, privileges, and immunities accorded to such Department by
the I.C. 36-7-14 (“the Act”).
   (B)   Such Department of Redevelopment shall be under the control of a board
of five voting members and one non-voting member to be known as the county’s
Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   There is hereby created a Board to be known as the Redevelopment
Commission. Three of said Commissioners shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners, and two shall be appointed by the County Council. In addition,
the Board of Commissioners shall appoint one non-voting member from the
membership of a school board of a school corporation located wholly, or partly,
within the county.
      (1)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve for one year from
January 1 after his or her appointment and until his or her successor is
appointed and has qualified, except that the original Commissioners shall serve
from the date of their appointment until January 1 in the second year after
their appointment.
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the same
manner as the original Commissioner, and the successor shall serve for the
remainder of the vacated term.
      (3)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her
duties, shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by
law, to be endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall
be promptly filed with the Auditor of the county.
      (4)   (a)   Each Redevelopment Comm- issioner, before beginning his or
her duties, shall execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to be
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   The bond must be in a penal sum of $15,000 and must be
conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and
the accounting for all monies and property that may come into his or her hands
or under his or her control. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the
Redevelopment District.
   (D)   Such Commissioners shall have the qualifications prescribed by the
laws of the state, as from time to time amended, and shall qualify as therein
provided; and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers and assume the
duties and obligations conferred and imposed by said Act, including, but not
limited to, the following qualifications:
      (1)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age and
must be a resident of the county. If a Commissioner ceases to be qualified
under this section, he or she forfeits his or her office.
      (2)   No Redevelopment Commissioner of the county shall receive a salary;
but such Redevelopment Commissioners are entitled to reimbursement for expenses
necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
      (3)   A Redevelopment Commissioner may not have a pecuniary interest in
any contract, employment, purchase, or sale made under the provisions of this
section and the Act. However, any property required for redevelopment purposes
in which a Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be acquired, but only by
gift or condemnation. A transaction made in violation of this section is void.
   (E)   The County Auditor charged by law for the performance of duties in
respect to the funds and accounts of the county, shall perform the same duties
with respect to the funds and accounts of the Department of Redevelopment,
except as otherwise provided for in the Act.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners allows the Redevelopment Commission to
enter into discussions with the New Albany Redevelopment Commission regarding
any and all matters dealing with the territory served under Ordinance 2000-XI
and Ordinance 2005-XX.
(Ord. 2013-XII, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2013-XVIII, passed 12-17-2013)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 33.05  DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAY AND PUBLIC WORKS.
   The Board of Commissioners establishes the County Department of Highway and
Public Works, and the Department shall report to the Board of Commissioners
regarding all activities associated with the county’s infrastructure systems,
including, but not limited to: roads; bridges; storm water; right-of-way
maintenance; engineering; geographic information; planning; and administrative
functions.
(Ord. 2016-13, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 33.06  DEPARTMENT OF GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SERVICES.
   (A)   Creation and purpose. The Board of Commissioners creates the
Department of Geographic Information Services. This purpose of this section is
to also define the scope and services to be provided by the Department.
   (B)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DATA INTEGRATION PLAN. A plan:
         (a)   To integrate geographic information services (GIS) data and
framework data developed and maintained by different units of government into a
countywide coverage of framework data; and
         (b)   That includes details for:
            1.   An inventory of existing data;
            2.   Stakeholder data require- ments;
            3.   Identification of data stewards;
            4.   Data standards and schema, costs, work flow, data transfer
mechanisms, update frequency, and maintenance; and
            5.   Identification of appropriate data sharing policies and
mechanisms to facilitate data exchange.
      ELECTRONIC MAP. The copyrighted data provided by a public agency from an
electronic geographic information system.
      FRAMEWORK DATA. Common electronic map information for a geographic area,
including the following:
         (a)   Digital orthophotography;
         (b)   Digital cadaster;
         (c)   Public land survey system;
         (d)   Elevation;
         (e)   Geodetic control;
         (f)   Governmental boundary units;
         (g)   Water features;
         (h)   Addresses;
         (i)   Streets;
         (j)   Other social-economic data and shape files;
         (k)   Public infrastructure and public works systems;
         (l)   Election boundaries; and
         (m)   Any other electronic mapping that is not explicitly described as
being exempt from this section.
      FUND. The establishment of the Department of Geographic Information
Services Fund to collect all fees, giants, gifts, or other money associated
with the GIS services and GIS products of the Department. The FUND shall be
established as a non-reverting FUND.
      GIS. Geographic Information Systems.
      GIS WORKING GROUP. An advisory committee of offices that provide data.
The director of GIS shall serve as a permanent chair of the GROUP. The GROUP
shall be composed of the following offices to provide non-binding
recommendations to the Department and the Board of Commissioners:
         (a)   County Surveyor, or designatee;
         (b)   County Treasurer, or designatee;
         (c)   County Assessor, or designatee;
         (d)   County Auditor, or designatee;
         (e)   One County Commissioner, or designatee;
         (f)   County Director of Operations, or designatee; and
         (g)   Director of GIS.
   (C)   Responsibilities of Department. The Department of Geographic
Information Services shall be under the authority of the Board of
Commissioners.
      (1)   The Director of GIS shall report to the County Director of
Operations. All employees of the Department are under the Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   The Department of Geographic Information Services has the following
responsibilities:
         (a)   Functions as the primary County GIS point of contact for
communications and discussions with any and all federal, state, and local
governmental agencies, general public, and vendors regarding GIS services and
products;
         (b)   Prepares and submits a County Data Integration Plan for approval
by the GIS Working Group and the Board of Commissioners;
         (c)   Is the Administrator for:
            1.   All county standards and policies relating to GIS;
            2.   Implementation of the County Data Integration Plan;
            3.   Budgetary control for all fees collected for GIS services and
products;
            4.   Publish an annual public report on GIS activities and services
for Commissioners and GIS Working Group;
            5.   Shall provide monthly reports regarding plats and numbering to
Surveyor;
            6.   Shall provide staffing for the quarterly meetings of the GIS
Working Group; and
            7.   All other duties required in the development and operation of
the county’s GIS system.
         (d)   Facilitate GIS data cooperation between various stakeholders
through the GIS Working Group. The Working Group membership can be amended by a
favorable recommendation of the Group to the Board of Commissioners. The Board
of Commissioners shall have the final vote on the expansion or alteration of
any rules of procedure or membership in relationship to the GIS Working Group;
and
         (e)   Provide technical support for the public on matters of GIS.
   (D)   Establishment of Fund. The Department of Geographic Information
Services Fund shall be established.
      (1)   The Fund shall be used to collect and distribute all fees
associated with GIS services and products. The Board of Commissioners have
final approval on all budget and appropriations matters. The Fund shall be a
non-reverting fund.
      (2)   The Fund shall fund the following purposes:
         (a)   All administration duties associated with the services and
products associated with GIS data and framework data;
         (b)   Capital outlays for computer equipment and programming
associated with GIS data and framework data storage;
         (c)   Assistance for maintenance and operation of framework data for
other county offices; and
         (d)   Any projects that are deemed to support and further the usage of
GIS services and products for the benefit of the public good.
   (E)   Dissemination of GIS data and framework data. From funds collected,
the Department of Geographic Information Services and in consultation of the
GIS working group shall do the following:
      (1)   Ensure that there are adequate depositories of all GIS data and
framework data obtained;
      (2)   Acquire, publish, store, and distribute GIS data and framework data
through a public access system;
      (3)   Integrate GIS data and framework data developed and maintained by
offices into a county base map;
      (4)   Maintain a historic archive of GIS data, framework data, and
electronic maps;
      (5)   Provide assistance to government agencies regarding public access
to GIS and framework data so that information is available to the public while
is confidentiality protected for certain data from electronic maps;
      (6)   Develop and maintain countywide framework data layers associated
with countywide base map or electronic map; and
      (7)   Publish and distribute GIS data standards and County Data
Integration Plan adopted under this section.
   (F)   Designation of responsibility for civil plats.
      (1)   I.C. 6-1.1-5-1 allows the Board of Commissioners to designate the
County Surveyor as the office responsible to provide oversight regarding civil
plats within the county.
      (2)   (a)   The Board of Commissioners hereby designate the County
Surveyor responsible for providing the oversight of such activity.
         (b)   The Board of Commissioners also will provide the services of the
Department of GIS to conduct the day to day operation and maintenance of such
records.
         (c)   The Board agrees to develop a memorandum of understanding in
relationship to the platting activities with the County Surveyor’s office. This
memorandum will outline the duties and responsibilities of the Department of
GIS and County Surveyor, the reporting procedures required, and the resolution
process of outstanding issues regarding platting.
(Ord. 2015-IV, passed 3-3-2015)
§ 33.07  PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD.
   (A)   Board established. The county’s Public Defender Board is hereby
established for the purpose of providing legal representation to indigent
defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile, probation violation, extradition,
child support, civil commitments, and other proceedings where the right to
counsel has been established by law.
   (B)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Public Defender Board created by this section.
      INDIGENT DEFENDANT/INDIGENT RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal
representation and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal
representation at public expense.
      LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
         (a)   The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/respondent
in a matter originating in a state court in county involving:
            1.   A person charged with a crime, as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-75
(a);
            2.   An act of delinquency, as defined in I.C. 31-37-1 or 31-37-2;
            3.   A violation of a condition of probation established as a part
of a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
            4.   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
            5.   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C.
31-16;
            6.   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
            7.   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
         (b)   LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection with all
pre-trial, trial, and appellate proceedings in which an indigent defendant/
respondent has a right to counsel.
   (C)   Board membership and appointment. The Board shall consist of three
members; one member appointed by the Board of Commissioners, and two members
from different political parties appointed by majority vote of the judges who
exercise felony or juvenile jurisdiction.
      (1)   The initial terms for each of the three members shall extend for
three years from the date of their appointment.
      (2)   After the initial term of each member, appointments shall be for
three-year terms. Members of the Board shall serve until a successor is
appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
      (3)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of
the Board: a City, Town, or County Attorney; a law enforcement officer; a
judge; a court employee; or a member of the office of the Prosecuting Attorney.
      (4)   Board members shall serve without pay, but may receive
reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the members’ duties, if
approved by the Board.
      (5)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be
approved by a majority of the members present.
      (6)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly, or upon call of its
Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
      (7)   The Board shall elect its Chairperson by a majority vote of the
Board.
   (D)   Powers and duties of the Board. The Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   Prepare a Comprehensive Plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-
5. The Comprehensive Plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
         (a)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time;
         (b)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney, or attorneys, through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible; and
         (c)   Professional development, continuing legal education, and
malpractice coverage for public defenders.
      (2)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent
legal representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support, and criminal contempt, and
other matters pursuant to the Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of
indigency and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation
provided at public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-40-6 and 33-40-7;
      (4)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Agency and monitor the
expenditures of funds; and
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public and
annual report on the operation of the Agency.
   (E)   Authority of judges. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
abridge the authority of any judge of a state court of this county from
appointing counsel for any person entitled thereto under the United States
Constitution or the State Constitution.
(Ord. 96-8, passed 11-19-1996)
CHAPTER 34:  PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
County Sheriff’s Department
   
34.01   Police Reserves
   
34.02   Bargaining Committee
   
34.03   Sheriff’s hiring authority; salary
   
34.04   Building security
   
34.05   Retired officer’s permission to carry firearms
   
34.06   Health insurance benefits paid to families of officers who die in the
line of duty
   
34.07   Deferred Compensation Plan
   
34.08   Records in collaboration with pharmacies
   
34.09   Sheriff to incur credit card service charges
Fees Associated with County Sheriff’s Department
   
34.20   Fingerprinting fee
   
34.21   Photo fee
   
34.22   Sheriff’s Sale Program; service fee
   
34.23   Sexual or violent offenders; fees
   
34.24   Accident reports; criminal background checks
County Corrections
   
34.35   County Corrections Bargaining Committee
   
34.36   Inmate processing fee
   
34.37   Prisoner reimbursement; incarceration
   
34.38   Medical co-payment policy
   
34.39   Jail project; jurisdiction
   
34.40   Public work participation
Medical Services and Related Organizations
   
34.55   Emergency Medical Services Advisory Board
   
34.56   County Health Department; fees
   
34.57   Hospital Sale Proceeds Legacy Foundation
 
   
34.99   Penalty
COUNTY SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01  POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners, under, and pursuant to, the authority
delegated by the General Assembly of the State, 1975 Acts, Pub. Law No. 205,
and I.C. 19-1-17.5, including any amendments thereto, do hereby adopt this
section establishing the County Sheriff’s Police Reserves.
      (2)   It is hereby intended that Acts 1975,  Pub. Law No. 205, and I.C.
19-1-17.5 be hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof.
   (B)   Establishment. There is hereby created a position within the County
Sheriff’s Police Force to be known as the County Sheriff’s Police Reserves,
hereinafter referred to as “Police Reserves.”
      (1)   The number of Police Reserves shall not exceed 75 persons.
      (2)   Police Reserves shall not be members of the regular County
Sheriff’s Police Force, but Police Reserves shall have the same police powers
as such regular members, except as such police powers may be limited by rules
adopted and promulgated by the County Sheriff’s Merit Board.
      (3)   Service of Police Reserves shall be subject to those rules and
regulations as may be hereafter adopted and promulgated by the County Sheriff’s
Merit Board.
   (C)   Appointment.
      (1)   Police Reserves shall be appointed by that authority which
presently is, or may hereafter be, vested with the power to appoint regular
members of the County Sheriff’s Department.
      (2)   No Police Reserve shall be appointed until the individual has
completed such Training Program and probationary period as may be hereafter
established pursuant to division (B)(3) above.
   (D)   Benefits and compensation.
      (1)   Police Reserves shall not participate in any Pension Program which
is provided for regular members of the County Sheriff’s Department, and shall
not receive compensation, except as may otherwise be provided in this section.
      (2)   (a)   To the extent of appropriations by the County Council, Police
Reserves may receive an allowance, payable semi-annually, for the purpose of
defraying uniform cleaning costs.
         (b)    Police Reserves may receive such allowance; provided that at
the time of such semi-annual disbursement, a Police Reserve must be a current,
scheduled member of the County Sheriff’s Police Reserves and must have
completed six months of duty.
(Ord. 79-I-1979, passed 3-5-1979)
§ 34.02  BARGAINING COMMITTEE.
   (A)   (1)   It is desired and deemed necessary to recognize the Fraternal
Order of Police, Wyandotte Lodge 171, as the sole and exclusive bargaining
agent for the purpose of establishing salaries, wages, hours, and conditions of
employment for all merit county police officers without, however, impasse
arbitration.
      (2)   The County Sheriff and the Chief Deputy are excluded from this
section. The bargaining unit of the Fraternal Order of Police, Wyandotte Lodge
171, shall contain only members who are merit employees of the county’s Police
Department.
   (B)   (1)   This section may be revoked by either the Board of Commissioners
or the County Council for any reason at any regularly scheduled meeting of the
Board of Commissioners, or the County Council.
      (2)   However, the revoking body shall provide 30 days’ written notice of
its intention to revoke this section to the Board of Commissioners, the County
Council, the County Sheriff; the Fraternal Order of Police, Wyandotte Lodge
171, and the County Sheriff’s Merit Board.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon passage, and that
two copies of this section shall be forwarded to the County Auditor and to the
State Secretary.
(Ord. 96-XII, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 34.03  SHERIFF’S HIRING AUTHORITY; SALARY.
   (A)   The elected office holder of the county shall have the authority to
hire a Chief Deputy and negotiate a salary of no more than 75% of the salary of
the elected Sheriff’s salary.
   (B)   The elected office holder may also exempt the Chief Deputy from the
terms of the county’s Personnel Handbook as it relates to benefits such as
personal days, sick days, and vacations days; however, all terms of the
policies as it relates to local, state, and federal employment laws shall
apply.
   (C)   All compensation shall fall within the approved budget of the elected
office holder.
(Ord. 2014-XV, passed 12-9-2014)
§ 34.04  BUILDING SECURITY.
   (A)   Employees that work in the New Albany City/County Building will be
governed by the New Albany City/County Building Security policy, and be granted
employee access as defined in the policy.
   (B)   The financial responsibility will we be as follows:
      (1)   The County Sheriff and the New Albany Building Authority will enter
into a contract for security services provided on a yearly basis. The County
Sheriff shall retain full authority over his or her employees and services
provided according to contract; and
      (2)   The County Sheriff shall be responsible for supplying and
maintaining appropriate security measures and/or equipment.
   (C)   The County Sheriff may collect fees for private entity access cards in
the amount of $50 per year. Private entity access cards are defined as private
parties, such as private firm attorneys, vendors, and other private parties who
may apply for access cards with the County Sheriff by application.
   (D)   The approval of the access card system will be at the discretion of
the County Sheriff. The funds collected for these private entity access cards
will be placed in a non-reverting fund to which it may be used in the following
manner:
      (1)   Repairs, improvements, or implementation of existing or new
security equipment;
      (2)   Yearly fees for the security systems maintenance agreements; and/or
      (3)   Staff uniform expenses or training related to court security.
   (E)   The Floyd/New Albany City/County Building Security policy can be
changed by resolution by the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon passage, and two
copies of this section will be forwarded to the following legislative bodies:
New Albany/Floyd County Building Authority, County Council, New Albany City
Council, and County Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 2011-VI, passed 3-15-2011)
§ 34.05  RETIRED OFFICER’S PERMISSION TO CARRY FIREARMS.
   (A)   Former and retired sheriffs of the county are hereby allowed to retain
their police handguns, and reasonable replacements for their police handguns,
for their personal use and to carry without further permits or other
applications.
   (B)   This section does not operate to allow any person to carry a firearm
if they are otherwise prohibited from carrying the same by any federal, state,
or other law.
(Ord. VII, passed 5-20-2014)
§ 34.06  HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS PAID TO FAMILIES OF OFFICERS WHO DIE IN THE
LINE OF DUTY.
   The county shall offer to provide and shall pay the entire monthly health
insurance premiums for all eligible surviving spouses and children, as defined
by I.C. 36-8-10-16.5, as amended, and to age 26 for dependents pursuant to the
Affordable Care Act (formally known as the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act and being Pub. Law No. 111-148, March 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 119), of
members of the dependent’s Pension Benefit Program who die in the line of duty.
However, such payment shall be made for those surviving spouses and children
who elect to participate in the county’s Health Insurance Plan. The offer to
provide and pay for health insurance coverage shall remain open for as long as
there is a surviving spouse, or as long as a natural child, stepchild, or
adopted child of the member is eligible for coverage.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 34.07  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners, meeting in a regularly scheduled session,
hereby establish a Deferred Compensation Plan for the County Sheriff’s
Department to allow for the voluntary participation of employees of such County
Sheriff’s Department; and the County Sheriff’s Department will utilize the
Deferred Compensation Plan established by County Sheriff’s Departments in the
state, known as the State Sheriff’s 457(b) Plan, and participate in the group
trust arrangement established by that Deferred Compensation Plan; and the
Sheriff is authorized to sign the Adoption Agreement to participate in the
Deferred Compensation Plan.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners hereby authorize the County Auditor
to make deductions from the pay of employees of the County Sheriff’s Department
who voluntarily participate in the Deferred Compensation Plan and to deposit
the deferrals in the trust.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners also authorize the Committee made up of
representatives of the County Sheriff’s Departments participating in the Plan
(as determined by participating County Sheriff’s Departments) to make such
other arrangements as are necessary to implement the Plan. It is understood
that, other than the incidental expenses related to collecting the employees’
deferrals and other minor administrative matter, there is to be no cost to, or
contribution by, the county to this Plan.
(Ord. IV, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 34.08  RECORDS IN COLLABORATION WITH PHARMACIES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s office is authorized to establish and implement
an electronic record keeping system of the transactions involving the
distribution of pseudoephedrine, phenylpropanolamine, and ephedrine products by
pharmacists or registered pharmacy technicians, which must be recorded and
maintained pursuant to current law. Said system shall monitor data in
compliance with current federal and state law and regulations.
   (B)   All pharmacies in the county that choose to sell over-the-counter
products containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, and phenyiopropanolamine are
required to participate in said electronic record keeping system within 30 days
of this section becoming effective, or be subject to a monthly fine.
   (C)   Participating pharmacies must participate in the electronic record
keeping system by using the system to directly enter their transaction data on
these products containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, and phenylopropanolamine
at the point of sale.
   (D)   It is hereby found and determined that the immediate passage of this
section is necessary to efficiently and effectively deal with the monitoring of
transactions involving the distribution of said  products by pharmacies, and to
preserve the public health, safety, and welfare. An emergency is hereby
declared to exist, and this section shall by in full force and effect from, and
after, its publication in the official newspaper(s).
(Ord. 2009-II, passed 3-3-2009)  Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.09  SHERIFF TO INCUR CREDIT CARD SERVICE CHARGES.
   The County Sheriff be, and be hereby is, authorized to utilize a credit card
for the purchase of motor fuel, motor oil, and related automotive materials and
supplies, or Departmental purposes; and is further authorized to incur and pay
reasonable and necessary service fees and charges assessed by the vendor in
connection with the use of such credit card.
(Ord. 1994-XI, passed 12-6-1994)
FEES ASSOCIATED WITH COUNTY SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT
§ 34.20  FINGERPRINTING FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created and imposed a fingerprinting fee of $8, to be
collected by the County Sheriff from each member of the general public
requesting to be fingerprinted.
   (B)   All fees collected by the County Sheriff pursuant to this section be
deposited in the Sheriff’s Equipment Fund, which Fund and revenue shall be used
to defray expenses incurred, or to be incurred, by the County Sheriff in
providing fingerprinting services to the public, and for such other purposes
for which said Fund was created.
(Ord. 2010-XIX, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 34.21  PHOTO FEE.
   There is hereby created and imposed a photo fee of $5, to be collected by
the County Sheriff for each copy of an investigative photograph taken by a
member of the County Sheriff’s Department and provided to a person, firm,
corporation, or entity requesting the same. All fees collected by the County
Sheriff pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the Sheriff’s Equipment
Fund, which Fund and revenue shall be used to defray expenses incurred, or to
be incurred, by the County Sheriff in providing copies of photographs to the
public, and for such other purposes for which said Fund was created.
(Ord. 2003-XXX, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 34.22  SHERIFF’S SALE PROGRAM; SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   The Sheriff’s Sale Program is approved and established to provide the
procedure for the Sheriff to contract for those administrative, technical,
clerical, and related services that are reasonable and appropriate for the
County Sheriff to effectively prepare for, manage, and implement foreclosure
sales.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a Fund to be
titled the “Sheriff’s Sale Fund,” into which all collections of foreclosure
costs fees, as hereafter defined, shall be deposited, and from which the
appropriate expenses of the Sheriff’s Sale Program shall be appropriated and
paid.
      (2)   The Sheriff’s Sale Fund shall be a non-reverting fund to be used
only for the purposes set forth herein and shall not revert to the county’s
General Fund at year end.
   (C)   The County Sheriff is authorized to negotiate and execute a contract
with a provider to obtain such administrative, technical, clerical, and related
services (the “Sheriff’s Sale Services”) in order for the County Sheriff to
conduct the Sheriff’s Sale Program.
   (D)   (1)   The Sheriff’s Sale Services contract shall provide for the
delivery of such services by a contractor (the “contractor”) in compliance with
all applicable statutory provisions for the conduct of foreclosure sale
proceedings and the Sheriff’s Sale Program.
      (2)   The Sheriff’s Sale Services contract shall also provide for the
payment of a fee to the contractor for such services, not to exceed the amount
in division (H) below for each case number scheduled in the Sheriff’s Sale
Program.
   (E)   The Sheriff is hereby authorized to charge a fee of the amount in
division (H) below per case number of property in the Sheriff’s Sale Program
(the foreclosure costs fees), and to deposit such foreclosure costs fees
collected by, or on behalf of, the County Sheriff in the Sheriff’s Sale Fund.
   (F)   The foreclosure costs fee shall be payable at the time of filing the
praecipe under I.C. 32-29-7-3(h), which shall be a charge for the Sheriff’s
Sale in addition to other statutory costs and fees.
   (G)   The Sheriff’s Sale Program contract shall provide for a complete and
accurate accounting of all Sheriff’s Sale Program proceeds and compliance with
any reporting or record requirements as set forth by the State Board of
Accounts.
   (H)   The estimated costs below are estimates of the County Sheriff for the
administration of foreclosure sales as required by I.C. 32-29-7. The fees are
authorized by I.C. 32-29-7-3stateRef:
      (1)   Contractual Services: $200 per case number;
      (2)   Employee time defined;
      (3)   Employee cost per, definition in division (H)(2) above; and
      (4)   Other defined costs (e.g., service of notice, costs of paper,
envelopers, and phone calls).
(Ord. 2009-X, passed - -)
§ 34.23  SEXUAL OR VIOLENT OFFENDERS; FEES.
   (A)   Establishment of Sex or Violent Offender Administration Fund. The
county’s Sex or Violent Offender Administration Fund is hereby established. The
purpose of the Fund is to defray the expense of administering or ensuring
compliance with the laws concerning the State Sex and Violent Offender
Registry.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   The annual fee for sex and violent offenders registering in the
county shall be $50. Payment of the fee shall be made upon the offender’s
initial registration in the county and subsequently on or before each annual
registration date.
      (2)   A fee of $5 shall be charged and collected each time a sex or
violent offender registers an address change with the County Sheriff’s office.
   (C)   Payment of fees. All fees collected under this section shall be
collected by the County Sheriff’s office when a sex or violent offender
registers with the County Sheriff’s office.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   All fees collected under this section by the County Sheriff’s shall
be transferred to the County Auditor in a timely manner.
      (2)   On a monthly basis, the County Auditor shall:
         (a)   Deposit 90% of any fees collected under this section in the
county’s Sex and Violent Administration Fund; and
         (b)   Transfer 10% of any fees collected under this section to the
state for deposit in the state’s Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund
under I.C. 11-8-8-21.
   (E)   Administration of Fund. A county fiscal body shall appropriate money
from the county’s Sex Offender Registry Fund to offset or defray any
administrative costs that may occur while handling the state law regarding sex
offenders.
(Ord. 2009-VI, passed 8-18-2009)
§ 34.24  ACCIDENT REPORTS; CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   The fees charged and collected for copies of accident reports shall be $8
per accident report, and the fees charged and collected for criminal background
checks shall be $8 per individual criminal background check.
(Ord. 2010-XV, passed 7-1-2010)
COUNTY CORRECTIONS
§ 34.35  COUNTY CORRECTIONS BARGAINING COMMITTEE.
   (A)   It is the desire of, and deemed necessary to, recognize the elected
members of the County Corrections Bargaining Committee (the “Bargaining
Committee”), as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the purpose of
establishing salaries, wages, hours, and conditions of employment for all
corrections employees without, however, impasse arbitration.
      (1)   The Sheriff and his or her Jail Commanders are excluded from this
section. The Bargaining Committee shall include three corrections officers who
have been selected by a majority vote of all corrections officers to serve as
representatives in negotiations or grievance issues relating to this contract
or any future contract with the employer.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint one member to the
Bargaining Committee, as the County Council shall appoint three members to the
Bargaining Committee.
      (3)   The members of the Bargaining Committee shall serve in this
capacity until such time as their successors are duly elected. The Bargaining
Committee shall set regular meeting dates after the organizational meeting each
year.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon passage, and two
copies of this section shall be forwarded to the County Auditor and the
Secretary of State.
(Ord. 2015-17, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 34.36  INMATE PROCESSING FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created and imposed an inmate processing fee of $25,
to be collected by the County Sheriff from each detainee admitted to the county
jail, with the exception of any detainee which the County Sheriff shall
determine to be indigent and unable to pay same.
   (B)   The processing fee shall be collected from an inmate prior to his or
her release from the facility, and shall be deducted from the inmate’s
commissary account, or withheld from such other funds or monies as may be in
the possession of the inmate at the time of his or her admission to the
facility.
   (C)   All fees collected by the County Sheriff pursuant to this section
shall be deposited in a non-reverting fund to be known as the Inmate Processing
Fund, which Fund shall be used to defray expenses incurred, or to be incurred,
by the County Sheriff in the purchase of equipment, vehicles, and related
property for use in the operation of the county jail or the Department.
   (D)   All expenditures from the Inmate Processing Fund shall be subject to
appropriation by the County Council upon petition by the County Sheriff or the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2002-VI, passed 5-8-2002)
§ 34.37  PRISONER REIMBURSEMENT; INCARCERATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-13-15, the county elects to implement the
provisions of the statute, effective January 1, 2010.
   (B)   The amount of reimbursement shall be as described in I.C. 36-2-13-15
(d) or as set by the court in I.C. 35-50-5-4(c).
   (C)   The County Council hereby fixes a daily per diem amount, payable by
the prisoners of $35.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners hereby directs the County Sheriff to
collect and account for the prisoner reimbursement payments pursuant to the
statute.
      (2)   If the County Sheriff fails to collect such amounts, the County
Attorney is authorized to begin legal proceedings or take other action to
collect such amounts.
   (E)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners and County Council hereby establish a
separate, non-reverting fund for the placement of the funds collected pursuant
to the ordinance, to be designated as the county’s Prisoner Reimbursement Fund,
as established in I.C. 36-2-13-16.
      (2)   Such Fund may be used for any purposes now or in the future
permitted by law, which purposes include the operation, remodeling,
maintenance, repair, enlarging, or equipment of, or for, the county jail.
      (3)   Money from the Fund cannot be used to augment the salaries of the
Sheriff or other jail personnel.
(Ord. IX, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 34.38  MEDICAL CO-PAYMENT POLICY.
   (A)   This section does not apply to a person confined in the county jail
who:
      (1)   Maintains a policy of insurance from a private company covering:
         (a)   Medical care;
         (b)   Dental care;
         (c)   Eye care; or
         (d)   Other healthcare-related services, including jail nurse.
      (2)   Is willing to pay for the person’s own medical care; or
      (3)   Is committed to the Department of Corrections.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, a person confined to a
county jail may be required to make a co-payment in an amount of not more than
$7 for each prescription handled, and not more than $15 for each provision of
any of the following services (if provided):
      (1)   Medical care;
      (2)   Dental care;
      (3)   Eye care; or
      (4)   Other healthcare-related services, including jail nurse visits.
   (C)   A person confined to a county jail is not required to make a co-
payment under division (B) above if:
      (1)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary account
or trust account at the time the service is provided;
      (2)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary account
or trust account within 60 days after the service is provided;
      (3)   The service is provided in an emergency;
      (4)   The service is provided as a result of an injury received in the
county jail; or
      (5)   The service is provided at the request of the Sheriff or Jail
Administrator.
   (D)   The County Sheriff shall:
      (1)   Collect the co-payment funds described in division (B) above;
      (2)   Deposit those funds into a separate account and forward those funds
to the County Auditor on a monthly basis; and
      (3)   Maintain records of all transactions, and make those records
available to the County Auditor upon request.
   (E)   The County Auditor shall deposit all funds received into the county’s
Medical Care for Inmates Fund.
   (F)   The county’s Medical Care for Inmates Fund shall be used as determined
and appropriated by the County Sheriff.
   (G)   (1)   This section shall not become effective until it shall have been
advertised pursuant to I.C. 5-3-1 once each week for two consecutive weeks in
two newspapers published in the county.
      (2)   Further, this section shall not become effective until it shall
have been posted in a conspicuous place within the confines of the county jail/
correctional facility so as to be available for inmate inspection for a
continuous period of at least 30 days.
(Ord. 2007-XV, passed 10-2-2007)
§ 34.39  JAIL PROJECT; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners determined that the county has sole
jurisdiction to approve, fund, contract, and manage all aspects of the jail
project at the City/County Building.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby approve and direct the contractors
for the jail project to proceed with the construction pursuant to their
contracts.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners directs the County Building Department to
issue any permits deemed necessary for the jail project.
(Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 34.40  PUBLIC WORK PARTICIPATION.
   The Board of Commissioners adopt a resolution ordering able-bodied prisoners
of the county jail to participate on public work; and that when prisoners are
taken from the jail to work, they shall be released no earlier than 7:00 a.m.,
and returned to jail no later than 5:00 p.m. and turned over to the County
Sheriff, or his or her deputy, to be locked in the jail.
(Res. 53-4, passed - -1953)
MEDICAL SERVICES AND RELATED ORGANIZATIONS
§ 34.55  EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The county’s Emergency Medical Services Advisory Board (EMS Advisory
Board) shall be created.
   (B)   The purpose of the EMS Advisory Board shall be to review, advise, and
make policy and operational and/or technical recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners related to improving the delivery of Emergency Medical Services.
   (C)   The EMS Advisory Board will evaluate emergency medical service
operations for the county with the primary purpose of assuring quality pre-
hospital emergency medical care for the citizens for the unincorporated the
county. The EMS Advisory Board members will serve at the pleasure of the Board
of Commissioners.
   (D)   The EMS Advisory Board shall consist of nine voting members, to
include one member of the Board of Commissioners, one member of the County
Council; three current residents of the county who demonstrate an in-depth
knowledge of EMS; one County Fire Department representative; one 911 dispatch
representative; the EMS Medical Director; and one hospital representative
(preferably the Emergency Room Manager).
   (E)   The EMS Advisory Board will operate under the attached Emergency
Medical Services Advisory Board By-laws.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 34.56  COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT; FEES.
   The fees and charges set forth on the fee schedules incorporated herein be,
and the same hereby are, adopted and established as the fees and charged to be
levied and imposed for the various services to be rendered and performed by the
County Health Department, with such fees and charges, upon collection and
receipt, to be deposited by the Department, as required by law.
   (A)   Vital records.
 
Service            Fee
Birth certificates $10 per copy
Death certificates $10 per copy
Genealogy search   $10 per name
 
   (B)   Public health.
 
Service                             Fee
Administration fee for all
immunizations provided by the State $2
Department of Health
Adult Hepatis B                     Determined by the yearly cost of vaccine
All other adult vaccines            Determined by the yearly cost of vaccine
Flu vaccine                         Determined by the yearly cost of vaccine
Pneumonia vaccine                   Determined by the yearly cost of vaccine
PPD (T.B. Test)                     $4
 
   (C)   Prenatal and family planning services. The charge for prenatal service
and family planning services shall be a percentage of the actual cost thereof,
as determined by reference to the Federal Poverty Guidelines, as said actual
cost and guidelines may be determined from time to time.
   (D)   Other charges.
 
Service                   Fee
Correction amendment      $20
Court-ordered name change $20
Home birth                $50
 
(Ord. XVII, passed 8-21-2001; Ord. 2009-XI, passed 10-6-2009; Ord. 2019-19,
passed 8-6-2019)
§ 34.57  HOSPITAL SALE PROCEEDS LEGACY FOUNDATION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners determines that it is of public benefit and
use to establish a charitable nonprofit foundation for the deposit of a portion
of the hospital proceeds. The name of the foundation shall be the Legacy
Foundation.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners adopt I.C. 36-1-14-5 as the controlling
statutory provisions under which the Legacy Foundation will be established.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners approve and adopt the Legacy Foundation
Document as the basic charter for the Hospital Sale Proceeds Legacy Foundation,
as set forth in division (E) below.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners and the County Council shall designate, by
resolution on an annual basis, the amount of hospital proceeds that are
deposited to the Legacy Foundation.
   (E)   This section shall govern the conduct of the affairs of the county’s
Legacy Foundation (the “Foundation”), if, and when, any money or property is
transferred to the Foundation in accordance with I.C. 36-1-14-5.
      (1)   Governing law. The affairs of the Foundation shall be conducted
through a Board of Trustees, as required by I.C. 36-1-14-5, and as the same may
be hereafter amended in a manner made applicable to the Foundation, and
pursuant to the terms of this section, as in effect from time to time.
      (2)   Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall be comprised of the
following five members:
         (a)   One member of the County Council, approved by the County Council
and appointed by the President of the County Council;
         (b)   One member of the county executive, approved by the county
executive and appointed by the president of the county executive;
         (c)   One individual who has at least five years of experience as a
certified public accountant, a financial adviser, a banker, or an investment
manager, approved by the County Council and appointed by the President of the
County Council;
         (d)   One individual who has at least five years of experience as a
certified public accountant, a financial adviser, a banker, or an investment
manager, approved by the county executive and appointed by the president of the
county executive; and
         (e)   The County Treasurer.
      (3)   Meetings of the Trustees. Meetings of the Trustees required by I.C.
36-1-14-5(j)(8) shall be held in conjunction with the regular meetings of the
fiscal body held in February, May, August, and November, unless the Trustees,
acting in accordance with I.C. 36-1-14-5(j)(8), shall determine a different
date or place. A special meeting of the Board of Trustees may be called by the
President or by request of three or more Trustees.
      (4)   Election. The Board of Trustees shall annually elect officers for
the offices of Vice Chairperson and Secretary. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-14-5(g),
the County Treasurer shall serve as the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees.
      (5)   Term.
         (a)   The term of each elected trustee shall coincide with the
individual’s term of office as a qualified member of the county’s legislative
body, fiscal body, and Treasurer.
         (b)   Non-elected members of the Board of Trustees shall be appointed
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-14-5(f)(3) and I.C. 36-1-14-5(f)(4) during the annual
organizational meetings respectively held by the county’s legislative body and
fiscal body.
      (6)   Notice of meetings. Notice of meetings shall be provided in
accordance with the State Open Door Law pursuant to I.C. 5-14.5-1 et seq.
      (7)   Quorum. A quorum of the Board of Trustees at any regular or called
meeting shall be a majority of the duly qualified members of the Board of
Trustees.
      (8)   Decisions of the County Council and Board of Commissioners. The
County Council and the Board of Commissioners shall perform the following
actions:
         (a)   Formulate an investment policy that ensures that money held by
the foundation is invested in accordance with I.C. 30-2-12;
         (b)   Establish a policy pursuant to I.C. 36-1-14-5(i)(2) concerning
distributions of income and principal from the foundation. “Policy” shall be
broadly interpreted to include use of the funds as jointly determined by
resolution of the Board of Commissioners and the County Council;
         (c)   Determine the amount of the proceeds from the sale of the county
hospital that shall be transferred by the County Fiscal Officer to the Legacy
Foundation;
         (d)   Establish a policy pursuant to I.C. 36-1-14-5(j)(4) et seq. to
set the annual rate of spending from the foundation; and
         (e)   If the County Council and county executive wish to access an
amount from the principal amount of the donation that is more than the amount
available under clause I.C. 36-1-14-5(j)(6)(A), but not more than 50% of the
principal amount of the donation, the Board shall proceed as follows:
            1.   Five of the seven members of the County Council and a majority
vote of the county executive at a joint meeting of the County Council and the
county executive must vote in favor of accessing the principal amount of the
donation.
            2.   The votes of the County Council and the county executive at
the joint meeting must occur on two occasions, as provided in item division (E)
(7)(e)3. below;
            3.   The votes described in divisions (E)(8)(e)1. and (E)(8)(e)2.
above must occur on two occasions that are at least one year apart, but not
more than two years apart; and
            4.   The votes described in divisions (E)(8)(e)1. and (E)(8)(e)2.
above must be based on identical language in an ordinance that sets forth the
approved use of the funds accessed from the principal amount of the donation.
If the language in an ordinance under this clause is different from the
language used in the first vote, the process to vote on accessing the principal
amount of the donation must start over.
      (9)   Decisions of the Trustees.
         (a)   The Board of Trustees shall contract with a financial
institution eligible to receive public funds of a political subdivision under
I.C. 5-13-8-1 to assist the Board of Trustees in its investment program.
Additional decisions requiring the approval of the Board of Trustees of the
Foundation shall be made in a manner herein-below described in this division
(E)(9).
         (b)   The approval by the Trustees of any expenditure or transfer of
money described in a majority vote of the Trustees shall also, within the vote
of the Trustees, require the affirmative vote of the Trustees representing each
of the following:
            1.   The fiscal body; and
            2.   The legislative body.
      (10)   Principal deposit. The principal amount of the Foundation
(“principal deposit”) should be comprised of the donation by the county, and
donations, gifts, or money received from private sources. The principal of the
Foundation shall be deposited with an investment firm under an investment
agreement. The principal deposit may only be spent pursuant to the requirements
of I.C. 36-1-14-5(j)(4), I.C. 36-1-14-5(j)(5), and I.C. 36-1-14-5(j)(6).
      (11)   Investment income. The investment income may be held by a trust
company, deposited with a bank, or deposited with the County Treasurer.
         (a)   Deposits with the County Treasurer will be held in a restricted
fund, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   Investment income may only be used for the purposes of the
county. Investment income may be pledged to expenditures approved by the Board
of Trustees, including debt service on obligations issued by the county.
         (c)   Expenditures of investment income shall be limited to investment
earnings up to 5% of the beginning balance of the principal deposit at the
beginning of the calendar year. Further, funds shall be distributed as directed
by resolution of the Board of Commissioners and the County Council by
resolution pursuant to division 8(E)(8)(b) above excepting those funds
restricted by contractual obligation of the Board of Trustees as described in
I.C. 36-1-14-5(h).
      (12)   Investment firm. The investment firm shall designate a trust
company for the deposit and security of the principal deposit of the Foundation
funds and any balance of investment income that has not been expended or
transferred to the county. The selection of the investment firm shall be based
on the stability of the institution, handling of similarly sized trust
deposits, fees, and experience.
      (13)   Investments.
         (a)   The Foundation shall have the right to retain all, or any part
of, any securities or property acquired by it in whatever manner, and to
invest, sell, and reinvest any securities or property held by it, as determined
by the Board of Trustees, except to the extent that responsibility for making
such determination is delegated to a committee of the Board of Trustees or to a
third party investment advisor.
         (b)   Investments may be made in any legal or marketable securities
after the adoption of an investment policy statement, as provided by I.C. 36-1-
14-5(m).
      (14)   Investment advisor.
         (a)   The Board of Trustees shall contract with a competent investment
advisor to advise the Board of Trustees as to investment strategies and
procedures.
         (b)   The selection of the investment advisor shall be made after
solicitation through a request for proposals submitted to three or more
entities conducting services of an investment advisor service based upon those
services to similarly sized trusts.
      (15)   Contracts.
         (a)   The Board of Trustees may authorize any officer or agent to
enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of,
and on behalf of, the Foundation, and such authority may be general or confined
to a specific instance; and unless so authorized by the Board of Trustees, no
officer, agent, or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the
Foundation by any contract or engagement, or to pledge its credit, or render it
liable pecuniary for any purpose or to any amount.
         (b)   The Board shall comply with the procedures described in I.C. 36-
1-21 respecting contracting with the Foundation.
      (16)   Compliance with tax laws. The following provisions shall apply to
the conduct of the affairs of the Foundation.
         (a)   The Foundation shall be operated exclusively for charitable
nonprofit purposes.
         (b)   No part of the net earnings of this Foundation shall inure to
the benefit of any private person or any other individual in contravention of
I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), as may be in effect from time to time. Within the meaning
of I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), no substantial part of the Foundation’s activities shall
consist of carrying on propaganda, or otherwise attempting to influence
legislation.
         (c)   The Foundation shall not participate in, or intervene in, any
political campaign on behalf of, or in opposition to, any candidate for public
office (including the publishing or distributing of statements).
Notwithstanding any other provision hereof to the contrary:
            1.   No power given to the Trustees, or accorded to Trustees
generally, shall be construed to enable the Trustees or any other person to
purchase, exchange, or otherwise deal with, or dispose of, the Foundation
property, other than in furtherance of its charitable purposes as set forth in
Section 4(a) of the state statute, for less than an adequate consideration in
money, or money’s worth, or shall permit the Trustees or any contributor to the
Foundation to borrow any Foundation property, directly or indirectly;
            2.   No person other than the Trustees shall have, or exercise, the
power to direct the voting of any stock or other securities of the Foundation;
to control the investment of the Foundation, either by directing investments or
reinvestments, or by vetoing proposed investments or reinvestments; or to
reacquire or exchange any Foundation property by substituting other property of
an equivalent value; and
            3.   The Trustees shall not use the Foundation property to pay
premiums on insurance on the life of any Trustee, or any contributor to the
Foundation, or for his or her spouse; or to provide support or maintenance for
any person whom any Trustee or any contributor to the Foundation is legally
obligated to support.
         (d)   Any restriction or declaration required by the code to be
contained in the organizing documents of a Foundation exempt from tax under
I.R.C. § 501(c)(3) that does not appear herein is hereby incorporated by
reference.
         (e)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
section, in the event and if for any reason the Foundation is classified as a
private foundation, as that term is defined in I.R.C. § 509(a), then, and in
such event, and in order to comply with I.R.C. § 508(e) and for so long as the
Foundation may be deemed to be a private foundation, the powers and activities
of the Foundation in accomplishing the foregoing purposes shall be specifically
subject to the following requirements, restrictions, and limitations:
            1.   The Foundation shall engage in no act of self-dealing as
defined in I.R.C. § 4941(d);
            2.   The Foundation shall distribute so much of its income, and, if
necessary, its principal, for each taxable year, at such time, and in such
manner, as to prevent the imposition of the tax for failure to make minimum
distributions imposed by I.R.C. § 4942;
            3.   The Foundation shall retain no excess business holdings as
defined in I.R.C. § 4943(c);
            4.   The Foundation shall make no jeopardizing investment that will
subject it to tax under I.R.C. § 4944; and
            5.   The Foundation shall make no taxable expenditures as defined
in I.R.C. § 4945(d).
(Ord. 2018-8, passed - -)
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Those pharmacies who fail to participate in the electronic record
keeping system, as described in §
34.08, shall be subject to a fine of $500 per month until in compliance.
(Ord. 2009-II, passed 3-3-2009)
CHAPTER 35:  EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
Section
   
35.01   Department of Emergency Management
   
35.02   Emergency Medical Services Advisory Board
   
35.03   Local travel advisories
§ 35.01  DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   The provisions of I.C. 10-14-3-1 et seq., as the same pertain to the
creation and organization of an Emergency Management Agency and Advisory
Council for the county are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein
as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2003-XIII, passed 4-15-2003; Ord. 2003-XXVI, passed 8-19-2003; Ord. 2013-
V, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 35.02  EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The county’s Emergency Medical Services Advisory Board (EMS Advisory
Board) shall be created.
   (B)   The purpose of the EMS Advisory Board shall be to review, advise, and
make policy and operational/technical recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners related to improving the delivery of Emergency Medical Services
in the county.
   (C)   The EMS Advisory Board will evaluate Emergency Medical Services
operations for the county with the primary purpose of assuring quality pre-
hospital emergency medical care for the citizens for the unincorporated county.
   (D)   The EMS Advisory Board members will serve at the pleasure of the Board
of Commissioners.
   (E)   The EMS Advisory Board shall consist of nine voting members to include
one member of the Board of Commissioners; one member of the County Council;
three current residents of the county who demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of
EMS; one County Fire Department representative; one 911 dispatch
representative; the EMS medical director and one hospital representative
(preferably the Emergency Room Manager).
   (F)   The EMS Advisory Board will operate under the attached Emergency
Medical Services Advisory Board by-laws.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 35.03  LOCAL TRAVEL ADVISORIES.
   (A)   I.C. 10-14-3-29.5(c) states a warning-level travel advisory may be
issued only after a local disaster emergency is declared.
   (B)   It is ordered, adjudged, and decreed that if a local disaster
emergency is declared under I.C. 10-14-3-29, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29.5(a)
(3), a “warning” is issued, and travel may be restricted to emergency
management personnel only. During a warning-level local travel advisory,
individuals are directed to:
      (1)   Refrain from all travel;
      (2)   Comply with necessary emergency measures;
      (3)   Cooperate with public officials and disaster services forces in
executing emergency operations plans; and
      (4)   Obey and comply with the lawful directions of properly identified
officers.
   (C)   Further and more specific restrictions, including parking
restrictions, may be included in a warning-level local travel advisory.
(Ord. 2012-II, passed - -)
CHAPTER 36:  FINANCE AND REVENUE; FEES
Section
Collection of Payment and Fees
   
36.01   Powers to budget and authorize funds
   
36.02   County Clerk; credit/debit cards; mailing fees
   
36.03   County Recorder; recording a document
   
36.04   County Treasurer; various charges for services
   
36.05   County Auditor; schedule of fees
   
36.06   Real property endorsement
   
36.07   Payment of membership dues
   
36.08   Purchasing Agents; small purchases
   
36.09   Mobile home permit
Fire Protection District
   
36.20   Establishment; purpose
   
36.21   Board of Trustees
   
36.22   Taxing District
   
36.23   Bonds
   
36.24   Annual budget
   
36.25   No duplicate tax levies
   
36.26   Indebtedness
   
36.27   Purchase of firefighting equipment
   
36.28   Payment of firefighters’ healthcare expenses
COLLECTION OF PAYMENT AND FEES
§ 36.01  POWERS TO BUDGET AND AUTHORIZE FUNDS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to budget, and the County
Council is authorized to appropriate funds from, the General Fund, or from
other Funds to provide membership for the county and for the elected and
appointed officials and members of the county’s boards, councils, departments,
or agencies in local, regional, state, and national associations of a civic,
educational, or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the betterment
and improvement of county government operations; and
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners is further authorized to budget, and the
County Council is further authorized to appropriate, funds to pay the expenses
of duly authorised representatives to attend the meetings and functions of
organizations to which the county belongs.
(Ord. 82-4, passed 8-21-1982)
§ 36.02  COUNTY CLERK; CREDIT/DEBIT CARDS; MAILING FEES.
   (A)   The clerk of the circuit court is authorized to accept a credit card
or debit card for any required payment to the clerk of the circuit court. The
clerk of the circuit court is authorized and directed to charge and collect
fees for the use of credit cards or debit cards pursuant agency service
agreement hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   (1)   The County Clerk be, and hereby is, authorized to collect, in
advance, the following fees for services rendered and expenses incurred in the
mailing of child support payments to the custodial parent:
         (a)   For mailing one check per week for 52 weeks: $20;
         (b)   For mailing one check biweekly for 52 weeks: $10; and
         (c)   For mailing one check monthly for 12 months: $5.
      (2)   All sums collected under, and pursuant to, this section shall be
remitted by the County Clerk for deposit in the General Fund of the county and
appropriation or other disposition by order of the County Council.
   (C)   (1)   The collection of bond payments in the form of guaranteed funds
via credit card payments will provide fee reimbursements from the vendor to the
County Sheriff and County Clerk for services provided by contract.
      (2)   The funds shall be deposited to the funds listed by agreement of
the County Sheriff and County Clerk. In regards to the County Sheriff, the
funds will be deposited to the Inmate Trust Fund. In regards to the County
Clerk, the funds will be deposited to the Perpetuation Fund.
(Ord. 1992-8, passed 12-15-1992; Ord. XIII, passed 6-19-2007; Ord. 2015-VIII,
passed 7-7-2015)
§ 36.03  COUNTY RECORDER; RECORDING A DOCUMENT.
   A supplemental recording fee in the amount of $3 per document be, and the
same hereby is, authorized pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-2-7-10(b)(11),
with the same to be paid at the time of recording and deposited by the County
Recorder in the Recorder’s Records Perpetuation Fund established pursuant to
I.C. 36-2-7-10(c).
(Ord. 1997-VI, passed 5-6-1997)
§ 36.04  COUNTY TREASURER; VARIOUS CHARGES FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-1 through I.C. 36-1-3-9stateRef, the Board of
Commissioners establishes the following charges to be made by the County
Treasurer:
      (1)   For all duplicate tax bills: $1 each; and
      (2)   For all checks which are returned to the Treasurer by the bank upon
which they are issued regardless of the reason for such return: $10 each.
   (B)   All funds received by the treasurer for the charges made herein shall
be deposited in the county’s General Fund.
(Ord. 87-1, passed 7-18-1987)
§ 36.05  COUNTY AUDITOR; SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-8(6), the County Auditor be, and he or she
hereby is, authorized and directed to levy and collect a fee of $0.25 per page
for copies of records and documents furnished and provided to members of the
public. The fees collected pursuant to this division (A) shall be remitted at
least monthly to the County Treasurer for deposit in the General Fund.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby directs and orders the County
Auditor to pay duly submitted claims pursuant to I.C. 36-2-6-4.5 for the
aforementioned entities on the following payment schedules:
      (1)   The Solid Waste District shall be paid its total 100% of its annual
appropriation based on the Board of Commissioners’ authority over the EDIT
Funds pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-7-12.7 no later January 10 of each year;
      (2)   Life Springs Healthcare Systems (a community mental health
provider), pursuant to I.C. 12-29-2 and prescribed in Ord. 2015-IX of TSO Table
VI of this code of ordinances, shall be paid its annual appropriation as
follows:
         (a)   Fifty percent of the appropriation shall be paid no later than
June 1 of each year; and
         (b)   Fifty percent of the appropriation shall be paid no later than
December 1 of each year.
      (3)   The New Albany/Floyd County Animal Control and Shelter Board shall
be paid its total annual appropriation as follows: A quarterly payment of 25%
of the annual appropriation shall be paid no later than January 15, April 15,
July 15, and October 15 of each year;
      (4)   The New Albany/Floyd County Building Authority shall follow the
payment schedule per its lease agreement dated March 28, 1959, which states
semi-annual payments on January 1 and July 1;
      (5)   Rauch Industries Incorporated (a community intellectual
disabilities provider), pursuant to I.C. 12-29-1 and prescribed in Ord. 2015-IX
of TSO Table VI of this code of ordinances, shall be paid its annual
appropriation as follows:
         (a)   Fifty percent of the appropriation shall be paid no later than
June 1 of each year; and
         (b)   Fifty percent of the appropriation shall be paid no later than
December 1 of each year.
      (6)   The New Albany Redevelopment Commission shall follow the payment
schedule per the interlocal agreement for bond payments for the YMCA, defined
in County Council Ord. 2006-2A, which states payment to be no later than
January 10 of each year.
(Ord. 1993-7, passed 12-7-1993; Ord. 2016-3, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 36.06  REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT.
   The County Auditor be, and he or she hereby is, authorized to collect a fee
of $10 for each real property endorsement that she may make, from time to time,
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-2-9-18(d) or other applicable statute,
rule, or regulation. The fees collected by the Auditor pursuant to this section
shall be deposited in a non-reverting fund, and, subject to appropriation by
the County Council, shall be used solely for the purpose of maintaining plat
books as permitted by the provisions of I.C. 36-2-9-18.
(Ord. 2002-IV, passed 5-8-2002)
§ 36.07  PAYMENT OF MEMBERSHIP DUES.
   From time to time, and by an appropriation by the County Council, public
funds may be used for payment of membership dues assessed by professional
organizations and/or local, regional, state, or national associations of a
civic, educational, or governmental nature, together with those reasonable
expenses related to membership and participation therein.
(Ord. 2000-VI, passed 8-1-2000)
§ 36.08  PURCHASING AGENTS; SMALL PURCHASES.
   (A)   Designation. Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-22 (“the Act”), the
Board of Commissioners is hereby designated the Purchasing Agency for the
county.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners hereby designates the following persons
as Purchasing Agents to make small purchases of $50,000 or less, pursuant to
the provisions of I.C. 5-22-8 et seq., for, and on behalf of, the county;
         (a)   Each elected county official;
         (b)   Each circuit, superior, and county court judge;
         (c)   The County Highway Super- intendent;
         (d)   The chairperson, president, or presiding official of each county
board, commission, council, department, or other governmental body of the
county, or the designee of such chairperson, president, or presiding official;
and
         (e)   Such county employees as are designated in writing from time to
time.
      (2)   All purchases made pursuant to the delegation set forth in division
(A)(1) above shall be governed by the rules and policies adopted by the Board
of Commissioners, as permitted by I.C. 5-22-3-3, and the Act.
   (B)   Small purchase rules. The rules listed in divisions (C) through (N)
below, to be known as the “small purchase rules” for the county, are applicable
to all Purchasing Agents authorized by ordinance, or otherwise, to make
purchases of supplies for $25,000 or less, but do not apply to such purchases
made by the Purchasing Agency, unless expressly provided by the Act.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. With respect to any other word or term used in these rules,
those definitions set forth in I.C. 5-22-2 et seq. shall apply.
      ACT. The provisions of I.C. 5-22 et seq.
      FISCAL BODY. The County Council.
      GOVERNMENTAL BODY. The county.
      PERSON. An association, business, committee, corporation, fiduciary,
individual, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company,
partnership, sole proprietorship, trust, or another legal entity, organization,
or group of individuals.
      PURCHASE. To buy, procure, rent, lease, or otherwise acquire.
      PURCHASING AGENCY. The Board of Commissioners.
      PURCHASING AGENT. Those persons authorized by ordinance of the Board of
Commissioners to make purchases for, and on behalf of, the county.
      SMALL PURCHASE. A purchase of supplies expected by the Purchasing Agent
to be less than $25,000.
      SPECIFICATIONS. A description of the physical or functional
characteristics or the nature of a supply. All SPECIFICATIONS shall promote
overall economy and encourage competition.
      SUPPLIES. Includes equipment, goods, and materials, but does not include
an interest in real property or services.
   (D)   Appropriation. No purchase shall be made by a Purchasing Agent except
upon sufficient appropriation by the fiscal body.
   (E)   Artificial division. Purchases may not be artificially divided so as
to constitute small purchases or to avoid the solicitation of quotations.
   (F)   Department of Correction products. Except as otherwise provided by
I.C. 5-22-11 et seq., a Purchasing Agent must purchase supplies produced or
manufactured by the Department of Correction as listed in the department’s
catalog, unless the supplies cannot be furnished in a timely manner.
   (G)   Rehabilitation center products. Except as otherwise provided by I.C.
5-22-12 et seq., a Purchasing Agent shall purchase articles produced by the
state rehabilitation center for the blind and visually impaired under the same
conditions as purchases are to be made from the Department of Corrections.
   (H)   United States. A Purchasing Agent shall purchase supplies manufactured
in the United States, unless the governmental body determines that an exemption
exists under the provisions of I.C. 5-22-15-21.
   (I)   Quotations. Purchases of supplies with an estimated cost of less than
$5,000 may be made by the Purchasing Agent on the open market without
soliciting bids, quotations, or proposals.
      (1)   Purchasing Agents desiring to purchase supplies estimated to cost
more than $5,000, but less than $25,000, shall:
         (a)   Solicit quotations from at least three persons known to deal in
the lines or classes of supplies to be purchased;
         (b)   Shall mail an invitation to each such person at least seven days
before the time fixed for receiving quotes;
         (c)   Subject to the right of the Purchasing Agent to reject all
quotes, such agent shall award a contract to the lowest responsible and
responsive offeror; and
         (d)   If the Purchasing Agent does not receive a quotation from a
responsible and responsive offeror, the Purchasing Agent may proceed to
purchase the supplies without further bids, quotes, or proposals.
      (2)   All invitations to quote shall include those specifications
necessary to adequately describe the supply to be purchased, and all quotations
received shall be opened publicly, in the presence of one or more witnesses, at
the time and place specified in the invitation, and shall be made available for
public inspection.
   (J)   Special purchases. A Purchasing Agent may make a purchase of supplies
for an amount in excess of $5,000 without receiving bids, quotes, or proposals
if the purchase would qualify as a special purchase under I.C. 5-22-10 et seq.
which provisions shall govern all such special purchases.
   (K)   Excess purchases. Subject to appropriation by the fiscal body, a
Purchasing Agent may make a purchase of supplies for an amount in excess of
$25,000, if the purchase is made from a person who has a contract with a state
or federal agency, and the person’s contract with such agency requires the
person to make the supplies available to political subdivisions.
   (L)   Agency contracts. If the Purchasing Agency hereafter elects to
contract for the purchase of supplies for use by all county offices and
agencies, or if such contracts exist as of the date of adoption of these rules,
all Purchasing Agents shall purchase from the person who has the contract with
the Purchasing Agency.
   (M)   Administration. Except as otherwise provided by these rules or another
law, ordinance, or regulation, contract and purchasing records are public
records subject to public inspection; provided, quotations solicited by a
Purchasing Agent shall not be disclosed or made available for public inspection
prior to public opening.
      (1)   Copies of all contract documents shall be maintained by the
Purchasing Agency for the longer of five years or the term of the contract.
      (2)   Contract documents with respect to special purchases shall be
governed by this rule and the provisions of I.C. 5-22-10 et seq.
(Ord. 1998-V, passed 6-16-1998; Ord. 1998-VI, passed 6-16-1998)
§ 36.09  MOBILE HOME PERMIT.
   (A)   Establishment of fee. A fee of $10 shall be charged by the County
Treasurer to any person or entity filing a mobile home permit, State Form 7878
(R3/10-13), or any revision of this form. A fee of $1 shall be charged to
process duplicate personal property tax or real estate tax bills.
   (B)   Establishment of Treasurer Non-Reverting Fund. The County Treasurer
Non-Reverting Fund (the “Treasurer Fund”) is hereby established as a non-
reverting fund to be administered and maintained by the County Auditor.
   (C)   Deposit into the Fund. All funds received by the County Treasurer from
fees described herein shall be deposited in the County Treasurer Non-Reverting
Fund.
   (D)   Purposes of Permitted Expenditures from the Treasurer Fund. The
Treasurer shall be entitled to make expenditures from the Treasurer Fund for
the following purposes:
      (1)   For operating expenses, including supplies, as provided for in I.C.
36-1-8-2, or as otherwise provided for by the County Council; and
      (2)   For such other expenses pertaining to the operation of the County
Treasurer’s office, or for the provision of professional services benefitting
the County Treasurer’s office, as the County Treasurer may determine to be
appropriate and necessary for the efficient operation of the County Treasurer’s
office in his or her sole discretion.
   (E)   Limitations.
      (1)   No county warrants are authorized to be issued for expenditures
from the Treasurer Fund for payment of any monies, except upon approval of a
claim by the County Treasurer, and in accordance with the terms of this
section.
      (2)   The Treasurer Fund shall be perpetual, unless, and until,
terminated by subsequent ordinance enacted by the Board.
   (F)   Fund records. The County Auditor is hereby directed to maintain and
manage accurate accounting information regarding the receipts, expenditures,
and balances of the Treasurer Fund.
(Ord. 2015-VI, passed 3-3-2015)
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
§ 36.20  ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This section does hereby establish a Fire Protection District for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Fire protection, including the capability for extinguishing all
fires that might be reasonably expected because of the types of improvements,
personal property, and real property within the boundaries of the District;
      (2)   Fire protection, including the identification and elimination of
all potential and actual sources of fire hazard;
      (3)   Other emergency services;
         (a)   Upon consultation with, and by expeditiously taking all steps
necessary and in a manner prescribed by, the State Board of Accounts, all of
the obligations and responsibilities of the Town of Greenville and Greenville
Township with regard to fire protection shall be timely assumed and fulfilled
by the Board of Trustees, Greenville Township Fire Protection District,
established by this subchapter as a successor; and
         (b)   The territory of the Greenville Township Fire Protection
District referred to in 3(a) above is and/or shall be the boundaries of
Greenville Township, as defined in this code of ordinances.
      (4)   To ensure continuity in fire protection and in the best interest of
the freeholders of the Town of Greenville and Greenville Township in the
county, upon establishment of the District, all assets, including both cash and
capital, shall transfer from the Greenville Township Board to the Greenville
Township Fire Protection District;
      (5)   Other purposes or functions related to fire protection and fire
prevention. These purposes and functions are to effectively have jurisdiction
and govern fire services throughout the District, and shall include:
         (a)   Educational interviews and effort within the community for fire
and hazard recombination and prevention;
         (b)   Volunteer recruitment;
         (c)   Proper training and working conditions for the safety of
volunteers, and expeditiously establishing, implementing, supervising, and
having full and proper accountability as to all applicable safety and
operational standards and expectations;
         (d)   Responsive and best effort services, with planning and due
diligence coordination, are to be provided throughout the District; and
         (e)   The area selected for the Fire Protection District shall include
all of Greenville Township including the Town of Greenville, pursuant to I.C.
36-8-11-4.
   (B)   This section is hereby implemented consistent with, and pursuant to,
I.C. 36-8-11-4, to have a transition and thereby assimilate and integrate the
Town of Greenville and Greenville Township, the county within the territory and
jurisdiction of this section.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 36.21  BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Appointment; terms of office; vacancies pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-12.
      (1)   Within 30 days after the ordinance establishing the District
becomes final, the county legislative body shall appoint a Board of Fire
Trustees. The Trustees must be qualified by knowledge and experience in matters
pertaining to fire protection and related activities in the District. The
following persons may not be appointed or serve as a Trustee:
         (a)   Any person who is a party to a contract with the District; or
         (b)   Any person who is a member, an employee, a director, or a
shareholder of any corporation or association that has a contract with the
District.
      (2)   The legislative body shall appoint one Trustee from each township
and one Trustee from each municipality contained in the District. If the number
of Trustees selected by this method is an even number, the legislative body
shall appoint one additional Trustee so that the number of Trustees is always
an odd number. If the requirements of this section do not provide at least
three Trustees, the legislative body shall make additional appointments so that
there is a minimum of three Trustees.
      (3)   The original Trustees shall be appointed as follows:
         (a)   One for a term of one year;
         (b)   One for a term of two years;
         (c)   One for a term of three years; and
         (d)   All others for a term of four years.
      (4)   The terms expire on the first Monday of January of the year their
appointments expire. As the terms expire, each new appointment is for a term of
four years.
      (5)   If a vacancy occurs on the Board, the county legislative body shall
appoint a trustee with the qualifications specified in division (A)(1) above
for the unexpired term.
   (B)   Meetings pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-13.
      (1)   The Board shall fix the time for holding regular meetings, but the
Board shall meet at least once in the months of January, April, July, and
October.
      (2)   The county legislative body may order that regular meetings be held
more frequently.
      (3)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairperson or
by two Trustees, upon written request to the Secretary. At least three days
before a special meeting, the Secretary shall send to all Trustees a written
notice fixing the time and place of the meeting. Written notice is not required
if:
         (a)   The time of the special meeting has been fixed in a regular
meeting; or
         (b)   All Trustees were present at a meeting at which a special
meeting was called.
      (4)   All meetings will comply with the notice requirements of the State
Open Door Law, being I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.
   (C)   Powers and duties pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-15. Powers granted by this
chapter may be used only to accomplish the purpose, or purposes, as stated in
the ordinance establishing the District. However, an act of the Board necessary
and proper to accomplish the purposes for which the District is established is
not invalid because it incidentally accomplishes a purpose other than one for
which the District is established. The Board:
      (1)   Has the same powers and duties as a township executive with respect
to fire protection functions, including those duties and powers prescribed by
I.C. 36-8-13, although all cooperative and joint actions permitted by that
chapter must be undertaken according to this subchapter;
      (2)   Has the same powers and duties of the township executive relative
to contracting with volunteer firefighting companies, as prescribed by I.C. 36-
8-12 and I.C. 36-8-13stateRef;
      (3)   Shall appoint, fix the compensation, and prescribe the duties of a
fiscal officer, secretarial staff, persons performing special and temporary
services or providing legal counsel, and the personnel considered necessary for
the proper functioning of the District; however, a person appointed as a fiscal
officer must be bonded by good and sufficient sureties in an amount ordered by
the county legislative body to protect the District from financial loss;
      (4)   Shall exercise general supervision of, and make regulations for,
the administration of the District’s affairs;
      (5)   Shall prescribe uniform rules pertaining to investigations and
hearings;
      (6)   Shall supervise the fiscal affairs and responsibilities of the
District. Upon its organization, the Fire District created by this subchapter
shall immediately, and automatically, be authorized to substitute, and assume
successor duties to, the Fire Services Authority, and responsibilities of the
Township Trustee;
      (7)   May delegate to employees of the District the authority to perform
ministerial acts, except in cases in which final action of the Board is
necessary;
      (8)   Shall keep accurate and complete records of all departmental
proceedings, record and file all bonds and contracts, and assume responsibility
for the custody and preservation of all papers and documents of the District;
      (9)   Shall make an annual report to the executive and the fiscal body of
the county that, at least, lists the financial transactions of the District and
a statement of the progress in accomplishing the purposes for which the
District has been established;
      (10)   Shall adopt a seal and certify all official acts;
      (11)   May sue, and be sued, collectively by its legal name (Board of
Trustees, Greenville Township Fire Protection District) with service of process
made on the Chairperson of the Board, but costs may not be taxed against the
members individually in an action;
      (12)   May invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the
enforcement of this section or of proper action of the Board taken in a court;
      (13)   Shall prepare and submit to the fiscal body of the county an
annual budget for operation and maintenance expenses and for the retirement of
obligations of the District, subject to review and approval by the fiscal body;
      (14)   May, if advisable, establish one or more advisory committees;
      (15)   May enter into agreements with, and accept money from, a federal
or state agency, and enter into agreements with a municipality located within
or outside the District, whether or not the municipality is a part of the
District, for a purpose compatible with the purposes for which the District
exists and with the interests of the municipality;
      (16)   May accept gifts of money or other property to be used for the
purposes for which the District is established;
      (17)   May levy taxes at a uniform rate on the real and personal property
within the District;
      (18)   May issue bonds and tax anticipation warrants;
      (19)   May incur debts and liabilities;
      (20)   May purchase or rent property;
      (21)   May sell services or property that are produced incidental to the
operations of the District making a fair and reasonable charge for it;
      (22)   May make contracts, or otherwise enter into agreements, with
public or private persons or federal or state agencies for construction,
maintenance, or operations of all, or in part of, the District;
      (23)   May receive and disburse money; and
      (24)   May impose a false alarm fee or service charge under I.C. 36-8-13-
4.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 36.22  TAXING DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Taxing District shall be considered a municipal corporation
pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-16.
   (B)   All real property within a Fire Protection District constitutes a
Taxing District for the purpose of levying taxes to pay for the construction,
operation, and maintenance of District programs and facilities. A tax levied
must be levied at a uniform rate upon all taxable property within the District.
A Fire Protection District is a municipal corporation within the meaning of the
State Constitution and all general statutes.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 36.23  BONDS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-17, bonds may be issued only against the taxable
property of a Fire Protection District and may be paid, in part, by revenues
derived from reasonable charges for services or property produced incidental to
the operation of the District. Bonds shall be issued in the same manner as
conservancy district bonds are issued under I.C. 14-33-11stateRef.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 36.24  ANNUAL BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-18, the Board shall annually budget the
necessary money to meet the expenses of operation and maintenance of the
District, including repairs, fees, salaries, depreciation on all depreciable
assets, rents, supplies, contingencies, bond redemption, and all other expenses
lawfully incurred by the District.
      (2)   After estimating expenses and receipts of money, the Board shall
establish the tax levy required to fund the estimated budget.
   (B)   The budget must be approved by the fiscal body of the county, any
other entities established by statute, and the Department of Local Government
Finance.
   (C)   (1)   Upon approval by the Department of Local Government Finance, the
Board shall certify the approved tax levy to the County Auditor having land
within the District. The County Auditor shall have the levy entered on the
County Treasurer’s tax records for collection.
      (2)   After collection of the taxes, the County Auditor shall issue a
warrant on the treasurer to transfer the revenues collected to the Board, as
provided by statute.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 36.25  NO DUPLICATE TAX LEVIES.
   There shall be no duplicate tax levies, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-19. The
Department of Local Government Finance, when approving a rate and levy fixed by
the Board, shall verify that a duplication of tax levies does not exist between
a Fire Protection District and a municipality or township within the boundaries
of the District, so that taxpayers do not bear two levies for the same service,
except as provided otherwise herein.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 36.26  INDEBTEDNESS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-20, a unit that incurred indebtedness for fire
protection services before the establishment of a Fire Protection District
under this chapter shall continue to repay that indebtedness by levies within
the boundaries of the until the indebtedness is paid in full.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 36.27  PURCHASE OF FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The purchase of firefighting equipment (upon installment, conditional
sale, or mortgage contract) is pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-26.
   (B)   After a sufficient appropriation for the purchase of firefighting
apparatus and equipment, including housing, is made, and is, available, the
District’s Fiscal Officer, with the approval of the Board and the county’s
fiscal body, may purchase the firefighting apparatus and equipment for the
District on an installment conditional sale or mortgage contract running for a
period not exceeding:
      (1)   Six years; or
      (2)   Fifteen years for a district that:
         (a)   Has a total assessed value of $60,000,000 or less, as determined
by the Department of Local Government Finance; and
         (b)   Is purchasing the firefighting equipment with funding from the
state of its instrumentalities; or federal government or its instrumentalities.
   (C)   The purchase shall be amortized in equal or approximately equal
installments payable on January 1 and July 1 each year.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 36.28  PAYMENT OF FIREFIGHTERS’ HEALTHCARE EXPENSES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-27, a Fire Protection District shall pay for
the care of a full-time, paid firefighter who suffers any of the following
during the performance of the firefighter’s duties:
      (1)   An injury; or
      (2)   Contracts an illness.
   (B)   The Fire Protection District shall pay for the following expenses
incurred by a firefighter described in division (A) above:
      (1)   Medical and surgical care;
      (2)   Medicines and laboratory, curative, and palliative agents and
means;
      (3)   X-ray, diagnostic, and therapeutic service, including service
provided during the recovery period; and
      (4)   Hospital and special nursing care, if the physician or surgeon in
charge considers it necessary for proper recovery.
   (C)   (1)   Expenditures required in division (A) above shall be paid from
the fund used by the Fire Protection District for payment of costs attributable
to providing fire protection services in the Fire Protection District.
      (2)   The Fire Protection District may purchase insurance or other
instruments to offset the responsibility as described herein.
   (D)   (1)   A Fire Protection District that has paid for the care of a
firefighter under division (A) above has a cause of action for reimbursement of
the amount paid under division (A) above against any third party against whom
the firefighter has a cause of action for:
         (a)   An injury sustained because of a third party; or
         (b)   An illness caused by a third party.
      (2)   The Fire Protection District’s cause of action under this
subchapter is in addition to, and not instead of, the cause of action of the
firefighter against the third party.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 4-23-2019)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWAGE
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Permit required; fee
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The Board of Commissioners.
      SOLID WASTE. All describable and non- describable solid and semisolid
waste, except human sewage and its products, but including: garbage; rubbish;
ashes; dead animals; and solid commercial, industrial, and institutional waste.
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SERVICE. Any person, persons, or corporations who,
for a consideration, shall offer to remove solid waste from any residence,
apartment, condominium, business, or industry in the county.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate a SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SERVICE in the county without first obtaining a nonexclusive permit from the
Board; provided, no city or town in the county which provides SOLID WASTE
DISPOSAL SERVICE shall be required to obtain a permit hereunder.
   (C)   (1)   For a permit to be issued under the terms of this section, there
is hereby established an annual fee of $500 for each permit.
      (2)   The foregoing, notwithstanding, a permit fee of $250 shall be
assessed for calendar year 1991, with permits to be obtained not later than
July 1, 1991; provided, no permit fee shall be charged an applicant for a
calendar year 1991 permit if the applicant is the holder of a valid and current
solid waste disposal permit issued by Clark County.
   (D)   The Board shall, from time to time, establish rules and regulations
pertaining to solid waste and its disposal; which rules and regulations, upon
their adoption, shall be deemed a part of this section.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall be required to obtain a
permit hereunder, but who shall fail to apply therefor on or before January 15
of each calendar year, shall be assessed a late application fee of $150; which
late application fee shall be in addition to any fine which may be assessed for
a violation of the terms and provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 6-1-1991)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the terms and provisions of §
50.01 shall be subject to a  fine not less than $25, nor more than $2,500. Each
day that a violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 6-1-1991)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   On-site disposal systems
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Installation
   
51.17   Permits and inspection
   
51.18   Powers for inspections
   
51.19   Violations and enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  ON-SITE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   The county’s on-site disposal system regulations, and any and all
amendments, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set
out in full.
(Ord. 2010-XII, passed 4-20-2010)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 51.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLOSELY BUILT-UP AREAS. Any areas situated outside the corporate limits of
any city or town upon which areas are located either residential or business
buildings; provided, the term shall not apply to tracts of land consisting of
ten acres or more; and provided further, it shall not include any tract of land
which is used for farming or agricultural purposes.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface water runoff and sewage.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, or corporation.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage disposal system not constructed,
installed, maintained, operated, and owned by a municipality or a taxing
district established for that purpose.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer constructed, installed, maintained, operated and owned
by a municipality or a taxing district established for that purpose. A county
sewer installed for the purpose of carrying surface water runoff and sub-soil
drainage shall not be considered a PUBLIC SEWER under this definition.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Any combination of human excreta and waste water from water closets,
laundries, sinks, bathing facilities, and other objectionable waste waters.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
receiving, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
(Ord. 1967-2, passed 9-4-1967)
§ 51.16  INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, all
persons owning or leasing property in closely built-up areas shall comply with
the following provisions of this subchapter for private sewage disposal
systems.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an insanitary manner upon public or private property within the
county, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the county, any human
excrement or sewage.
   (C)   At any business building situated within the county where there is
installed a sewage disposal system which is not connected to a public sewer
system, and no public sewer system is available, there shall be established,
installed, or constructed and maintained a private sewage disposal system,
which shall comply with the standards of the State Board of Health, as
contained in Bulletin S.E. 13 of the State Board of Health, or in such other
manner as approved by the State Board of Health. Copies of said Bulletin S.E.
13 are herewith incorporated by reference as part of this section, and two
copies are filed in the office of the County Auditor and county’s Health
Officer for public inspection.
   (D)   Any privy situated within the county shall be of the sanitary type and
shall be constructed and maintained in a clean condition and so that insects
and rodents cannot enter the vault. Any privy shall be located properly to
protect water supplies from contamination.
   (E)   All private residential sewage disposal systems and privies shall be
installed, constructed, and maintained in an approved manner as described in
Bulletins S.E. eight and 11 of the State Board of Health, copies of which are
herewith incorporated by reference as a part of this section, and two copies
filed in the office of the County Auditor and County Health Officer for public
inspection.
   (F)   The installation of any other private residential sewage disposal
systems not described in State Board of Health Bulletins S.E. eight and 11 of
mechanical, chemical, or other means shall be approved by the County Health
Officer after the Board of Commissioners has filed the requirements, plans, and
specifications of such device or system in the office of the County Auditor and
in the County Health office; said requirements, plans, and specifications must
bear the written approval of the State Board of Health.
   (G)   Should a defect exist or occur in any private sewage disposal system
or privy which would cause said sewage disposal system or privy to fail to meet
the requirements in divisions (C), (D), and (F) above, and cause an insanitary
condition, the defect shall be corrected upon order, in writing, from the
county’s Board of Health, stating a period of time for such correction to be
made by the owner, or agent of the owner. Failure to do so shall be a violation
of this subchapter, and the violator shall be subject to the penalties
prescribed in §
51.19(B).
   (H)   Wherever a public combined or sanitary sewer becomes available, and is
within 50 feet of the property line of the residential or business property
served by a private sewage disposal system or privy situated within the county,
a direction connection shall be made to said sewer; provided, however, that
said public sewer system makes necessary easement to the property, and any
septic tanks, outhouses, privy pits, and similar sewage disposal and treatment
facilities shall be abandoned and filled in a safe and sanitary manner, if an
unsafe and insanitary condition exists.
   (I)   Whenever a new business building or subdivision is developed in an
area where a public combined or sanitary sewer is available, a connection shall
be made to said sewer, if such connection can be made at a reasonable cost.
   (J)   (1)   After receiving an order, in writing, from the county’s Board of
Health, or the duly appointed Health Officer, the owner, or agent of the owner,
of the property shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter, as set
forth in said order, and within the time limit included therein.
      (2)   The minimum time limit of said order to comply shall be not less
than 60 days. Said order shall be served on the owner, or agent of the owner.
(Ord. 1967-2, passed 9-4-1967)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.17 PERMITS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Due to poor permeability of the soil in the jurisdiction of this
subchapter, the minimum gallonage of septic tanks shall be 1,000 gallons, and
minimum footage of absorption beds shall be 300 feet.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of any building or private
residence where a private sewage disposal system or privy is to be installed or
where any alteration, repair, or addition of an existing private sewage
disposal system is planned, the owner, or agent of the owner, shall first
obtain a written permit signed by the County Health Officer.
      (1)   The application for such permit shall be made on a form provided by
the county, which application shall state conformance with §
51.16(F).
      (2)   The permit and inspection fee of $10 shall be paid to the County
Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system or privy shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Health Officer as it relates to this subchapter.
      (1)   He or she, or his or her agent, shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction; and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Health Officer when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
      (2)   The inspection shall be made within two working days of the receipt
of notice by the County Health Officer.
   (D)   The application for a permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place
at, or near, the building site where the sewage disposal system is under
construction. The notice should be plainly visible.
   (E)   The fees and charges below herein be, and the same are hereby are,
adopted and established as the fees and charges to be levied and imposed for
the various service to be rendered and performed by the County Health
Department, with such fees and charges, upon collection and receipt, to be
deposited by the County Health Department, as required by law.
Environmental Health Services Fee
Environmental Health Services                                      Fee
Additions and/or replacement to existing structure                 $25
Approval permit (garages, out buildings, geothermal heat, swimming $25
pool, and sprinkler systems)
Inspection of septic for loan approval                             $50 annually
Installer license                                                  $100
New septic system permit                                           $100
Public swimming pool permit                                        $25 annually
Septic repair and replacement permit                               $25
Site survey                                                        $25
 
(Ord. 1967-2, passed 9-4-1967; Ord. 77-3, passed 6-6-1977; Ord. XVII, passed 8-
21-2001)
§ 51.18  POWERS FOR INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The county’s Health Officer, or his or her agent bearing proper
credentials and identifications, shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties after proper notification for purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and/or testing necessary to carry out the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Where the literal application of this subchapter would cause undue
hardship, an exception may be granted by the Board of Commissioners in the
following manner.
      (1)   The owner shall make application to the Health Officer for such
exception. After an investigation, the Health Officer shall present such
written application to the Board of Commissioners with his or her
recommendation attached thereto.
      (2)   Exceptions may be granted by the Board of Commissioners when it is
found that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured, and such orders may be
conditioned in such a manner as to achieve that end. Such conditions may
include restrictions not generally specified by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1967-2, passed 9-4-1967)
§ 51.19  VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter may
be served by the county’s Board of Health or the duly appointed Health Officer,
with a written order stating the nature of the violation and providing a time
line for satisfactory correction thereof.
   (B)   Any violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
deemed a nuisance and the County Attorney shall file suit to abate this
nuisance as all other nuisances are abated.
(Ord. 1967-2, passed 9-4-1967)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Towing fees
   
70.02   Vehicle inspection fees
   
70.03   Off-road vehicles; four-wheel drive
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  TOWING FEES.
   The County Police Department may assess a $35 tow-in fee for each vehicle
the Department orders towed. The County Sheriff’s Department shall collect the
tow-in fee prior to releasing any towed vehicle to its owners, and shall
forward the Department’s tow-in fees to the County Auditor’s office at least
quarterly. The County Auditor is hereby directed to deposit any such revenues
received into the Sheriff’s Special Car Fund.
(Ord. 2008-VI, passed 4-1-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-6
§ 70.02  VEHICLE INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted county by, and under, the provisions
of I.C. 9-17-2-12(e), TSO Table VI, and in accordance with the procedures
delineated therein and under I.C. 36-1-3-6stateRef, the County Sheriff is
hereby authorized to collect a fee of $5 for each inspection which is made by a
member of his or her Department under, and pursuant to, the provisions of I.C.
9-17-2-12stateRef.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 9-17-2-12(e) and I.C. 36-1-3-
6stateRef, and for the purpose of the deposit of all fees collected pursuant to
this section, the county’s Vehicle Inspection Fund is hereby established, which
Fund shall be non-reverting, used for law enforcement purposes only, and which
Fund shall be subject to appropriation by the County Council.
(Ord. 2001-II, passed 2-20-2001)
§ 70.03  OFF-ROAD VEHICLES; FOUR-WHEEL DRIVE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A vehicle, commonly referred to as a THREE-WHEELER or
FOUR-WHEELER, capable of cross country travel without a road or trail, over
land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain. An OFF-
ROAD VEHICLE does not include a snowmobile.
   (B)   Vehicles authorized. The Board of Commissioners hereby ratify and
confirm the provisions of I.C. 14-16-1 for the use of three- wheeled and four-
wheeled vehicles in the county, and pursuant to the authority granted therein,
hereby authorize the use of three-wheeled and four-wheeled off-road vehicles,
other than snowmobiles, on county roads and highways outside the corporate
limits of incorporated cities and towns, subject to the limitations contained
herein.
   (C)   Insurance required. The vehicles and drivers authorized by this
section shall have liability coverage as required by state law. The coverage
required must contain endorsements providing coverage for off-road use of a
vehicle.
   (D)   License required. The drivers of such a vehicle must have a motor
vehicle operator’s license as otherwise provided for by state law.
   (E)   Only agricultural uses authorized. An off- road vehicle operated on
county roads and highways shall be used only as a means of transportation in
connection with agricultural activities; provided, however, that the vehicle
may be operated by the farmer personally or by a non-farmer in connection with
agricultural activity.
   (F)   Operating restrictions.
      (1)   An off-road vehicle traveling on county roads and highways must
have lights burning at all times. Off-road vehicles traveling on county roads
and highways must travel in a single file on the right side of the road, and
maintain a minimum of 100 feet between vehicles, and observe the restrictions
codified in I.C. 14-16-1-8, I.C. 14-16-1-9, I.C. 14-16-1-9.5, I.C. 14-16-1-11,
and I.C. 14-16-1-11.5, or its successor statutes.
      (2)   Off-road vehicles may only be operated during daylight hours,
between local dawn and local dusk. They may only be operated outside this time
period in the event of an emergency.
(Ord. 2007-XX, passed 11-7-2007)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
70.03 is subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 2007-XX, passed 11-7-2007)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Load limits
      
III.   Traffic control devices
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to, and including, any road,
street, or highway that is built up with structures devoted to business,
industry, or dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 200 feet for a
distance of at least one-fourth of a mile.
      URBAN ROAD or HIGHWAY. A road or highway under the maintenance
jurisdiction of the Board of Commissioners which is located within an Urban
District, and shall expressly include a road or highway located in the
immediate vicinity of a school.
   (B)   Except with respect to those roads and highways specifically set forth
division (E) below, the maximum lawful speed on non-urban roads located in the
county and under the maintenance jurisdiction of the Board of Commissioners is
30 mph, and no person shall drive a motor vehicle on any such road or highway
in excess of such limit. The maximum lawful speed on those roads or highways,
or designated sections thereof, set forth in division (E) below, shall be as
delineated therein.
   (C)   The maximum lawful speed on urban roads located in the county, and
under the maintenance jurisdiction of the Board of Commissioners is 30 mph;
provided, that where a special hazard to the traveling public or pedestrians is
found to exist, such maximum lawful speed shall be, and is, 20 mph, and shall
be posted as such in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 9-21-5-8. No person
shall drive a motor vehicle on any such urban road or highway in excess of the
limit, or limits, established hereunder.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners hereby confirms the maximum lawful speed
heretofore established for each urban and non-urban road or highway located in
the county and under the maintenance jurisdiction of the Board of
Commissioners, as such maximum lawful speed is delineated by the provisions of
I.C. 9-21-5-2(a)(1), prior ordinance or resolution of the Board of
Commissioners, or as posted on the various roads, streets, and highways which
are the subject of this section.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners determine the following limits shall be the
maximum lawful speed on the following listed locations:
 
Street                 Location                      Speed Limit
Clover Creek Drive     From United States Highway    20 mph
                       150 to Old Vincennes Road
                       From the corporate limits of
Corydon Pike           the City of New Ablany to its 40 mph
                       intersection with State Road
                       62
Kamer Miller Road      Graceland Church              30 mph
Old Corydon Ridge Road -                             30 mph
Paoli Pike             United States Highway 150 to  40 mph; 30 mph beyond East
                       East Luther Road              Luther Road
Paoli Pike             United States Highway 150 for 35 mph
                       approximately 1,000 feet
 
   (F)   The County Highway Superintendent, with the advice, and at the
direction, of the County Engineer, erect and post signs of the altered speed
limit regarding Paoli Pike, East from United States Highway 150, provided and
required by the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, as published and
amended, from time to time, by the state.
(Ord. 1986-4, passed 9-20-1986; Ord. 1993-6, passed 12-6-1993; Ord. 1998-XI,
passed 11-17-1998; Ord. 2011-X, passed 7-19-2011)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II.  LOAD LIMITS.
   The Board of Commissioners state that Moser Knob Road, Spickert Knob Road,
and Fairview Knob Road be restricted as follows.
   (A)   County road weight limits.
      (1)   The load-carrying capacity of Moser Knob Road, Spickert Knob Road,
and Fairview Knob Road is insufficient to accommodate excessive loads.
      (2)   Vehicular wheel loads that exceed the load-carrying capacity of
road pavement and road foundation can produce serious destruction and damage to
the road pavement and road foundation, causing inconvenience to the traveling
public and necessitating excessive and expensive road repairs and maintenance.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners desire to reduce road damage and
destruction, to reduce the inconvenience to the traveling public, and to
conserve the repair and maintenance funds for the general improvement of the
County Highway System for the benefit of the traveling public.
      (4)   No trucks are allowed to proceed up or down Moser Knob Road,
Spickert Knob Road, and Fairview Knob Road that exceed a weight limit of six
tons per axle. In addition, the driver of any dump truck or concrete truck
shall have a current weight ticket in his or her possession confirming the
weight of the vehicle. In the event that the driver does not have a weight
ticket in his or her possession, the driver shall be deemed to be in violation
of this section. No semi-tractor trailer trucks shall be allowed on said roads.
Further, said vehicles shall be considered in violation of this section if said
vehicles pass the posted signs regarding the same. County government vehicles
are exempted from this section.
      (5)   The Board of Commissioners proclaim the urgent necessity that this
section take effect immediately, and the Board of Commissioners direct that
copies of this section be posted in three public places in the county, pursuant
to I.C. 36-3-4-14(c)(2).
   (B)   Establishment of preferred truck routes. The county hereby designates
the following roads/highways as preferred routes for heavy truck traffic to and
from the county and the City of New Albany:
      (1)   Paoli Pike; and
      (2)   Interstate-64.
   (C)   Violations. Violations of division (A) above shall result in the
following fines:
      (1)   A first violation by owner of vehicles shall be $100;
      (2)   A second violation by owner of vehicles shall be $500; and
      (3)   A third violation or more violations by owner of vehicles shall be
$1,000 for each violation.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Sheriff’s Department shall have authority to issue citations
for violation of division (A) above.
      (2)   The County Clerk’s office shall have authority to collect the
fines.
      (3)   The County Auditor’s office shall be responsible to account for the
collection of said fines in the Motor Vehicle Highway Account 1176.
      (4) The County Attorney, or his or her designee, shall have authority to
take action for any fines not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation.
      (5)   An appeal of the citation shall be filed with the Board of
Commissioners within 30 days of issuance. If an appeal is filed with the Board
of Commissioners, the issue will be placed on the next meeting scheduled after
notice to the party. If no appeal is made, the fine is considered final.
(Ord. 2018-19, passed 12-12-2018)
SCHEDULE III.  TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The County Highway Superintendent, with the advice and at the direction of
the County Engineer, cause the following signals and signs to be erected at the
following locations in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 9-21-3-2 and the
Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
   (A)   One-way stop signs.
 
Location of Intersection              Special Provisions Ord. No. Date Passed
The easternmost intersection of Elisa -                  -XIV     8-7-2001
Court and Louise Way
 
   (B)   Two-way stop signs.
 
Location of Intersection      Special Provisions         Ord. No. Date Passed
Cobblers Crossing and         -                          2020-11  8-4-2020
Cobblers Court
Cobblers Crossing and         -                          2020-11  8-4-2020
Wyndswept Court
Creek Ridge Drive and         -                          -XV      12-5-
Ridgeside Drive
Lora Linda Drive and Danny    Danny Drive to remain thru
Drive                         traffic northbound from    1997-V   4-1-1997
                              Kamer-Miller Road
Sandalwood Drive and Cobblers -                          2020-11  8-4-2020
Crossing
 
   (C)   Three-way stop signs.
Location of Intersection Special Provisions Ord. No. Date Passed
Location of Intersection               Special Provisions Ord. No.  Date Passed
Brenlee Drive and Jennifer Drive       -                  2001-XIII 8-7-2001
Carver Street at Wabash Avenue         -                  1999-XIII 12-12-1999
Chapel Creek Trail and Reidinger Ridge -                  XXIV      6-3-
Chapel Hill Road and Cunningham-Sarles -                  2000-VII  8-15-2000
Road
Cobbler’s Court at Cobblers Crossing -                  2008-VIII 6-17-2008
Road
County Line Road in the county at      -                  -VII      7-5-2006
Payne-Koehler Road in Clark County
Elisa Court and Louise Way             -                  -XIV      8-7-2001
Farnsley Knob Road and Seven Mile Lane -                  2009-XII  9-15-2007
Greenfield Drive and Greenfield Court  -                  2014-IX   7-15-2014
Greenfield Drive and Sundance Drive    -                  2014-IX   7-15-2014
Hadleigh Court at Cobbler’s Crossing -                  2008-VIII 6-17-2008
Road
Highland Oaks Drive and Inverness      -                  2007-IV   3-6-2007
Drive
Lacewood Lane at Moccasin Court        -                  2008-III  2-19-2008
Lacewood Lane at Sandalwood Drive      -                  2008-VIII 6-17-2008
Northern intersection of Lora Linda    -                  2003-VI   2-4-2003
Northwest corner of Shady View and     -                  1998-XIII 12-15-1998
Elaine Dive
Old Vincennes Road and Button Town     -                  2002-II   1-2-2002
Road
Old Vincennes Road and Featheringill   -                  1999-XI   11-16-1999
Road
Plantation Drive and Pebble Hill Court -                  1997-III  3-4-1997
West Wills Road and Edwardsville-      -                  2006-IX   9-19-2006
Galena Road
Wolf Ridge Drive and East Lobo Ridge   -                  2004-X    - -2004
Drive in Wolf Lake Subdivision
 
   (D)   Four-way stop signs (or all-way stops).
Location of Intersection Special Provisions Ord. No. Date Passed
Location of Intersection              Special Provisions Ord. No.   Date Passed
Autumn Hill Trail and Autumn Hill     -                  -V         4-4-2000
Court
Cobblers Crossing Road and Wyndemere  -                  1999-VI    5-18-1999
Court
Corydon Ridge Road and Baylor Wissman
Road to the north and Salem Road to   -                  1997-IV    4-1-1997
the south
Jullian Drive and Ridge Side Drive    -                  2007-XII   6-19-2007
Koehler Place and Azalea and Ashbrook -                  2002-X     7-2-
Way
Old Corydon Ridge Road and Yenowine   -                  1986-4     9-20-1986
Lane
Wolf Lake Boulevard and Wolf Ridge    -                  2003-XXXII 9-16-2003
Drive
 
   (E)   Crossing signal.
 
Location of Intersection         Special Provisions Ord. No. Date Passed
Sunset Drive and Charleston Road -                  2016-6   3-1-2016
 
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I.  RESTRICTED PARKING.
   The County Highway Superintendent, with the advice and direction of the
County Engineer, cause no- parking areas to be designated in Brazil Lake
Estates. The County Highway Superintendent, with the advice and direction of
the County Engineer, will cause no-parking signs to be erected designating the
no-parking areas, pursuant to state law.
(Ord. 2008-VII, passed 5-7-2008)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY GENERALLY
      
92.   PARKS, RECREATION, AND PUBLIC LAND
      
93.   ANIMAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
90.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
90.10   Exemptions
   
90.11   Administrative enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Board of Commissioners to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits, as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§
3601 et seq., as amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of
1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)
§ 90.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9.5-4-1 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§  90.04
through 90.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING.
      (1)   Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure, that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or
      (2)   Any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual, or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant, or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined under FAMILIAL STATUS. (See I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   Includes, with respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of, or addictions
to, a controlled substance, as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802, or 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2
(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite in 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. (See I.C. 22-9.5-2-13.) Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and
otherwise to grant for a consideration the rights to occupy the premises not
owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)
§ 90.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
90.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1stateRef and in §
90.04 shall apply to all dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below
and I.C. 22-9.5-3stateRef.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single- family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period;
         (a)   The private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor
have owned or reserved on his or her behalf, title to, or any right to, all, or
a portion of, the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such
single-family houses at any one time; and
         (b)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use, in any manner, of the sales, rental
facilities, or services of any real estate broker, agent, salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent, salesperson, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(A)(3), but, noting in this provision, shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied, or
intended to be occupied, by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling, or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or are occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
90.03 and except as exempted by §§
90.03(B) and
90.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is, in fact, so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce, or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry, or perspective entry,
into the neighborhood of a person, or persons, of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale, rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   A person; or
         (b)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied, or to be occupied, by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, with reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use, and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to, and usable by, handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and
other environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (A)(8)(c)3.c. above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or other entity, whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful  to discriminate against any person in the terms
or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, as stated in
division (A) above, on account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03 through
90.06.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin, and because he or she is, or has been,
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, contracting, or negotiating
for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for, or participating in, any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is, or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person or any other person, or any class of persons, from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person, or class of persons, opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403, and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq., shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin.
      (2)   Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not, in
fact, open to the public, which, as an incident to its primary purpose, or
purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its
members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, or the State Civil
Rights Commission, determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner, as set forth
in division (B) below, shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Board of
Commissioners, because of lack of financial and other resources necessary to
fully administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this
chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the
provisions of this chapter by complainants to the State’s Civil Rights
Commission for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-
6stateRef, and the chief elected official of the Board of Commissioners shall
refer all said complaints to the Commission, as provided for under division (A)
above, to said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution, and
appropriate relief, as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6stateRef.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the Board of Commissioners
shall administer the departments, programs, and activities relating to housing
and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter, and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Board of
Commissioners to further such purposes.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any citizen, because he or she is, or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
90.07, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate, shall be fined according to local,
state, and federal law; and if bodily injury results, shall be subject to a
fine not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and
if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Ord. 2014-IV, passed 4-15-2014)
CHAPTER 91:  PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY GENERALLY
Section
   
91.01   Disease suppression; unlicensed childcare facilities
§ 91.01  DISEASE SUPPRESSION; UNLICENSED CHILDCARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   If it has reason to believe that a contagious and/or communicable
disease and/or illness is present in an unlicensed childcare home, the County
Health Department may require any individual operating an unlicensed childcare
home to cease all operations until the unlicensed childcare home has been
properly cleaned, sanitized, and disinfected to eliminate the possibility of
spreading the disease.
   (B)   The County Health Department may require any individual operating an
unlicensed childcare home to hire professionals, who are properly trained in
the eradication of contagious and/or communicable diseases, to clean, sanitize,
and disinfect the entire premises of the childcare home if any child for whom
care is provided at the home is found to have any contagious and/or
communicable disease or illness.
   (C)   The County Health Department may require any individual operating an
unlicensed childcare home to provide proof of immunizations for each child for
whom care is provided.
   (D)   In the event that any individual and/or unlicensed childcare home
fails to comply with an order of the County Health Department and/or the
provisions of this section, the County Health Department may issue an order
requiring the unlicensed childcare home to immediately cease all operations
until the individual and/or unlicensed childcare home comes into compliance.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit, in any way, the
authority and powers granted to the County Health Department in I.C. 16-20-1-
1 et seq.
(Ord. 2009-III, passed 3-17-2009)
CHAPTER 92:  PARKS, RECREATION, AND PUBLIC LAND
Section
   
92.01   Adoption by the Department of Parks and Recreation
   
92.02   Use of grounds and facilities
   
92.03   Certain acts prohibited
   
92.04   Picnic areas and use
   
92.05   Special activities
   
92.06   Operations of motor vehicles and boats
   
92.07   Animals within the park area
   
92.08   Peddling or soliciting
   
92.09   Fishing
   
92.10   Hours of closing
   
92.11   Exceptions
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  ADOPTION BY THE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   The Department of Parks and Recreation (“the Department”) has previously
adopted rules and regulations for the use of all public parks on lands owned or
operated by the Department, which, by this chapter the Board of Commissioners,
now ratifies and adopts for public parks operated by the Department on lands
owned by the county.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 92.02  USE OF GROUNDS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each person, firm, or corporation using the public parks and grounds
shall clean and remove all debris, extinguish all fires, when such fires are
permitted.
   (B)   Each person, firm, or corporation using the public parks and grounds
shall  leave the premises in good order and the facilities in a neat and
sanitary condition.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation using such parks
to either perform, or permit to be performed, any of the following acts within
parks premises:
   (A)   To commit assault, battery, or engage in any fighting or non-
consensual physical contact with any other persons;
   (B)   To prevent any person from using any park, or any of its facilities,
or to interfere with the use in compliance with this chapter and the rules and
regulations adopted herein;
   (C)   To possess, carry, or discharge firearms (unless otherwise allowed by
applicable state law), fireworks, BB guns, air guns, bows and arrows,
crossbows, slingshots, blowguns, rockets, paint ball guns, or martial arts
weapons, unless authorized in writing by the Superintendent of Parks, the
County Sheriff, or a duly sworn County Deputy Sheriff;
   (D)   To hit golf balls;
   (E)   To damage, cut, break, injure, deface, or disturb any tree, plant,
shrub, rock, building, monument, fence, bench, playground, or other park
equipment, or other structure, apparatus, or property; or to pluck, pull up,
cut, take, or remove any shrub, bush, plant, or flower; or to mark, write upon,
paint, or otherwise deface, in any manner, any park building, monument, fence,
playground park equipment, or other structure;
   (F)   To cut or remove any trees, wood, turf, grass, soil, rock, or gravel
without written permission from the Superintendent of Parks;
   (G)   To swim, bathe, wade in, or pollute the water of any fountain, pond,
lake, or stream;
   (H)   To throw, discharge, or otherwise place, or cause to be placed, in the
waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, or other body of water in, or
adjacent to, any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing
in such waters, any substance, matter or thing, either liquid or solid, which
will, or may, result in the pollution of such waters;
   (I)   To make or kindle any fire, except in picnic grills provided by the
Department, or within areas specifically designated for that purpose;
   (J)   To place, abandon, or leave garbage, cans, bottles, papers, or other
refuse in any public park, except in a proper waste receptacle. Nor is the
   (K)   To dump any personal items, trash, grass clippings, leaves, limbs, or
other refuse for the purpose of disposal;
   (L)   To participate or engage in any activity in any park area when such
activity will create a danger to the public, public nuisance, or cause damage
to park property;
   (M)   To camp, sleep, or stay overnight in any park without prior written
permission by the Superintendent of Parks;
   (N)   To disturb, in any manner, any picnic, meeting, service, concert,
exercise class, or other class or exhibition;
   (O)   To possess or consume any alcoholic beverages;
   (P)   For any person over the age of six years to use the restrooms and
washrooms designated for use by the opposite sex, unless such assistance is
medically necessary;
   (Q)   To stand, skate, sit, or walk on areas of water covered with ice;
   (R)   To use of mechanical loud speakers or amplified music, sound, or
voices, except when authorized in writing by the Superintendent of Parks, or
when done in connection with the use of any amphitheater provided music or
sound, and provided such sounds are within the levels prescribed by applicable
state or local laws, ordinances, or regulations, as measured at the park
property boundary;
   (S)   To smoke cigarettes, cigars, or electronic cigarettes, or consume
other tobacco products on, or around, playgrounds, or near any youth activity
or event; and
   (T)   To use any metal detector on any park property without the prior
written consent of the Superintendent of Parks.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Battery statutes, see I.C. 35-42-2-1, 35-42-2-3, and 35-45-1-3
§ 92.04  PICNIC AREAS AND USE.
   No person in a park shall use any portion of the picnic areas or any of the
buildings or structures therein for the purpose of holding picnics to the
exclusion of other persons, except by reservation permit obtained from the
Department of Parks and Recreation; nor shall any person use such areas and
facilities for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded. Loitering
will not be permitted.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  SPECIAL ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To use or operate any remote controlled drone, airplane, boat,
helicopter, parasail, hang glider, or hot air balloon, unless otherwise
designated by the Superintendent of Parks;
   (B)   To take off or land a drone on any park property without prior written
permission of the Superintendent of Parks and/or a permit issued by the
Department; or
   (C)   To conduct or participate in any tournament, camp, lessons, or
organized sporting event which has not been specifically authorized by the
Superintendent of Parks.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  OPERATIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES AND BOATS.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To ride, drive, or to go at a rate of speed greater than the posted
speed limit upon any bicycle, motorcycle, in-line skates, automobile, or other
vehicle whatsoever, upon any parking lot,  area, drive, or street in any park;
provided, however, bicycles and in-line skating are allowed on designated park
trails;
   (B)   To park or operate any truck-trailer, trailer, semi-trailer, or pole-
trailer in a park facility or parking lot at any time, unless while on official
park business; and
   (C)   To ride, drive, or park any motorcycle, automobile, motorized scooter,
or other motorized vehicle upon, over, or across any park curb, sidewalk,
grass, lawn, hiking or jogging trail, or park land, except authorized county
vehicles, and in designated areas specifically permitting such use, or unless
authorized in writing by the Superintendent of Parks;
   (D)   To use or operate any motorboat on any creek, pond, lake, or other
body of water within any park. The use of rowboats, canoes, kayaks, and boats
with electric trolling motors, however, is permitted;
   (E)   To operate any vehicle in a park facility parking lot between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. without prior written permission from the
Superintendent of Parks; and
   (F)   To leave or abandon a vehicle in any park after normal hours (11:00
p.m. to 6:00 a.m.). This will result in the removal of the vehicle by a towing
company at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07  ANIMALS WITHIN THE PARK AREA.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To hitch, fasten, lead, ride, drive, or let free any animal, reptile,
or fowl of any kind; provided that this shall not apply to domestic animals as
defined by the county’s Animal Control Code, found in
Chapter 93 of this code of ordinances. All permitted animals shall be led by a
static leash, cord, or chain not more than ten feet long, or a retractable cord
not more than 15 feet long;
   (B)   To ride or drive any horse or animal, except on, or immediately along
the side of, existing roadways;
   (C)   To allow a domestic animal to defecate in any park without immediately
removing and disposing of such feces into a proper waste receptacle; and
   (D)   To hunt, abandon, replace, remove, or injure any animal, domestic or
wild, including, but not limited to: dogs; cats; cows; horses; birds; mammals;
reptiles; fowls; or livestock.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08  PEDDLING AND SOLICITING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than employees or officials of the
Department, or individuals acting on behalf of the County Parks Board, to:
   (A)   To sell, or offer for sale, any food, drinks, confections,
merchandise, or services, except pursuant to a written agreement that includes
requirements for a certificate of liability insurance naming the Department as
an additional insured, a permit issued by the County Health Department (if
needed), and prior written permission from the Superintendent of Parks; and
   (B)   To practice, carry on, conduct, or solicit for any trade, occupation,
business, or profession, or to circulate any petition.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09  FISHING.
   (A)   All persons fishing in the areas under the control of the Department
must conform to all state laws, rules, and regulations, including, without
limitation, those enacted or enforced by the State Department of Natural
Resources (Division of Fishing and Wildlife) (“DNR”). The legal size of a large
mouth bass will be determined by DNR.
   (B)   Minnows shall not be used as bait.
   (C)   Dumping of fish taken from another source is not allowed.
   (D)   Fishing after normal park hours is allowed with a proper night fishing
permit obtained from the Department.
   (E)   Seine fishing of minnows or fish from creeks, ponds, or lakes in any
park is not allowed.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10  HOURS OF CLOSING.
   It shall be unlawful to remain, stay, or loiter in any park between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, unless with the prior
written authorization of the Superintendent of Parks.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11  EXCEPTIONS.
   These provisions shall not apply to any properly authorized government
official acting in pursuit of his or her official duty.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the fines
or civil penalties not to exceed $2,500 for a first violation of this chapter,
or $7,500 for subsequent violations of this chapter. (See I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
(B).) Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. All
fines and civil penalties collected shall be returned to, and deposited in, the
county’s Parks and Recreation Non-Reverting Program Fund.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Parks and Recreation Non-Reverting Program Fund, see
TSO Table VI
CHAPTER 93:  ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Definitions
   
93.002   Spay/neuter program established at animal shelter
   
93.003   Restraint; collar specifications
   
93.004   Exhibitions or parades of animals
   
93.005   Schedule of fees
Registration and Vaccination
   
93.020   Cats; registration and licensing
   
93.021   Exotic animal registration
   
93.022   Dogs, cats, and ferrets over three months to be inoculated
Impoundment
   
93.035   Impoundment authorized
   
93.036   Removal of animals in immediate danger
   
93.037   Animal shelter to record data
   
93.038   Impounding fee; bond
   
93.039   Redemption of impounded animal
   
93.040   Euthanasia and disposal of privately owned animals
Dangers and Nuisances
   
93.055   Animals as a public nuisance
   
93.056   Permitting animals to run at large
   
93.057   Dangerous animals
   
93.058   Duties of owners of dangerous animals
   
93.059   Animals afflicted with contagious disease
   
93.060   Rabies quarantine of animals
Cruelty Towards Animals
   
93.075   Animals as prizes or inducements
   
93.076   Cruel treatment or neglect
   
93.077   Animal fighting; exhibition fighting
   
93.078   Provision of necessities
   
93.079   Sexual acts with animals
   
93.080   Abandonment
   
93.081   Keeping places of habitation clean
   
93.082   Allowing animals to remain in parked vehicles
Enforcement Procedures
   
93.095   Enforcement
   
93.096   Interference with enforcement
   
93.097   Powers of animal control officers
   
93.098   Custodial liability
   
93.099   Authority to kill animals
   
93.100   Destruction of impounded animals
   
93.101   Powers of the Animal Control Authority
   
93.102   Meetings with Animal Control Authority
   
93.103   Resolutions and settlements
   
93.104   Judicial enforcement
   
93.105   Issuance of citations; violation notices
Disposal of Dead Animals
   
93.120   Definitions
   
93.121   Disposal
   
93.122   Violations
   
93.123   Effect
 
   
93.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. To deposit, leave, drop off, or otherwise dispose of an owned
animal on any public or private property, or leaving an animal for a period in
excess of 24 hours, without the animal’s owner or caretaker providing all
provisions of necessity, as defined in this chapter, and checking on the
animal’s condition.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any domestic animal that has been surgically sterilized to
prevent procreation.
   ANIMAL. Any living vertebrate, domestic or wild, except a human being.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The New Albany/Floyd County Animal Control
Authority and its governing board established by an interlocal cooperation
agreement between the county and the City of New Albany on May 20, 1999,
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-7 et seq. for the operation of the New
Albany/Floyd County Animal Control and Shelter, which interlocal agreement is
ratified, affirmed, and incorporated herein by reference.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the county’s Animal Control
Authority to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter; or any law
enforcement officer of the state.
   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA AND ACTIVITIES. Equipment and/or items used to
train or condition animals for participation in animal fighting activities or
materials which promote animal fighting; the breeding of animals for the
express purpose of fighting; the training of animals for fighting; or the
tracking of animal fighting results; or the production of materials promoting
or supporting betting or gambling on animal fighting.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The New Albany/Floyd County Animal Control and Shelter.
   APPROVED RABIES VACCINE. Any vaccine for protecting an animal from
contracting rabies approved as effective by the State Board of Animal Health
(BOAH) and by the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians,
Incorporated (NASPHV) in the most current version of the Compendium of Animal
Rabies Prevention and Control.
   ATTACK. Any aggressive contact with a human being or another animal that
could result in injury or death.
   BITE. Any injury caused by the tearing, puncturing, or cutting of the skin
caused by teeth or fangs.
   CARETAKER. A person designated to take temporary charge of animals and/or
property of an owner.
   CAT. Any domestic feline.
   CRUELTY. Any act prohibited by §§
93.076 through
93.082.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal which, unprovoked, commits an attack upon,
harms, or kills a person or another animal. A DANGEROUS ANIMAL shall also
include any mammal for which there is no approved rabies vaccine.
   DOG. Any domestic canine.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose physiology has been determined and/or
manipulated through selective breeding; any of various animals that have been
tamed and made fit for a human environment; any mammal, whether or not its
physiology has been determined or manipulated through selective breeding, which
can be vaccinated against rabies with an approved rabies vaccine. DOMESTIC
ANIMALS shall include, but not be limited to: dogs; cats; birds; rabbits;
guinea pigs; rats; mice; hamsters; gerbils; ferrets; chinchillas; fish;
reptiles; livestock; equine; and poultry.
   ENCLOSURES.
      (1)   ENCLOSURES FOR ALL ANIMALS. A fence or structure of sufficient
height and construction to prevent the animal from leaving the owner’s
property.
         (a)   The ENCLOSURE may be required to contain proper shelter and a
shaded area.
         (b)   Gates and doors must fit properly and must be locked or secured
to prevent the animal from opening the gate or door.
         (c)   ENCLOSURES for poultry must contain proper shelter and a shaded
area.
      (2)   ENCLOSURES FOR DOGS.
         (a)   A fence or structure of sufficient height and construction to
prevent the animal from leaving the owner’s property. The ENCLOSURE must
contain proper shelter and a shaded area. Gates and doors must fit properly and
must be locked or secured to prevent the animal from opening the gate or door.
         (b)   Property enclosed by a buried wire which produces a signal
received by a device attached to a collar worn by the animal, and prevents the
animal from leaving the property of the owner, will be considered a proper
ENCLOSURE; provided the device and signal are working and the animal does not
leave the property unrestrained. The ENCLOSURE must contain proper shelter from
the weather and a shaded area. This type of ENCLOSURE is not acceptable for an
unaltered animal, an animal declared a public nuisance, or a dangerous animal.
      (3)   ENCLOSURES FOR DANGEROUS ANIMALS. A covered fence or fabricated
structure at least six feet in height, installed beneath ground level, or in
concrete or pavement, to prevent digging under it, and with a gravel or
concrete floor, of sufficient size to allow the animal to stand, sit, and turn
around in a natural position, and which allows for adequate exercise for the
size/breed being kept.
         (a)   ENCLOSURES shall be designed to prevent the entry of children or
unauthorized persons. ENCLOSURES shall be securely locked with a combination or
key lock to prevent accidental or malicious opening of the ENCLOSURE.
ENCLOSURES must contain proper shelter, a shaded area, and be properly
ventilated.
         (b)   The owner’s residence, other existing residence, or storage
building are not appropriate ENCLOSURES for a dangerous animal, unless approved
by the animal shelter. Any structure may be subject to approval by a county
representative, and it is the responsibility of the owner to comply with
building codes, if required.
   EQUINE. Domestic animals of, relating to, or resembling a horse or the horse
family, including, but not limited to: horses; stallions; colts; geldings;
mares; fillies; ponies; miniature horses; donkeys; mules; jacks; and jennies.
   EXHIBITION. A presentation, or other planned activity involving the
gathering of wild, exotic, and/or domestic animals in a public or private
venue.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is not normally considered to be a
domesticated animal, as defined in this section; any animal required to have a
state and/or federal permit to harbor.
      (1)   EXOTIC ANIMAL includes, but is not limited to: nonhuman primates;
venomous, cold-blooded reptiles; poisonous animals; constrictor snakes three
feet or longer; crocodillans five feet or longer; wild or exotic cats,
including cheetahs, lions, panthers, leopards, servals, ocelots and tigers
(excluding feral cats); wolves; bears; sharks; elephants; and camels.
       (2)   EXOTIC ANIMAL includes native wild animals such as, but not
limited to: bobcats; skunks; raccoons; deer; coyote; weasels; opossum; foxes;
mink; muskrat; squirrels; and badgers.
   HARBORING.
      (1)   The actions of any person that permit any animal to lodge or to be
fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard, or place of business, or
any premises which the person owns, or in which the person resides, or over
which the person has possession or control.
      (2)   An animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for
three consecutive days.
   HUNTING.
      (1)   The pursuit of any wild animal or bird licensed and regulated under
I.C. 14-22-11-1, or any successor provision to that statute.
      (2)   A HUNTER is a person engaged in HUNTING and is in possession of a
valid state hunting license.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into custody of an animal control officer and/or taken to
the animal shelter.
   LEAD or LEASH. A devise used for humanely restraining an animal.
   LIVESTOCK. Any animal raised for, or used in, agriculture, including, but
not limited to: sheep; rams; ewes; lambs; bulls; cows; steers; heifers; calves;
swine; boars; sows; piglets; goats; bucks; does; kids; llamas; alpaca; buffalo;
bison; deer; elk; ostrich; emu; or any other animals that are privately owned
and raised in a confined area for breeding stock, food, fiber, and other
products.
   MICROCHIP. A passive transponder which can be implanted into an animal and
which is a component of a radio frequency identification (RFID) system.
   NEGLECT. Any reckless or negligent act or omission which results in a
domestic animal not receiving adequate shelter, food, water, or in a domestic
animal not receiving necessary veterinary care, or in a domestic animal housed
in unhealthy living conditions.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any act of an animal or its owner that irritates, perturbs, or
damages rights and privileges common to the enjoyment of public or private
property or indirectly injures or threatens the safety of a member of the
general public.
      (2)   By way of examples, and not of limitation, the commissions of the
following acts or actions by an animal, or by its owner or possessor, may
hereby being declared a NUISANCE:
         (a)   Allowing or permitting an animal to habitually bark, whine,
howl, mew, crow, or cackle in an excessive or continual fashion, or make other
noise in such a manner so as to result in a serious annoyance or interference
with the reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring premises;
         (b)   Allowing or permitting an animal to damage the property of any
person other than its owner or caretaker, including, but not limited to:
getting into, or turning, garbage containers; damaging gardens, flowers,
plants, or other real or personal property; or leaving fecal material on the
property of another person;
         (c)   Allowing or permitting an animal to molest, chase, snap at,
attack, or attempt to attack passers-by, vehicles, or other domestic animals;
         (d)   Allowing or permitting an animal to habitually or continually
run at large; to be found on property not belonging to that of its owners or
caretakers; or to be found trespassing on school grounds, parks, or the
property of any person;
         (e)   Allowing or permitting an animal to be housed or restrained
within reach of a public street, road, sidewalk, alley, or access and, in the
discretion of the animal control officer, poses a threat to the general public
safety, health, and welfare of the general public; and/or
         (f)   Allowing or permitting an area to be maintained in an unsanitary
condition by the accumulation of animals and/or animal waste so as to be
offensive to sight or smell.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having control or custody
of animals within the jurisdiction of this chapter; provided that in the event
that a minor person shall be determined the OWNER of the animal, the parent or
guardian of such minor person shall be responsible to ensure compliance with
the terms and provisions of this chapter, and shall be liable for any non-
compliance herewith.
   PARADE. A procession of people, usually organized along a street, often in
costume, and often accompanied by marching bands, floats, and often of a
festive nature.
   POULTRY. All domesticated fowl and all game birds which are legally kept in
captivity, including, but not limited to: chickens; ducks; guinea fowl;
turkeys; geese; and peafowl.
   QUARANTINE. Humane confinement of an animal in a building which prevents the
animal coming into contact with any animal or human being other than the owner
or caretaker.
   RESTRAINT. Confined to the premises of the owner; or, if off of the premises
of the owner, confined by means of a lead, leash, or pet carrier, and under the
control of a responsible person.
   REASONABLE CARE. That degree of care which a reasonable and prudent person
would, under the same or similar circumstances, render to an animal to prevent
injury, to care for an existing injury, or to prevent death.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any domestic animal or exotic animal not located on the
real properly of its owner shall be deemed RUNNING AT LARGE if it is not under
restraint, as defined in this chapter.
   SCRATCH. Any injury caused by the tearing, puncturing, or cutting of the
skin caused by nails or claws.
   SERVICE ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal that is individually trained to perform tasks for a
person with a disability such as, but not limited to: guiding people who are
visually impaired; alerting people who are hearing impaired; assisting people
in wheelchairs; and alerting and protecting an individual who is having a
seizure. SERVICE ANIMALS are working animals.
      (2)   Any animal kept as a therapy and/or companionship animal shall not
be considered as a SERVICE ANIMAL.
   SEVERE ATTACK. An unprovoked attack in an aggressive manner upon a human in
which the victim suffered a bite, was shaken violently, and which caused
serious physical trauma or death.
   SHELTER. A structure designed specifically to shelter an animal that allows
an animal to maintain its body heat, with a roof, solid floor, and three sides
free of leaks or openings to the wind and precipitation, and a fourth side
allowing access that is protected from the elements.
      (1)   The SHELTER shall provide reasonable protection from inclement
weather and extreme temperatures.
      (2)   The structure shall be physically located in a dry area allowing
the animal access outside the structure to dry ground that is free of mud. It
shall be cleaned and maintained regularly so as to prevent the accumulation of
waste, debris, and offensive odors.
   TETHER.
      (1)   A long restraint fastened humanely to an animal’s collar or
harness, so as to keep the animal within certain bounds and limited freedom.
      (2)   TETHERS shall be made of a chain or similar material specifically
designed for the restraint of animals.
      (3)   TETHERS may not be made of rope, twine, cord, or similar material
that can easily be cut or chewed through.
   UNALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has not been surgically sterilized to
prevent procreation.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 2017-7, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 93.002  SPAY/NEUTER PROGRAM ESTABLISHED AT ANIMAL SHELTER.
   This chapter adopts a spay/neuter program for the animal shelter on the
following terms.
   (A)   (1)   All persons wishing to adopt a dog or cat at the animal shelter
must pay a spay/neuter fee with the adoption fees.
      (2)   All dogs and cats adopted from the animal shelter must be
surgically altered, unless a licensed veterinarian, in writing, states the
animal is unfit for surgery.
   (B)   The animal shelter shall deposit all monies collected from this spay/
neuter fee into the Non-Reverting Fund for the spay/neuter program with the
City Controller, and thereafter shall process all claims to maintain the spay/
neuter clinic at the animal shelter.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 93.003  RESTRAINT; COLLAR SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   RESTRAINT shall mean, but not be limited to, confined to the premises
of the owner; or, if off of the premises of the owner, confined by means of a
lead, leash, or pet carrier and under the control of a responsible person.
   (B)   (1)   Any tethering system employed in place of an enclosure shall not
allow the animal to leave the owner’s property.
      (2)   The tether may not be made of a rope, twine, cord, or similar
material that can easily be cut or chewed through; any tethering system shall
not be acceptable for any animal declared dangerous.
   (C)   (1)   Dogs may only be tethered using an overhead trolley, zip line,
or running line system, and must have access to shelter, shade, and water.
      (2)   Cats are not allowed to be tethered.
   (D)   (1)   Tethers must be attached to a properly fitting collar or harness
worn by the animal. Tethers may not be wrapped around an animal’s neck or body
to replace a collar or harness.
      (2)   All tethering devices must have a swivel device on the anchor and
collar or harness end to prevent tangling.
   (E)   (1)   All collars and harnesses used for the purpose of tethering an
animal must be made of nylon, leather, or other durable and non-metallic
material and be specifically designed for the restraint of animals.
      (2)   A chain, choke, pinch, prong collar, or head halter shall not be
utilized for tethering purposes.
      (3)   The use of properly fitted head halters shall not apply to equine
and livestock.
   (F)   All collars or harnesses must be checked regularly for proper fit to
avoid causing injury or becoming embedded into the animal’s body.
   (G)   Tethers must be at least six feet in length or at least three times
the length of the animal.
   (H)   No tether shall weigh more than one-eighth of the animals’ body
weight.
   (I)   No dog shall be tethered that has not been spayed or neutered.
   (J)   No dog under six months of age shall be tethered.
   (K)   (1)   No person shall tether a dog to a fixed point, such as a
building, shelter, tree, enclosure, or other stationary object, unless
tethering is for a duration of no longer than 15 minutes.
      (2)   A person may temporarily tether a dog to a fixed point to complete
a temporary task, such as, but not limited to: vacuuming; mopping floors; or
moving furniture, so long as the person is located on the same physical
property as the tethered dog.
   (L)   If one or more animals at a residence have required a response from an
animal control officer to untangle tethers more than two times in a 12-month
period, it shall be a violation of this section, and the animals may be
impounded.
   (M)   In addition to the requirements above, under this definition,
RESTRAINT FOR EQUINES, LIVESTOCK, AND POULTRY shall mean as follows.
      (1)   (a)   All equine and livestock shall be confined by an enclosure in
good repair or construction sufficient to prevent the animal from leaving the
owner’s property.
         (b)   Equine and livestock found on property, but not restrained by a
tether or an enclosure in good repair or sufficient construction, may be
impounded at the owner’s expense, and the owner charged with a violation of
this chapter.
      (2)   All poultry should be kept in an enclosure of sufficient height and
construction to prevent the animal from leaving the enclosure; and provide a
safe environment from predators.
         (a)   Poultry may not be tethered. Poultry found on properly, but not
restrained by an enclosure, may be impounded at the owner’s expense, and the
owner charged with a violation of this chapter, unless under the direct
supervision of the owner to prevent poultry from leaving the owner’s property.
         (b)   All poultry must be provided with access to shelter and a shaded
area.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.004  EXHIBITIONS OR PARADES OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any exhibitions or parades of animals may be conducted only upon
securing a permit from the County Sheriff or Board of Commissioners’ office.
   (B)   The animal shelter and its offsite locations will be exempt from this
section.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.005  SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   Impound fees for animals.
Impoundment Type Fee
Impoundment Type                          Fee
After-hours impound of an animal          $30, plus $10.50 per day boarding
Animal; first impoundment of an animal    $20, plus $10.50 per day boarding
Animals held for court/township           $30, $20 per day boarding
Animal; second impoundment of same animal $45, plus $10.50 per day boarding
Animal; third or subsequent impoundment   $85, plus $10.50 per day boarding
Animal for quarantine period held/        $200, plus $30 each additional day
processed
Horse/livestock; first impound            $40, plus $40 per day boarding
Horse/livestock; second impound           $85, plus $40 per day boarding
Horse/livestock; third or subsequent      $110, plus $40 per day boarding
impoundment
Transportation of an animal               $ 35, plus $15 if tranquilizer needed
 
   (B)   Health care fee for animals.
 
Health Service                        Fee
Health care package¹                 $17.50
Impound adoption health care package²$72.50
Microchipping of an animal³          $25, plus $15 for any tranquilizer needed
¹ The health care package for canines includes application of flea
preventative, wormer, distemper, parvo, and bordetella. The health care package
for felines includes application of flea preventative, wormer, distemper, and
ear mile treatment.
² Impound adoption health care fee includes microchip, spaying or neutering,
FIV or Heartworm test, and the health care package for canines or felines.
³ Microchips are available, by appointment, only after all fees are paid.
 
   (C)   Animal license/permits.
 
License/Permit Type Fee
Altered animals     $5
Dangerous animals   $100
Duplicate license   $4.50
Lifetime license    $25
Unaltered animals   $35
 
   (D)   Adoptions.
 
Adoption Type          Fee
Canines                $80 ($25, $55)
Felines under 4 pounds $60 ($15, $45)
Felines over 4 pounds  $20 ($10, $10)
 
      (1)   Holding for adoption. When requested, an adoptable animal can be
placed on hold for 24 hours at a cost of $5 per animal. This fee is not to be
applied to the adoption cost of the animal and will be considered a donation
for this service.
      (2)   Take a chance on me. A fee of $80 (for canines only), which shall
be refunded within 60 days of return.
      (3)   Take me out of the shelter. A fee of $80, plus $10 per day, shall
apply for canines only. The $80 is to be refunded within 60 days of return, but
the per-day fee shall not be returned.
      (4)   Adoption guarantee program. A $25 non-refundable health and
temperament evaluation fee shall apply.
         (a)   For the first 12 days, the fee is $75, if there is proof of
being spayed/neutered and is current on shots.
         (b)   The fee is $100 if the pet is unaltered or has no shots.
         (c)   Other types of animal adoption fees are to be determined by the
Director.
   (E)   Owner has requested euthanasia.
 
Animal Classifications         Fee
Animals less than 20 pounds    $45, plus $15 for any tranquilizer needed
Animals 20 pounds to 50 pounds $60, plus $20 for any tranquilizer needed
Animals 50 pounds or over      $75, plus $25 for any tranquilizer needed
 
   (F)   Just disposal of animal carcasses.
 
Animal Classifications          Fee
Animals less than 20 pounds     $20
Animals 20 pounds to 50 pounds¹$30
Animals 50 pounds or over¹     $40
¹ No animal carcass with a weight in excess of 25 pounds, except that of a
canine, shall be accepted for disposal.
 
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 2015-16, passed 12-15-2015)
REGISTRATION AND VACCINATION
§ 93.020  CATS; REGISTRATION AND LICENSING.
   (A)   (1)   Any person owning, harboring, or having custody of a cat within
the county must obtain a license within 15 days of obtaining the animal.
Licenses, except for lifetime licenses, shall be valid for one year from date
of issue.
      (2)   Any person not eligible to obtain a license may not own a cat.
   (B)   (1)   Applications for licenses shall be made to the animal shelter.
      (2)   If the applicant withholds or falsifies any information on the
application, no license shall be issued.
      (3)   Any licenses issued upon false or withheld information shall be
null and void.
   (C)   Application shall include: species; breed; gender; name of the animal;
whether the animal has been altered; a current rabies certificate, if required,
issued by a licensed veterinarian; and the name, telephone number, and address
of the owner.
   (D)   It shall be within the discretion of the animal shelter whether to
issue a license if there have been three or more violations of this chapter
within 12 months’ time.
   (E)   Upon issuance of the license and payment of all fees, the animal
shelter shall issue to the applicant a durable tag stamped with an
identification number. The animal shelter shall maintain a record of the
identifying number of all tags issued.
   (F)   The animal shelter shall charge fees for animal licenses and certain
other charges pursuant to §
93.005. The animal shelter shall deposit all monies collected from this section
into the Non-Reverting Fund for the Animal Control Runs Fund with the City
Controller. The fees shall be collected by the animal shelter, or by its fiscal
agent.
   (G)   The license fee may be waived for certified service animals and
governmental police dogs. These shall still be registered with the animal
shelter and must obtain a license, as any other.
   (H)   The owner of any animal deemed by a veterinarian to be unfit to
undergo a spaying or neutering operation shall be, upon presentation of written
certification to that effect by a licensed veterinarian, charged the fee for an
altered animal.
   (I)   No person shall use a license for any animal other than the animal for
which it was issued.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.021  EXOTIC ANIMAL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All exotic animals, as defined this chapter, shall be registered with
the animal shelter.
   (B)   Registration shall include the name, address, and phone number of the
owner, and a description of the animal to aid animal control officers in
finding the owners of any animal running at large or during an emergency.
   (C)   Any fee for registration may be waived by the animal shelter.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.022  DOGS, CATS, AND FERRETS OVER THREE MONTHS TO BE INOCULATED.
   It shall be unlawful to own, possess, keep, or harbor any dog, cat, or
ferret over the age of three months within the county unless that animal has
been inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and the inoculation
period has not expired.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 93.035  IMPOUNDMENT AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any animal which is found by an animal control officer to be in
violation of this chapter may be impounded and confined in a humane manner
until reclaimed by its owner, or otherwise disposed of, in accordance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Impounded animals, except those suffering from an injury or physical
condition which causes the animal to suffer, shall be kept and maintained by
the animal shelter for the following state periods:
      (1)   Impounded animals shall be kept and maintained three days, not
including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays recognized by the Board of
Commissioners; and
      (2)   Quarantined animals shall be kept and maintained ten days from the
day the bite and/or scratch occurs.
   (C)   Animal control officers are authorized to go on or about private
property to seize an animal; if an animal is seized, the animal control officer
shall issue a written notice of seizure and leave it with the owner, or affix
it to the premises from which the animal was seized.
   (D)   Impounded domestic pets, other than feral cats, shall be kept three
business days, unless reclaimed by their owner. If the owner can be identified
by means of a license tag, collar ID, microchip, rabies tag, or other means
physically attached to, or upon, the body of the animal, the impounding agency
shall notify the owner of the impoundment of the animal, and the animal will be
held for five days, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays recognized
by the Board of Commissioners, unless reclaimed by the owner.
      (1)   Animals not reclaimed by their owners within the established time
periods, and those not placed in suitable new homes after such time, may be
humanely euthanized. However, if an impounded animal has an injury or physical
or medical condition which causes the animal, or other domestic animals, to
suffer, the animal shelter may immediately humanely euthanize the animal.
      (2)   (a)   For the purposes of this chapter, the impoundment term shall
commence on the date of delivery of the animal to the place of impoundment and
not the date of notification of the owner.
         (b)   An owner desiring to reclaim an impounded animal shall comply
with, and pay such fees as provided by, the terms and provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   (a)   If an animal has been impounded because of a violation to
this chapter, the animal shelter may refuse to release the animal to its owner
until the owner gives reasonable assurances that the conditions have been
corrected, or a court order is given requiring the animal shelter to relinquish
the animal back to the owner.
         (b)   These assurances may be verified by an animal control officer
before releasing the animal back to the owner.
      (4)   If an animal has been impounded for any violation of this chapter
and such animal was adopted from the animal shelter or one of its offsite
locations, the animal shelter may refuse to release such animal to the owner.
   (E)   Animals not reclaimed by their owners within the applicable time
period may thereafter be placed in suitable homes, or may be humanely
euthanized. Unclaimed animals that have been placed under rabies quarantine
shall be humanely euthanized.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.036  REMOVAL OF ANIMALS IN IMMEDIATE DANGER.
   Any animal observed by an animal control officer to be in immediate danger
may be removed from such situation by the quickest and most reasonable means
available.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 93.037  ANIMAL SHELTER TO RECORD DATA.
   Immediately after impounding any animal, the animal control officer shall
enter upon the records of the animal shelter the date of impoundment, a
description of the animal impounded, and the location where the animal was
impounded. A list of impounded animals shall be kept at the animal shelter.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 93.038  IMPOUNDING FEE; BOND.
   (A)   The animal shelter shall charge impounding fees, boarding charges, and
certain other fees pursuant to §
93.005. The fees shall be collected by the shelter, or by its fiscal agent.
   (B)   The owner of an animal that has been impounded under this chapter and
charged with a violation of this chapter may prevent disposition of the animal
by the animal shelter caring for the animal by posting, not later than three
days after the animal has been impounded, a bond with the animal shelter in an
amount sufficient to provide for the animal’s care and keeping for at least 30
days, beginning from the date the animal was impounded.
      (1)   The owner may renew a bond by posting a new bond, in an amount
sufficient to provide for the animal’s care and keeping for at least an
additional 30 days, not later than five days after the expiration of the period
for which a previous bond was posted. If a bond expires and is not renewed, the
animal shelter may determine disposition of the animal.
      (2)   If the owner of an animal impounded under this section is found
guilty, or signs an agreement with conditions of an offense under this chapter,
the owner shall forfeit the bond to the animal shelter to reimburse the animal
shelter for the expense of the animal’s care and keeping.
      (3)   If the owner has paid a bond under this chapter, the animal shelter
may still euthanize an animal if a veterinarian determines that an animal is
suffering extreme pain.
   (C)   If the owner requests, the court or the Animal Control Authority,
having jurisdiction of charges filed under this chapter or I.C. 15-20-1 shall
hold a hearing to determine whether probable cause exists to believe that a
violation of this chapter or I.C. 15-20-1stateRef has occurred. If the court
determines that probable cause does not exist, the court may order the animal
returned to its owner, and the return of any bond posted by its owner.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.039  REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   The owner of an animal may redeem the animal by paying all the costs
and fines assessed that have accrued up to the time of making the redemption,
plus the license fee for the animal, if required. Any animal not claimed by an
owner, in accordance with the time periods described in this chapter, shall
become the property of the animal shelter and may be disposed of in any manner,
as is in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   An application for redemption must be filed by the owner, if at all,
prior to the expiration of the impoundment term.
      (1)   If the owner cannot be identified, the animal shelter may request
reasonable proof of ownership as a condition for the release of the animal. For
purposes of this section, proof of ownership may include: bills of sale; photos
depicting the animal and the owner; vet records with owners name; and/or
similar evidence.
      (2)   In the event of the existence of a controversy pertaining to the
ownership or right of possession of an impounded animal, the animal shelter may
refuse redemption except upon the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal impounded may be released only upon the application
for redemption and after being fitted with a microchip, to facilitate future
identification of the animal and owner.
      (2)   Any animal impounded two times within a 12-month period may be
released only upon application for redemption and conditioned upon the spaying
or neutering of the animal.
      (3)   The cost of either such procedures shall be paid by the owner of
the animal. The animal shelter may release any animal at its discretion without
an application for a microchip or spaying or neutering.
   (D)   Any animal deemed to be suffering with extreme pain due to possible
injury or apparent disease may be humanely euthanized before the holding period
has expired.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited methods of destruction, see I.C. 35-46-3-15(b)
§ 93.040  EUTHANASIA AND DISPOSAL OF PRIVATELY OWNED ANIMALS.
   The animal shelter shall have the ability to charge the owner of any animal
certain fees to euthanize and dispose of said animal, in accordance with §
93.005.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
DANGERS AND NUISANCES
§ 93.055  ANIMALS AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   No owner shall allow an animal to be a nuisance, as defined in this chapter.
Any person who violates this section shall be subject to the penally provided
in §
93.999.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.056  PERMITTING ANIMALS TO RUN AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any owned animal of any kind to run at
large. All animals shall be kept under restraint at all times, as defined in
this chapter, and any deviation or violation thereof is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   The foregoing provision in division (A) above shall not apply:
      (1)   If the owner is engaged in legal hunting activities with an active
hunting license, if required, and the animal in question has been trained to
assist in hunting, and the animal’s activities are being supervised by the
hunter; or
      (2)   In any section of a public park designated as a leash-free zone.
   (C)   Dangerous animals are not allowed to be in any area designated as a
leash-free zone.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.057  DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
         (a)   Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings
or other domestic animals by virtue of a known propensity to endanger life by
unprovoked assault or bite or scratch so as to cause serious bodily harm;
         (b)   Any animal that approaches a human being or other domestic
animal upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds in a vicious or
terrorizing manner or an attitude of aggression when unprovoked;
         (c)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury to, or otherwise endanger the safety of, a
human being or other domestic animal;
         (d)   Any animal which bites, inflicts injury to, or otherwise attacks
a human being or other domestic animal without provocation on public or private
property;
         (e)   Any animal which scratches, inflicts injury, assaults, or
otherwise attacks a human being or other domestic animal without provocation on
public or private property;
         (f)   Any animal which behaves in such a manner that the owner
therefor knows, or should reasonably know, that the animal possesses a tendency
to attack, bite, or scratch a human being or other domestic animal;
         (g)   Any animal certified by a licensed or certified aggression dog
trainer, evaluator, or behaviorist after observation thereof, as posing a
danger to a human being or other domestic animal, if not kept in a manner
required by this chapter upon the basis of behavioral probability;
         (h)   Any animal that cannot be vaccinated against rabies with an
approved rabies vaccine, and any animal which has no established rabies
quarantine observation period; and
         (i)   An animal may not be deemed DANGEROUS solely because:
            1.   It bites, scratches, attacks, or menaces:
               a.   Anyone assaulting its owner. This shall not include any law
enforcement officer attempting to subdue or affect the arrest or detain of a
suspect;
               b.   It has attacked, or attempted to attack, any person or
animal that has tormented or abused it.
            2.   It is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person
or other animal upon its owner or any other person;
            3.   It is defending its offspring and is on its owners property;
            4.   Anyone entering the owner’s property to commit robbery,
burglary, assault, or other crime, or entering a secured building without
permission. Simple trespassing by a person onto private property may not be
considered provocation for any attack;
            5.   It is severely injured or incapacitated; and/or
            6.   Any animals which are employed by a law enforcement department
in the state, or any animal which has been certified either nationally or by
the state for use in law enforcement work; provided the animal is owned and in
the possession of the handler and/or for whom the certification was meant.
   (B)   Enclosures for dangerous animals.
      (1)   Enclosures for dangerous animals shall be a covered fence or
fabricated structure at least six feet in height, installed beneath ground
level, or in concrete or pavement to prevent digging under it, and with a
gravel or concrete floor; and of a sufficient size to allow the animal to
stand, sit, and turn around in a natural position, and which allows for
adequate exercise for the size/breed being kept.
      (2)   Enclosures shall be designed to prevent the entry of children or
unauthorized persons. Such enclosures shall be securely locked with a
combination or key lock which has been designed to prevent accidental or
malicious opening of the enclosure.
      (3)   The enclosure must contain proper shelter, a shaded area, and be
properly ventilated. The owner’s residence, other existing residence, and/or
storage building are not appropriate enclosures for a dangerous animal, unless
approved by an animal control officer. Any structure may be subject to approval
by the county’s Building Department, and it is the responsibility of the owner
to comply with building codes, if required.
   (C)   Restraint for a dangerous animals. Restraint for a dangerous animals
shall be:
      (1)   On the premises of the owner and confined in a secure enclosure, as
previously defined; or
      (2)   If off the premises of the owner, the animal must be accompanied by
the owner and securely muzzled and restrained with a leather or nylon lead or
leash having the tensile strength to restrain the animal and not to exceed six
feet in length.
         (a)   The lead or leash must be under the control of a person over the
age of 18 years of age and physically able to restrain the animal.
         (b)   The muzzle shall be made in such a manner that will not cause
injury to the animal or interfere with the animal’s vision or respiration, but
shall prevent the animal from biting any human being or other animal.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.058  DUTY OF OWNERS OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dangerous animal to exercise
reasonable care and to take all necessary steps and precautions to protect
other people, property, and animals from injuries or damage which might result
from the animal’s behavior, regardless of whether such behavior is motivated by
mischievousness, playfulness, or ferocity.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every owner of an animal that resides on
rental property to notify the property owner if that animal has been declared
dangerous.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dangerous animal to ensure
that the animal is kept under control, and that reasonable care and precautions
are taken to prevent the animal from leaving, while unattended, the real
property limits of its owner, possessor, or custodian, and that:
      (1)   It is securely and humanely enclosed within an enclosure, as
described in this chapter, out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump, or
otherwise escape on its own; and such enclosure must be securely locked at
anytime the animal is left unattended;
      (2)   In the event the animal is outside of its dwelling unit and
enclosure, the animal shall be securely muzzled and restrained with a lead or
leash, and shall be under the direct control of its owner;
      (3)   Any animal placed under the definition in §
93.057 is to be spayed or neutered at the expense of the owner;
      (4)   Any animal placed under the definition in §
93.057 is to be microchipped at the expense of the owner;
      (5)   Any animal declared a dangerous animal shall purchase and maintain
a current license for a dangerous animal, if required;
      (6)   The owner of a dangerous animal shall display a sign on his or her
property or premises warning that there is a dangerous animal on the premises.
The sign shall be visible and capable of being read from a public right-of-way;
      (7)   The owner shall immediately notify the animal shelter or the County
Sheriff if a dangerous animal is loose, has attacked another animal or a human
being, or has died;
      (8)   The animal may be impounded to make whatever inquiry is deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
animal control officer is hereby empowered to seize and impound any dangerous
animal whose owner fails to comply with the provisions hereof, subject to the
right of such owner to contest the seizure or impoundment, as provided in this
chapter, in the county court; the animal will be retained by the animal shelter
during the pendency of any such proceeding, if the owner posts a bond pursuant
to §
93.038, and the animal shelter shall have the power to dispose of any such
animal prior to the termination of any court proceedings if no bond is posted,
or the bond is allowed to lapse, in accordance with §
93.038;
      (9)   In the event that any animal previously placed under §
93.057 is found running at large or in violation of this chapter, the animal
will be impounded by an animal control officer and euthanized;
      (10)   Any owner of an animal declared a dangerous animal shall not sell,
transfer, give away, or use, and other form of disposition of the animal other
than surrender of the animal to the animal shelter;
      (11)   Any owner of an animal declared as dangerous shall request
authorization from the animal shelter to change the location of the animal. The
new location, if authorized, shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter; and
      (12)   In the event that the owner of the animal refuses to surrender the
animal to an animal control officer, the animal control officer may request a
warrant to seize the animal upon execution of the warrant.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.059  ANIMALS AFFLICTED WITH CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
   No domestic or exotic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious
disease shall be allowed to run at large, or be exposed in any public place
within the county whereby the health of human or animal may be affected; nor
shall such diseased animal be shipped or removed from the premises of the
owner, except for the purposes of transporting directly to obtain veterinary
assistance, or by the order of the Chief of the Police Department in the Civil
City of New Albany, or the County Sheriff within the unincorporated areas of
the county, or an animal control officer.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.060  RABIES QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal which has caused injury and/or death to a human by means of
a bite and/or scratch shall be quarantined. The quarantine shall be consistent
with the practices, rules, and regulations of the County Health Department and
the State Board of Animal Health.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner or caretaker who fails to properly quarantine his or
her animal is subject to citation for violation of this chapter, and the animal
may be impounded at the animal shelter, a licensed animal clinic, or animal
hospital for the reminder of its quarantine period.
      (2)   The owner or caretaker shall be responsible for all applicable
fees, as set forth in §
93.005, during the quarantine period, if held at the animal shelter.
   (C)   Any animal whose owner is unavailable or incapable of quarantining the
animal is subject to the animal being taken by an animal control officer and
quarantined at the animal shelter, a licensed animal clinic, or an animal
hospital for the quarantine period.
   (D)   (1)   Any owner of an animal which must be quarantined may elect to
board such animal at the animal shelter for the quarantine period, if space is
available.
      (2)   Any owner of an animal which must be quarantined may elect to
surrender such animal to the animal shelter, the owner shall be responsible for
all applicable fees, as set forth in §
93.005, during the quarantine period, if held at, or surrendered to, the animal
shelter.
   (E)   Any quarantined animal not reclaimed by an owner within 24 hours of
the expiration of the prescribed period of quarantine shall be humanely
euthanized.
   (F)   Any human bitten and/or scratched by an animal, or any physician,
other medical professional, or medical institution treating such an injury,
shall report the bite and/or scratch to the animal shelter and/or the County
Health Department within 24 hours.
   (G)   Any animal that cannot be vaccinated against rabies with an approved
rabies vaccine, or any animal which has no established rabies quarantine
observation period, which bites and/or scratches a human, is to be euthanized,
and its head shall be sent to the State Department of Heath for examination at
the expense of its owner or harborer for examination for rabies.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
CRUELTY TOWARDS ANIMALS
§ 93.075  ANIMALS AS PRIZES OR INDUCEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to give away any live animal as a prize for, or as an
inducement to enter any, contract, game, or other competition, or as an
inducement to enter a place of amusement; or offer such animal as an incentive
to enter in any business agreement in which the offer is for the purpose of
attracting trade. The animal shelter and its offsite locations will be exempt
from this section.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.076  CRUEL TREATMENT OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, CRUELTY means any act prohibited by this
section. No person shall cause infliction of pain, any form of bodily injury,
or death to an animal by:
      (1)   Striking, beating, dropping, throwing, kicking, dragging, choking,
or by the use of an object or weapon;
      (2)   Means of caustic, flammable, chemical, boiling, or heated
substances; causing suffering, any form of bodily injury, or death by
suffocation or drowning;
      (3)   Failing to provide adequate food, water, and shelter; and/or
      (4)   Failing to detect the need for, or withholding, veterinary care,
including care and maintenance of skin and coat, and/or creating, or allowing,
unhealthy living conditions, whether by intentional or by severe omission.
   (B)   No person shall engage, participate, or be present in any acts or
actions as defined as cruelty or neglect in this chapter. No person shall
cruelly treat or torment and/or neglect any animal.
   (C)   (1)   In the event there is a reasonable cause to suspect that an
animal is being a victim of cruelty or neglect, custody of such animal may be
taken by an animal control officer and impounded at the animal shelter.
      (2)   If claimed by its owner within the time limit, as defined in this
chapter, the animal may be held as evidence and confined in a humane manner.
Any owner or caretaker shall be responsible for all fees, as defined in this
chapter.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, CRUELTY and/or NEGLECT of an animal
shall also be defined as a failure by a person to adhere to the remedies and
requisites ordered by an animal control officer to comply with the requirements
and provisions of any sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.077  ANIMAL FIGHTING; EXHIBITION FIGHTING.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit any dogfight, cockfight, or other
combat between animals. In the event there is a reasonable cause to suspect
that an animal is involved in a dogfight, cockfight, or other combat, custody
of such animal, and all animals on the same property, may be taken by an animal
control officer and impounded at the animal shelter. The animal may be held as
evidence and confined in a humane manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall own, possess, keep, train, exercise, breed, or
raise any dog or other carnivore, bird, or animal with the intent that such dog
or other carnivore, bird, or animal be utilized, sold, given, or leased for
fighting and/or engaged in an exhibition of fighting.
      (2)   In the event that a person owns, possesses, keeps, trains,
exercises, breeds, or raises any dog or other carnivore, bird, or animal, and/
or engages in an exhibition of fighting or selling, leasing, or giving such
animals for fighting, such person shall be liable for citation for violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall be present at any dogfight, cockfight, animal
fighting, or combat between animals. In the event that a person is present at a
dogfight, cockfight, animal fighting, or combat between animals, such person
shall be liable for citation for violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Any person who is found present at a dogfight, cockfight, or combat
between animals, and/or any person who is in possession of an animal that may
be used in an animal fight, may be charged with intent to engage in an
exhibition of fighting in violation of this chapter. Any animal shall be seized
and impounded, as defined in this chapter, if found on the premises, or in the
immediate area of the dogfight, cockfight, or combat between animals.
   (E)   No person may own, possess, keep, or utilize any animal fighting
paraphernalia with the intent to train, condition, and/or fight any animal.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.078  PROVISION OF NECESSITIES.
   (A)   Any owner or caretaker shall provide his or her animal with a good and
adequate amount of wholesome food to maintain a healthful level of nutrition.
Any owner or caretaker shall provide and maintain a constant and reachable
supply of fresh and clean water, at all times, for his or her animal.
   (B)   (1)   All animals shall be provided with adequate shelter and
protection from the weather at all times; it shall be the discretion of animal
control officers to determine what constitutes adequate shelter and protection
from the weather.
      (2)   In addition to the shelter, a shaded area shall also be provided by
means of other structures, trees, tarps, or awnings. Insulating or appropriate
bedding materials, such as straw or other materials that dry quickly, shall be
provided during inclement weather. Shelters must be cleaned and maintained
regularly so as to promote proper health for the animals being kept. Equine and
livestock animals may be exempt from requiring shelter.
   (C)   Any owner or caretaker shall provide to his or her animal proper,
humane medical and veterinary care and treatments when sick, diseased, injured,
or for the purpose of preventing suffering.
   (D)   Any owner or caretaker of an animal shall maintain an appropriate
environment with clean and healthful living area for any animal being kept,
which area shall be free of accumulated waste and debris so that the animal
shall be free to walk or lie down without coming in contact with any such waste
or debris. All living areas shall be constructed and maintained to promote
drainage of rainwater to prevent the accumulation of mud and/or water.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.079  SEXUAL ACTS WITH ANIMALS.
   No person shall engage, or cause to allow any other person to engage, in a
sexual act with any animal.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.080  ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   No person shall abandon an owned animal. ABANDONMENT consists of
leaving an animal for a period in excess of 24 hours, without providing and
checking on the animal’s condition, or failure to contact the animal shelter,
if a request to contact is left on the property where the animal is.
   (B)   No person shall leave an animal by a roadside or other area, or leave
such animal on either public or private property, without the property owner’s
consent.
      (1)   In the event that an animal is found so abandoned, such animal may
be taken by an animal control officer and impounded at the animal shelter, and
there confined in a humane manner. Such animal, if taken from private property,
shall be kept for not less than the prescribed period in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §
93.035.
      (2)   When a caretaker is mandated by the owner of such and the animal is
so abandoned, the caretaker may be subject to a citation for violation of this
section and all fees as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   An animal control officer is authorized to impound any animal if the
animal control officer deems that the condition of the animal requires
immediate care or veterinary treatment and/or upon finding reasonable suspicion
of abandonment, and/or believe the animal needs to be removed for humane
reasons. The animal control officer is authorized to go on and about private
property to investigate any abandonment to establish, or not, reasonable
suspicion of abandonment.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.081  KEEPING PLACES OF HABITATION CLEAN.
   (A)   No person shall cause, or allow, any place where any domestic or
exotic animal is, or may be, kept to become unclean or unwholesome, but shall
keep the area clean, sanitary, and free from all refuse and rodents.
      (1)   Such area shall be cleaned at least once every 48 hours; it shall
be unlawful to permit any decaying food, excreta, or any refuse of any kind to
remain in such areas.
      (2)   Refuse from such areas shall, when swept or collected, be kept in
containers until disposed of in accordance with the ordinances of the county.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or caretaker of an animal to
permit, or allow, such animal to excrete feces on school grounds, parks, or
other public property, or on any private property, other than that of the owner
or person in charge or control of such animal, without the permission of the
owner of said property, or on any streets, sidewalk, or highways, unless the
owner or person in control of such animal immediately removes all feces
deposited by such animal and disposes of same in a sanitary manner.
   (C)   This section may not apply to persons accompanied by a service animal
used for his, her, or their assistance.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.082  ALLOWING ANIMALS TO REMAIN IN PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to leave an animal in a vehicle when the
conditions in that vehicle would pose a health hazard to the animal. Animal
control officers are authorized to seize such animal under these conditions.
   (B)   Damages incurred to such vehicles during the seizure of such animal
shall be at the expense of the vehicle owner.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 93.095  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for any animal control officer to canvass any
dwelling unit, business, organization, and/or institution for the purpose of
ascertaining compliance with any section of this chapter and/or any state law
pertaining to animals.
   (B)   It shall be lawful for any animal control officer to go upon private
property to inspect the condition of any animal or investigate any violation of
this chapter and/or any state law pertaining to animals.
   (C)   It shall be lawful for any animal control officer to inspect any
dwelling unit, business, organization, and/or institution with the consent of
any owner or occupant, or by administrative or criminal search warrant, for the
purpose of an investigation of any violation of this chapter and/or state law
pertaining to animals.
   (D)   It shall be lawful for any animal control officer to go onto private
property to seize any animal pursuant to the sections of this chapter; or with
an order of a court of competent jurisdiction in this state; or for any
violation of this chapter and/or state law pertaining to animals that causes an
animal control officer to believe that the situation endangers the health or
well-being, or is a life threatening condition for such animal; or such animal
needs to be removed for humane reasons, and/or requires immediate care or
veterinary treatment, or such animal poses a threat to public health or safety.
   (E)   It shall be lawful for any animal that is found by an animal control
officer to be running at large, a public nuisance, inhumanely or cruelly
treated, neglected, and/or has bitten/scratched another animal or human being,
is being kept in conditions which violate this chapter, or is posing imminent,
serious threat to human beings or other domestic animals, to be impounded at
the animal shelter, or any other place appropriate for the holding of animals
in a humane manner until released to the owner. The animal shelter may refuse
to release any animal to its owner until the owner comes into compliance with
this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to impoundment under this section, the owner may face
penalties pursuant to §
93.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.096  INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall, in any manner, interfere with, hinder, molest, or
abuse any officer or individual duly authorized to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall, in any manner, seek to release or remove any animal
in the custody of the animal shelter, or from any humane trap identified as the
property of the animal shelter.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.097  POWERS OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS.
   Animal control officers have the power to issue citations to people accused
of violating this chapter in accordance with its provisions regarding
enforcement procedures. Animal control officers have the power to enforce any
state laws or regulations regarding the use of animals in agriculture, cruelty
to animals, or animal disease prevention and care. Any violation of state law
must be referred to the office of the County Prosecutor.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 93.098  CUSTODIAL LIABILITY.
   In the event that the owner of any domestic or exotic animal is a minor, the
custodian, parent, or guardian legally responsible for such minor shall be
liable for all violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.099  AUTHORITY TO KILL ANIMALS.
   Animal control officers are authorized to kill any animal of any kind when
it is necessary to do so for the protection of any person, other animal, or
property.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 93.100  DESTRUCTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No animal shall be destroyed within three days of being impounded,
unless necessary to prevent or stop an attack upon a person or another animal,
or for humane reasons related to sickness or injury of the animal, or as
otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   (1)   An impounded animal shall not be destroyed pending an owner’s
appeal of a court order of destruction.
      (2)   The animal control officer shall have the burden of proving that
the animal should be destroyed pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.101  POWERS OF THE ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   The Animal Control Authority was established by an interlocal cooperation
agreement between the county and the City of New Albany on May 20, 1999,
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-7 et seq., and all the terms and
conditions contained therein are affirmed and incorporated by reference herein.
   (A)   The Animal Control Authority may uphold or reverse a decision made by
an animal control officer declaring that an animal is a public nuisance or
dangerous animal, as defined by this chapter.
      (1)   If such a decision is upheld, the Animal Control Authority may
place the owner of the animal on probation for a period of time determined by
the Animal Control Authority, which is deemed in the best interest of the
animal and the community.
      (2)   The Animal Control Authority may place restrictions on the owner
during the period of probation that are deemed in the best interest of the
animal and the community.
   (B)   Any and all appeals for permits, or revocation of permits, within this
chapter shall come before the Animal Control Authority for hearing.
   (C)   These hearings shall be recorded. Transcripts of these hearings may be
made at the expense of any person seeking review of the hearings.
   (D)   Appeals from the determinations of the Animal Control Authority may be
sent to the court of appropriate jurisdiction in accordance with, and subject
to the procedures and deadlines set out in, the provisions of the Indiana
Administrative Code regarding administrative appeals.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 93.102  MEETINGS WITH ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Animal Control Authority may, at its sole discretion, meet with
any person suspected of violating this chapter for the purpose of informal
negotiations to determine any penalties, or establish a plan to remedy
violations. People accused of violating this chapter may also request a
conference with the Animal Control Authority to resolve any claim of violation.
These negotiations shall be conducted informally for the purpose of peaceful
resolution of claimed violations of the chapter.
   (B)   Meetings conducted under this section shall be entitled to the
evidentiary privileges afforded to settlement negotiations under state law.
   (C)   Unless an agreement is arrived at, no representations made by any
party shall continue to bind that party should any official or judicial
proceeding be undertaken to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 93.103  RESOLUTION AND SETTLEMENTS.
   (A)   The Animal Control Authority and the accused person may enter into a
settlement agreement regarding the matters alleged in the report of the animal
control officer. Such a settlement agreement may provide for:
      (1)   Remedial actions to be undertaken by the accused;
      (2)   A time table by which such remedial actions must be performed; and/
or
      (3)   The waiver of fines, penalties, and other sanctions available under
this chapter.
   (B)   A settlement agreement entered into under this section must be reduced
to writing and signed by the person claimed to have violated the chapter, or
his or her representative, parent, or legal guardian; and the Animal Control
Authority, or its representative.
   (C)   A settlement entered into under this section is binding upon all the
parties and their heirs, successors, and assigns.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 93.104  JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If no settlement agreement is reached, or any settlement agreement is
breached by the person responsible animal, or if the Animal Control Authority
decides, in its sole discretion, that a settlement conference would be
unhelpful, or that a situation exists that requires immediate action, the
animal control officer may bring judicial proceedings to enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Judicial proceedings shall be brought by the County Attorney, or his
or her designee.
   (C)   Fines, judgments, and injunctive relief against violation of this
chapter may be sought in any such judicial proceedings, and any other remedies
available to the Animal Control Authority in law or equity.
   (D)   In addition to any, and all, other remedies available at law or
equity, a court may award the animal shelter all right, title, and interest in
any animal in any judicial proceeding brought to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 93.105  ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS; VIOLATION NOTICES.
   (A)   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding an unrestrained animal, or
for any other violation of this chapter, any animal control officer may issue a
citation to the owner or caregiver of such animal specifying the section, or
sections, of this chapter so violated and identifying the specific nature of
the violation. A person who receives a citation has 24 hours to correct the
violation, or he or she may be subject to additional penalties, or the animal
may be subject to impoundment, as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon complaint and execution by any citizen of a sworn affidavit that
said affiant has actual knowledge that any section of this chapter has been
violated, an animal control officer may constitute reasonable suspicion for an
investigation.
   (C)   Fines and penalties collected pursuant to this chapter shall be
collected, pursuant to §
93.005, and approved by the Board of Commissioners. The fees shall be collected
by the animal shelter, or by its fiscal agent, and deposited with the City
Controller, and shall be retained in the Non-Reverting Animal Control Runs
Fund.
   (D)   In addition to any, and all, other remedies available at law or
equity, a court may award the animal shelter all right, title, and interest in
any animal in any judicial proceeding brought to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS
§ 93.120  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any domestic animal, exotic animal, or wild animal.
   DEAD ANIMAL. An animal that has died other than by slaughter.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Cattle, calves, horses, mules, swine, sheep, goats, dogs,
cats, poultry, ostriches, rhea, emus, or other birds; or an animal of the
bovine, equine, ovine, caprine, porcine, canine, feline, avian, camelid,
cervidae, or bison species; or an aquatic animal that may be the subject of
aquaculture, as defined in I.C. 15-17-2-26.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. A flesh-eating wild animal.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, keeps, possesses, or harbors an animal.
   WILD ANIMAL. An animal that is not a domestic animal.
(Ord. 2010-XI, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 93.121  DISPOSAL.
   (A)   A person who owns or cares for an animal that has died from any cause
shall dispose of the animal’s body not later than 24 hours after knowledge of
death so as not to produce a nuisance. The disposal of the animal’s body must
be by one of the following methods:
      (1)   At an approved disposal plant;
      (2)   Burial upon the owner’s premises to such a depth that every part of
the animal’s body is at least four feet below the natural surface of the
ground, and every part of the animal’s body is covered with at least four feet
of earth, in addition to any other material that may be used as cover;
      (3)   Thorough and complete incineration, according to standards
established by an appropriate governmental agency; or
      (4)   Composting, according to standards approved by the State Board of
Health.
   (B)   (1)   Upon discovery of a dead animal by the New Albany/Floyd County
Animal Control and/or the County Health Department, the owner shall be
notified, if known, and shall be ordered to dispose of the remains immediately.
      (2)   If the owner is unknown, the animal control officer or County
Health Department’s representative shall notify the owner of the property upon
which the remains are located, and shall order the owner of the property to
dispose of the remains immediately.
(Ord. 2010-XI, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2010-XVII, passed 6-15-2010)  Penalty,
see §
93.999
§ 93.122  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If the owner of a dead animal fails to dispose of the dead animal
within 24 hours after receiving notice to dispose of said animal, the Health
Officer, or his or her designated representative, shall cause the remains to be
disposed of in a suitable manner.
   (B)   The owner of the dead animal, and/or the owner of the property on
which the dead animal is located, shall be liable for all costs associated with
the removal of the dead animal by the Health Officer, or his or her designated
representative, as well as any costs incurred in collecting the costs of
removal, including, but not limited to, attorney fees.
(Ord. 2010-XI, passed 4-20-2010)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.123  EFFECT.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to limit or contravene the
provisions of I.C. 15-17-11-1 et seq.
   (B)   All provisions of all prior chapters adopted by the Board of
Commissioners not specifically contradicted herein shall remain in full force
and effect.
(Ord. 2010-XI, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 93.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A first offender in violation of any provision of §§
93.004,
93.020 through
93.022,
93.056,
93.075 through
93.082,
93.096, and/or
93.099, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $200.
For any second or subsequent violation of any provision of §§
93.004,
93.020 through
93.022,
93.056,
93.075 through
93.082,
93.096, and/or
93.099, a person shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more
than $250.
      (2)   A first offender in violation of any provision of §§
93.057 and
93.058 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $250; in
the event that any animal previously placed under §§
93.057 and
93.058 is found in violation of this chapter, the animal will be impounded by
an animal control officer and euthanized.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-1-2015)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLING AND SOLICITATION
      
111.   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
112.   SWIMMING POOL AND SPA FACILITIES
      
113.   TATTOO PARLORS AND BODY PIERCING STUDIOS
      
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
115.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INTERNET
CHAPTER 110:  PEDDLING AND SOLICITATION
Section
Commercial Door to Door Solicitation
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Licensing requirement
   
110.03   County no-knock list
   
110.04   Required identification
   
110.05   Prohibited acts
   
110.06   Construction with other laws
 
   
110.99   Penalty
COMMERCIAL DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. Any purpose that proposes a commercial transaction.
   COMMERCIAL TRANSACTION. Any transaction involving the exchange of money,
goods, or services.
   COUNTY NO-KNOCK LIST. The list of names and addresses of residents of the
county who have indicated that they do not wish to receive solicitors.
   EMPLOYER. A person who pays a solicitor any salary, wage, or commission; and
any organization, corporation, or corporate group in whose name or under whose
auspices solicitation is done.
   NO-SOLICITING SIGN. A sign placed on or near a resident’s door facing the
street that indicates that solicitors are unwanted.
   NON-COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. Any purpose that would qualify as charitable,
educational, religious, or non-profit for the purpose of income tax exemption
under the Internal Revenue Code of the United States, as it exists now, or as
amended.
   POLITICAL PURPOSE. Any purpose having to do with candidates for public
office, public issues, or other matters of public concern, provided that it
does not involve a solicitor’s proposing a commercial transaction to the
resident.
   SOLICIT. To knock, ring a doorbell, or otherwise summon or attract the
attention of a resident of the county at his, her, or their home or place of
business.
      (1)   A SOLICITOR is someone who solicits.
      (2)   SOLICITATION is the act of soliciting.
(Ord. 2012-VI, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 110.02  LICENSING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   A person who wishes to solicit for a commercial purpose within the
county must obtain a license from the Board of Commissioners’ office.
   (B)   Applications for licenses as direct sellers, solicitors, or canvassers
shall be made to the Board of Commissioners’ office. The applicant shall give:
      (1)   His or her complete identification;
      (2)   His or her signature;
      (3)   The name of any employers;
      (4)   The nature of the product or services in which he or she is
interested;
      (5)   The names of the manufacturers of the products, or of the
organization he or she is representing, and the proposed method of operation in
the county; and
      (6)   The description and the number of vehicles, if any, intended to be
operated, in direct selling, soliciting or canvassing in the county.
   (C)   The data listed above shall be kept by the Board of Commissioners and
made available for public inspection.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners may charge a reasonable license fee for the
license. This fee shall be sufficient to cover the costs of administration of
the county no-knock list and the licensing program under this subchapter.
   (E)   Upon proper application and payment of the licensing fee, each
solicitor will be provided with a written license, a copy of the county no-
knock list, and a copy of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-VI, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 110.03  COUNTY NO-KNOCK LIST.
   (A)   Any resident of the county may add his or her name and address to the
county no-knock list by providing this information to the Board of
Commissioners. The purpose of the no-knock list is to inform solicitors that
they do not wish to be called upon.
   (B)   This information will be collected by the Board of Commissioners and
made available to solicitors in a readable, tabular form, indexed by the names
of the resident and by the names of the streets.
(Ord. 2012-VI, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 110.04  REQUIRED IDENTIFICATION.
   Solicitors for a commercial purpose must display, on demand, to any officer
of the county or any resident whom they have solicited:
   (A)   His, her, or their license;
   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number of their employer, and of any
organization on behalf of whom they are working; and/or
   (C)   Photographic identification sufficient to establish that he or she is
in fact the person to whom the license has been granted.
(Ord. 2012-VI, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 110.05  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   A person who solicits for a commercial purpose without having obtained
the license required by this subchapter shall be subject to the penalty
provided in §
110.99.
   (B)   Also subject to the penalty provided in §
110.99, any person who solicits for a commercial purpose at an address that:
      (1)   Is on the county no-knock list; or
      (2)   Displays a no-soliciting sign.
   (C)   A solicitor who fails to display, on demand, his or her license, the
name and address of any organization the solicitor is soliciting for, and
photographic identification to any resident, or any county officer of the
county or the state, shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
110.99.
   (D)   A person who submits any false or misleading information on the
application for the license required by this subchapter shall be subject to the
penalty provided in §
110.99.
(Ord. 2012-VI, passed 4-3-2012)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  CONSTRUCTION WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as excusing the duty to
comply with any other applicable laws.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as prohibiting any act
of solicitation for a non-commercial purpose or a political purpose.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed in such a manner as
conflicts with the freedom of speech and religion guaranteed under the United
States Constitution and the State Constitution.
   (D)   If any provision or section of this subchapter or the enforcement of
any such provision or section is held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court
of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or un-enforceability shall not
affect, render invalid, or render unenforceable any other provision.
(Ord. 2012-VI, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   A person who commits any prohibited act under §§
110.01 through
110.06 shall be subject to a fine of:
            1.   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
            2.   Not more than $250 for the second offense; and
            3.   Not more than $500 for the third and any subsequent offense.
      (b)   In addition to these fines, the license issued pursuant to §§
110.01 through
110.06 to any offender may be suspended or revoked.
      (c)   For the purpose of §§
110.01 through
110.06, each address at which a solicitation occurs constitutes a separate
offense.
      (2)   A resident who is on the county no-knock list, or who displays a
no-soliciting sign, may recover civil damages against the solicitor who
violates §§
110.01 through
110.06, against the solicitor’s employer, and against any organization on whose
behalf the solicitor was soliciting, jointly and severally, of $1,000 per
incident, in addition to any further damages the resident has sustained, plus
court costs and a reasonable attorney’s fee.
(Ord. 2012-VI, passed 4-3-2012)
CHAPTER 111:  RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permits
   
111.03   Permit fees
   
111.04   Inspection
   
111.05   Violations
   
111.06   Compliance and enforcement
   
111.07   Appeals
   
111.08   Conflict of interest
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   An operator occupied residence that:
         (a)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
         (b)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
         (c)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
         (d)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
      (2)   The term does not include hotels, motels, boarding houses or food
service establishments.
(410 I.A.C. 7-15.5-2)
   CHIEF FOOD SPECIALIST. The official, as defined below, who has primary
responsibility over bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
and temporary food establishment inspections.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. A situation in which the private financial interest of
the official, the official’s spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children,
and/or un-emancipated children may influence the judgment in the performance of
a public duty. The official may be subject to other ethical requirements in
addition to those set forth in this chapter.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The county’s Health Department, having
jurisdiction over a bed and breakfast establishments, retail food
establishments, and temporary food establishments.
   CRITICAL VIOLATION. A condition that is more likely than other violations to
significantly contribute to food contamination, illness, or an environmental
health hazard.
   ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SUPERVISOR. The official who has primary responsibility
over all Environmental Health Specialists.
   ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST. An official hired by the Health Officer and
designated as Environmental Health Specialist.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. (See 410 I.A.C. 7-24.)
A written document that delineates the formal procedures for following the
hazard analysis critical control point principles developed by the National
Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The person duly appointed, by the County Health Department
under I.C. 16-20-2-16, having jurisdiction in the county or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   HEARING BOARD. A subcommittee of the County Board of Health comprised of at
least four members of the County Board of Health. The HEARING BOARD shall not
include the Health Officer or any other employee of the County Health
Department.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any circumstance or situation which, in the opinion
of the Health Officer, presents a serious health risk to the public.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to an operator,
as defined below.
   OFFICIAL. Any Environmental Health Specialist of the county.
   OPERATOR. The person, as defined below, who has a primary oversight
responsibility for operation of the establishment through ownership, lease, or
contractual agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation,
display, transportation, or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. A County Health Department action of particular applicability that
determines the legal rights, duties, privileges, immunities, or other legal
interests of one or more specific persons, including a permit.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person, as defined below, to be an operator of a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, agent, association, business organization,
cooperative, corporation, entity, firm, institution, municipality or
governmental unit, partnership, proprietorship, school, trust, or estate.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. The individual present at a retail food establishment who
is responsible for the operation at the time of inspection.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. (See 410 I.A.C. 7-24.)
      (1)   An establishment that stores, prepares, packages, serves, or
otherwise provides food for human consumption, including:
         (a)   A restaurant;
         (b)   A satellite or catered feeding location;
         (c)   Catering operation if the operation provides food directly or
indirectly to a consumer;
         (d)   Market;
         (e)   Grocery store;
         (f)   A convenience store;
         (g)   An institution;
         (h)   A food bank;
         (i)   A food service establishment that relinquishes possession of
food to a consumer directly or indirectly through a delivery service, such as
home delivery of grocery orders or restaurant takeout orders, or other delivery
services;
         (j)   A vending location;
         (k)   A conveyance used to transport people;
         (l)   A commissary;
         (m)   A cottage industry;
         (n)   A hospice facility, as defined in I.C. 16-25-11;
         (o)   A health care facility, as defined in 16-21-2;
         (p)   A health care facility, as defined in I.C. 16-18-2; and
         (q)   A child care facility.
      (2)   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   An element of the establishment, such as a transportation
vehicle that supplies a vending location or satellite feeding location; or
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary, or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off
the premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
      (3)   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT does not include the following:
         (a)   An establishment that offers only prepackaged foods that are not
potentially hazardous;
         (b)   A produce stand that only offers whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables;
         (c)   A food processing plant operated under I.C. 16-42-5;
         (d)   A private home where food is prepared by a member of an
organization that is operating under I.C. 16-42-5-4 and is sold or offered for
human consumption;
         (e)   A bed and breakfast establishment as defined and regulated under
I.C. 16-41-31 and 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5stateRef;
         (f)   A private home that receives catered or home-delivered food;
         (g)   A private home which provides childcare and is not subject to
I.C. 12-13-5;
         (h)   A private home which provides residential care and is not
subject to I.C. 12-15 and/or I.C. 23-2-4stateRef; or
         (i)   A private home.
   RETAIL FOOD MARKET ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail food establishment, including,
but not limited to: a grocery store; convenience store; salvage store; discount
store; meat market; poultry market; fish market; fresh fruit and vegetable
market; delicatessen; confectionary; candy kitchen; nut store; retail bakery
store; or any food establishment, whether fixed or movable, where food is
intended primarily for human consumption off the premises of such retail food
establishment, is manufactured, produced, stored, prepared, handled, sold, or
offered with or without charge; provided, however, that the provisions of this
chapter shall not include meat or poultry slaughterhouses.
   RETAIL FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail food establishment, including,
but not limited to: a restaurant; coffee shop; cafeteria; short-order café;
luncheonette; tavern; sandwich stand; soda fountain; commissary; drive-in
restaurant; drink establishment; snack bar; food counter; dining room; food
catering facility; seasonal establishments opened for more than six months out
of the year; industrial feeding establishment; private, public, or non-profit
organization or institution routinely serving food; and any other eating or
drinking establishment where food or drink products are prepared, served, or
provided primarily for human consumption at such retail food establishment,
with or without charge. The term does not include private homes where food is
prepared or served for individual family consumption.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. (See 410 I.A.C. 7-24.) A retail food
establishment that operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in
conjunction with a single event or celebration.
(Ord. 2008-V, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 111.02  PERMITS.
   (A)   General. It is unlawful to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food establishment in
the county without first obtaining a permit from the County Health Department.
   (B)   Posting. The permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the
bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food
establishment.
   (C)   Separate permits. A separate permit shall be required for each bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food
establishment operated, or to be operated, by any person.
   (D)   Permit issuance. A permit may only be issued to persons who comply
with the applicable requirements of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
Any permit issued under this chapter is not transferable. Upon the change of
location of any bed and breakfast, retail food establishment, or temporary food
establishment, all existing permits become void. A permit shall not be sold,
assigned, licensed, or transferred.
   (E)   Term. Permits issued by the Health Officer shall be valid according to
the following periods:
      (1)   The permit for a retail food establishment or bed and breakfast
establishment shall be for a term of one year. Said permit shall be renewed
annually, beginning on July 1 of the current year and expiring on June 30 of
the following year; and
      (2)   The permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for a term
not to exceed 14 consecutive days. A temporary food establishment permit shall
be for the term of one continuous operation.
   (F)   Permit content. Permits issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the operator to whom the permit is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the Health Officer.
   (G)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
shall submit to the County Health Department a written application for a permit
on a form provided by the County Health Department (State Form 50033).
   (H)   Content of the application. The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number, and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit, and the name, mailing
address, and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment is owned by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership, or other legal entity;
      (3)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment;
      (4)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified hereunder such as
the zone, district, or regional supervisor;
      (5)   The names, titles, and addresses of:
         (a)   The person(s) comprising the legal owners of the operator and/or
the person authorized to accept service of process and notices; and
         (b)   The local resident agent of the operator or the person holding
the permit, if one is required for such operator or person.
      (6)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will comply with this chapter, and
allows the County Health Department access to the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/ or temporary food establishment
and records, as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
      (7)   Other information required by the County Health Department.
   (I)   Qualification. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time of issuance or renewal;
and
      (4)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment and provide
required information.
   (J)   Plan requirements.
      (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed
and breakfast establishment, and/or retail food establishment, shall submit to
the County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications, in
accordance with State Form 50004, plan review questionnaire, for review and
approval, before:
         (a)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment; or
         (c)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment, or a change of type of bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment, or food operation if the County
Health Department determines that plans and specifications are necessary to
ensure compliance with this section.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall include: the type of operation; type of
food preparation (as specified in Appendix B of the published version of 410
I.A.C. 7-24); and the menu.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
approved by County Health Department before a permit hereunder can be issued.
      (4)   A pre-operational inspection must show that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment is built, or remodeled, in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24, and/or 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5.
   (K)   Change of ownership. The County Health Department may renew a permit
for an existing bed and breakfast establishment, and/or retail food
establishment, or may issue a permit to a new owner of an existing bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment after a properly
completed application is submitted, reviewed, and approved, the fees are paid,
and an inspection shows that the establishment is in compliance with this
chapter.
   (L)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the County Health Department, the operator, in order to retain the permit,
shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter, all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein, and the conditions of any variances granted by the
State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at all
reasonable times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the County Health Department, including
time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices,
orders, warnings, and other directives issued by the County Health Department
in regard to the operator’s bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment, or in response to community emergencies;
      (5)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the County Health Department;
      (6)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment that is conspicuous to
consumers; and
      (7)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department.
   (M)   Equipment.
      (1)   All equipment installed in a food establishment for use in the
cleansing and bactericidal treatment of utensils, or in the preparation,
storing, handling, cleaning, sanitizing, serving, or displaying of any food or
beverage products, shall be of a type conforming with all applicable
requirements with regard to proper holding temperatures, design, construction,
location, and materials, as required in 410 I.A.C. 7-24, and as amended
hereafter.
      (2)   The County Health Department may prohibit the further use of any
equipment that fails to meet the requirements above.
(Ord. 2008-V, passed 4-15-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03  PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
in the county who has not paid the permit fee required to be paid for the
operation of such establishment.
   (B)   Permit fees to be paid for the issuance of a permit under this chapter
for a bed and breakfast establishment, a retail food establishment, and/or a
temporary food establishment shall be set by the County Health Department, as
provided by the statutes of the state (see I.C. 16-20-1-27), and as set forth
and approved by the County Council and the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   For permits which upon initial issuance will expire in fewer than 180
days from the date thereof, the applicant shall pay one-half of the fees set
forth by the County Health Department.
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the County
Health Department.
   (E)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
operated, or to be operated, by any person.
   (F)   (1)   A not-for-profit organization that offers food for sale to the
final consumer at an event held for the benefit of the organization is exempt
from the payment of fees. This exemption only applies to organizations that
meet the criteria addressed in I.C. 16-42-5-4.
      (2)   The Health Officer shall be provided, upon request, proof of an
organization’s tax exemption.
   (G)   A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the commencement
of operation of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
and/or temporary food establishment; and for failure to renew a permit prior to
its expiration shall be paid in the amount of 50% of the above annual fee for
such permit, or in such amount as set from time to time by the County Board of
Health.
   (H)   Credit for the payment of fees under this chapter is not transferable
or refundable.
   (I)   The application for any permit shall be tendered with the following
application fees:
      (1)   Each new retail food establishment shall be required to pay an
application fee of $100 for the review of plans and specifications and for the
initial inspection of such establishment. This fee is in addition to the permit
fee; and
      (2)   Permit fees for retail food establishments are payable as follows:
         (a)   Retail food market:
 
Size (Square Feet)          Fee
Up to, and including, 3,000 $125
3,001 to 10,000             $200
10,001 to 25,000            $250
25,001 to 50,000            $300
50,001 to 90,000            $375
90,001 and above            $450
 
         (b)   Retail food service:
 
Menu Type   Fee
Menu type 1 $175
Menu type 2 $225
Menu type 3 $275
Menu type 4 $325
Menu type 5 $400
 
         (c)   Temporary food establishments: $20 per day, not to exceed $100,
for a maximum of 14 days.
         (d)   Flat rate permit fees:
 
Establishment Type                                               Fee
Bed and breakfast                                                $150
Farmers market (potentially and non-potentially hazardous foods) $125
Mobile retail food establishment                                 $175
Retail food establishment operating less than 6 months per year  $175
 
         (e)   Prorated fee per month:
 
Retail Food Market          Fee
Up to, and including, 3,000 $10
3,001 to 10,000             $16
10,001 to 25,000            $20
25,001 to 50,000            $25
50,001 to 90,000            $31
90,001 and above            $37
 
 
Retail Food Service Fee
Menu type 1         $14
Menu type 2         $18
Menu type 3         $22
Menu type 4         $27
Menu type 5         $33
 
(Ord. 2008-V, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 2015-VII, passed 4-7-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  INSPECTION.
   (A)   General. The County Health Department shall inspect a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment bi-annually, or less
frequently, if indicated under the risk based assessment method as outlined by
the State Department of Health. The  County Board of Health may inspect more
frequently if a risk is posed by any of the following: the establishment has
had critical violations in the last inspection; the establishment serves an at-
risk population; or a consumer complaint or a report of a food-borne illness
has been reported to the Department.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The County Health Department shall
periodically inspect throughout its permit period a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells, or serves unpackaged, potentially hazardous
food, and may inspect a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells, or
serves unpackaged, non-potentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised, rather than permanent, facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as hand-washing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, ware-washing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal, and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (C)   Performance and risk-based inspections. Within the parameters for risk
specified above, the County Health Department shall prioritize and conduct more
frequent inspections, based upon its assessment of a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment’s history of compliance with
this chapter and the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment’s potential as a vector of food-borne illness by evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-
24, and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22, and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or
non-critical;
      (2)   Past performance for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-
15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24, and/or HACCP plan requirements that are non-
critical;
      (3)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be
valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored, or served;
      (5)   The type of operation, including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation, and service;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
   (D)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice. After the
officer, or an official, presents official credentials and provides notice of
the purpose of, and the intent to, conduct an inspection, the operator shall
allow the County Health Department to determine if the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
is in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the establishment,
allowing inspection, and providing information and records specified in this
chapter. Inspections shall be conducted during the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food establishment’s
hours of operation, and other reasonable times.
      (1)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
      (2)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law. (See I.C. 16-20-1-26.)
(Ord. 2008-V, passed 4-15-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the County
Health Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and
the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person in charge, as
required under I.C. 16-20-8-5.
   (B)   Timely correction of critical violations.
      (1)   Except as specified in division (B)(2) below, an operator shall, at
the time of inspection, correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410
I.A.C. 7-24, and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and implement corrective actions for a
HACCP plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit.
      (2)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Health Department may
agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator
to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (3)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the County Health Department shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the County Health Department’s records.
   (C)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment.
      (1)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator’s obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
      (2)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Health Department’s historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/
or temporary food establishment.
   (D)   Public information. Except as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-24, § 194
(Trade Secrets), the County Health Department shall treat the inspection report
as a public document and shall make it available for disclosure to a person who
requests it, as provided in law. (See I.C. 16-20-8-6.)
(Ord. 2008-V, passed 4-15-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06  COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or
temporary food establishment is denied, the County Health Department shall
provide the applicant with a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal, and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit suspension. The County Health Department may suspend a permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or
temporary food establishment if it determines, through any inspection, or
examination of records, or other means as specified in this chapter, that an
imminent health hazard exists.
   (C)   Permit revocation. The County Health Department may permanently revoke
a permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment if it is determined through
an inspection and examination of past and current inspections reports that
repeat and habitual critical violations exist, presenting an imminent health
hazard.
   (D)   Ceasing operation and contacting the County Health Department. An
operator of a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/
or temporary food establishment shall immediately discontinue operations and
notify the County Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist
because of an emergency, such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of
electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic
materials, onset of an apparent food-borne illness outbreak, gross unsanitary
occurrence or condition, or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an establishment that
is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (E)   Resuming operation. If only a portion of a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
is affected, the operator may continue operations in the unaffected portion;
provided there is no imminent health hazard to such unaffected portion.
Otherwise, the operator must obtain approval from the County Health Department
before resuming operations.
   (F)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a
permit may not be issued or may be suspended.
   (G)   Enforcement options. When the Health Officer, or an official, finds a
critical violation at a retail food establishment it will be addressed at the
time of the inspection; a follow-up inspection may also be conducted.
      (1)   A letter of warning may be issued when there are critical or
noncritical violations continuing upon the first follow-up inspection. If a
letter of warning is issued, a second follow-up inspection will be conducted.
      (2)   (a)   After a second follow-up inspection in which it is determined
that critical or noncritical violations are continuing, one or a combination,
of the following measures may be implemented at the discretion of the
Environmental Health Supervisor:
            1.   A letter of warning;
            2.   An informal meeting held in the County Health Department
offices;
            3.   A meeting held at the establishment by the Health Officer,
Environmental Health Supervisor, or Chief Food Specialist; and/or
            4.   Another follow-up inspection.
      (b)   There shall be a fee payable before any second follow-up inspection
in the amount of 50% of the annual permit, or in such amount as set from time
to time by the County Board of Health.
   (3)   (a)   Upon a third inspection, follow-up inspection with continuing
critical or noncritical violations, or upon the continued unlawful operation
during an event of imminent health hazard, an enforcement action may be
instituted, and may include one or more of the following:
            1.   Issuance of a notice of violation and order to abate;
            2.   Follow-up inspections conducted as often as necessary to
ensure compliance; and/or
            3.   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense,
request the County Prosecuting Attorney to institute a proceeding in the courts
for enforcement. (See I.C. 16-20-1-25(c).)
      (b)   There shall be a fee payable before any third follow-up inspection
or subsequent inspection in the amount of 50% of the annual permit, or in such
amount as set, from time to time, by the County Board of Health.
(Ord. 2008-V, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 2011-IV, passed - -2011)
§ 111.07  APPEALS.
   (A)   An operator aggrieved by an order is entitled to a review of the final
order before a hearing board by filing a written request therefor with the
Health Officer (Secretary of the County Board of Health, see I.C. 16-20-1-19
and 16-20-1-26). The written request must be sent by certified mail or by hand
delivery to the Health Officer at 1917 Bono Road, New Albany, Indiana, 47150,
during regular hours of operation, and must be received within 15 days after
the date such order is issued. The written request must set forth with
specificity the factual and/or legal grounds for appeal, and only those matters
set forth in the written request may be argued before the Hearing Board.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the Hearing Board
shall hear the matter in an open hearing after at least five days’ written
notice of the time, place, and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the state rules of court. (A shorter period of time for hearing may
be requested and granted in the sole discretion of the Chairperson of the
County Board of Health, provided that such shorter time must permit compliance
with I.C. 5-14.5-1.5.)
   (C)   (1)   The notice of the hearing date shall be served upon the operator
requesting the review by delivering such notice to the address of the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food
establishment listed on the permit application, or by facsimile or to such
other address (if within the county) as the operator shall designate in the
letter of request to the Health Officer.
      (2)   Such delivery may be made by leaving the notice at the required
address or by regular United States mail.
   (D)   (1)   The Hearing Board shall establish the rules of procedure for the
hearing and shall advise the operator of the same prior to the start of the
proceedings.
      (2)   Such rules shall provide that an order may only be supported, in
whole or in part, by a majority decision of the Hearing Board.
   (E)   (1)   Within seven days from the conclusion of the hearing, the
Hearing Board shall make written findings of facts and conclusions concerning
the final order or determination, and shall deliver the same to the operator
requesting the review by delivering the same to the address of the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food
establishment listed on the permit application, by facsimile, or by hand
delivery to such other address (if within the county) as the operator shall
designate in the letter of request to the Health Officer.
      (2)   Such delivery may be made by leaving the notice at the required
address, or by regular United States mail.
(Ord. 2008-V, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 111.08  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No County Health Department Official shall conduct himself or herself in a
manner that is, or could have the appearance of, a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2008-V, passed 4-15-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112:  SWIMMING POOL AND SPA FACILITIES
Section
Swimming Pool Regulations
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Minimum operating requirements
   
112.03   Permit and fee requirements
   
112.04   Inspection of pools and spas
 
   
112.99   Penalty
SWIMMING POOL REGULATIONS
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1-1 et seq. are adopted herein
and made a part hereof. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CERTIFIED POOL OPERATOR (CPO) OR CERTIFIED POOL TECHNICIAN (CPT). Someone
who has passed the certified pool-spa operator test by the National Swimming
Pool Foundation or Aquatic Training Institute.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The county’s Health Officer, or his or her authorized
representative.
(Ord. 2012-VII, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 112.02  MINIMUM OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All persons owning or operating a public pool, or semi-public
pool, in the county shall comply with the minimum sanitation and operation
requirements specified by the State Board of Health, as now provided in 410
I.A.C. 6-2.1, or as the same may be hereafter changed or amended.
      (2)   Such regulation and any changes and amendments thereto which may be
hereafter adopted or promulgated are by reference incorporated herein and made
part hereof, two copies of which are on file in the office of the County Health
Department for public inspection.
   (B)   Each public pool or semi-public pool facility shall have at least one
employee who is a certified pool operator (CPO), or, if a third-party service
company provides routine maintenance, the outside service technician must be a
CPO. Any individual who makes changes to the water quality, or performs routine
maintenance of the summing pool/spa system components, must also be a certified
pool operator.
(Ord. 2012-VII, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 112.03  PERMIT AND FEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a public/semi-
public swimming pool, wading pool, spa, or hot tub in the county who does not
possess a valid permit from the Health Officer.
      (1)   Such permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
of such swimming pool, wading pool, spa, or hot tub.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the applicable provisions of the
subchapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such a license. Such permits
shall be for a term of one year, to be renewed annually on, or prior to, April
30.
      (3)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name and
address of the person to whom a license is issued, and such other data as the
Health Officer deems necessary.
   (B)   Permit fees. Public/semi-public swimming pools, wading pools, spas, or
hot tubs operating less than six months per year shall pay to the County Health
Department a license fee of $30 each year, per pool, spa wading pool, hot tub,
and the like, submitted with the initial or annual permit renewal application,
due on, or before, April 30.
      (1)   All license fees shall be payable on, or before, April 30, and
shall be subject to the addition of a late penalty charge of $30 per pool, if
submitted after the permit expiration date of that year. Public/semi-public
swimming pools, wading pools, spas, and hot tubs operating year round, or for
periods of six months or longer, in the county shall pay the County Health
Department a permit fee of $60 each year, per pool, spa, wading pool, hot tub,
and the like.
      (2)   All license fees shall be payable on, or before, April 30, and
shall be subject to the addition of a late penalty, if submitted after the
permit expiration date of that year.
      (3)   Tax-supported units of government and schools shall be exempt from
the payment of the above-described fees.
(Ord. 2012-VII, passed 4-3-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  INSPECTION OF POOLS AND SPAS.
   (A)   Authority to inspect and to copy records. The person operating or
owning any public pool, semi-public pool, and/or spa in the county shall, upon
the request of the Health Officer, permit such Health Officer, or his or her
authorized representative, access to all pool and/or spa facilities, and shall
permit the Health Officer, or his or her authorized representative, to collect
evidence and/or exhibits and to copy any and all records relative to the
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Inspection of facilities. The Health Officer, and/or his or her
designated representative, shall implement a regular program of inspecting
facilities permitted under this subchapter.
      (1)   If, upon such an inspection, the Health Officer, or his or her
designated representative, finds that the permitted facility is violating any
of the provisions of this subchapter, then, and in that event, the Health
Officer, or his or her designated representative, may promptly issue a written
order to the permittee of such facility to appear at a certain time, no later
than ten days from the date of the second inspection, and at a place in the
county fixed in said notification, to show cause why the permit issued under
the provision of this subchapter should not be revoked.
      (2)   The Health Officer, upon such hearing, if the permittee should fail
to show cause, shall revoke said permit and promptly give written notice of
such action to the permittee. The Health Officer shall maintain a permanent
record of his or her proceedings filed in the office of the County Health
Department.
   (C)   Suspension of permit.
      (1)   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be temporarily
suspended by the Health Officer without notice of hearing for a period not to
exceed 30 days, for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Unsanitary or other conditions which, in the Health Officer’s
opinion, endanger the public health; and/or
         (b)   Interference with the Health Officer, or any of his or her
authorized representatives, in the performance of his, her, or their duties.
      (2)   Provided, however, that upon written application from the
permittee, served upon the Health Officer with 15 days after such suspension,
the Health Officer shall conduct a hearing upon the matter after giving at
least five days’ written notice of the time, place, and purpose thereof to the
suspended permittee; provided further, that any such suspension order shall be
issued by the Health Officer in writing and served upon the permittee by
leaving a copy at his or her usual place of business, or by delivery of
certified or registered mail to such address. Any person whose permit has been
suspended may, at any time, make application to the local Health Officer for
the reinstatement of his or her permit.
(Ord. 2012-VII, passed 4-3-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Upon finding a violation of §§
112.01 through
112.04, the violator shall be punished for the first offense by a fine of not
more than $500; for the second offense by a fine of not more than $1,000; and
for a third offense and each subsequent offense by a fine of not more than
$2,500.
      (1)   Each day of operation of a permitted facility in violation of §§
112.01 through
112.04, or after the expiration of the time limit for abating unsanitary
conditions or in completing improvements, or any other violations, as described
in 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1-1 et seq. to abate such conditions, as ordered by the
Health Officer, shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
      (2)   As described in §
112.03, all license fees shall be payable on, or before, April 30, and shall be
subject to the addition of a late penalty charge of $60 per pool, if submitted
after the permit expiration date of that year.
(Ord. 2012-VII, passed 4-3-2012)
CHAPTER 113:  TATTOO PARLORS AND BODY PIERCING STUDIOS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Scope
   
113.02   Definitions
Operator Requirements
   
113.15   Operator training responsibilities
   
113.16   Operator responsibilities
   
113.17   Operator policies
   
113.18   Minimum training and certification requirements
   
113.19   Patron records
   
113.20   Permits and licenses
Facility Sanitation
   
113.35   Illness
   
113.36   Hand washing
   
113.37   Personal protective equipment
   
113.38   Tattooing equipment
   
113.39   Needles
   
113.40   Reusable equipment
   
113.41   Dyes or pigments
   
113.42   Work environment
   
113.43   Infectious waste containment
   
113.44   Treatment and transport of infectious waste
Inspection and Enforcement
   
113.55   Inspections
   
113.56   Violations; procedures
   
113.57   Permit and license suspension/revocation/immediate closure orders
   
113.58   Hearing
   
113.59   Appeal
   
113.60   Enforcement
   
113.61   Prohibited acts
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01  SCOPE.
   All places, individuals, and businesses that offer to affix any type of
permanent tattoo or body piercing to a person shall be regulated by this
chapter, and shall maintain the premises in which tattoos or body piercings are
performed and equipment used in the tattoo or body piercing process in a
sanitary manner.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 113.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOOD. Human blood.
   BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS. Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These PATHOGENS include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Hepatitis B virus (HBV);
      (2)   Hepatitis C virus (HCV); and
      (3)   Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
   BODY PIERCER. Any person who performs body piercing on an individual.
   BODY PIERCING. The perforation of any human body part, other than ear lobe,
for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration, or for some other
nonmedical purpose.
   CLEANED. Removal of all visible dust, soil, or any other foreign material.
   CONTAMINATED. The presence, or reasonably anticipated presence, of blood or
OPIM (other potentially infectious materials) on an item or surface.
   DECONTAMINATED. The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate,
or destroy bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item which does not require
sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting
infectious particles, and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling,
use, or disposal.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   FACILITY. A tattoo parlor or a body piercing facility, or both, which is any
room or space that is mobile or stationary where tattooing or body piercing, or
both, is provided, or where the business of tattooing or body piercing, or
both, is conducted.
   HBV. The hepatitis B virus.
   HCV. The hepatitis C virus.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed Health Officer, as set forth in I.C. 16-
20-2-16. The county’s Health Officer, or designee, shall be designated as the
official in charge of enforcing this chapter. The Health Officer may designate
a representative in the County Health Department to perform those duties and
responsibilities of the Health Officer.
   HIGH LEVEL DISINFECTION. A process that destroys all microorganisms, with
the exception of high numbers of bacterial spores.
   HIV. The human immunodeficiency virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Waste that epidemiologic evidence indicates is capable of
transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes, but
is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps, or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps;
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biologicals,
and infectious agent stock;
      (3)   Pathological waste;
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form;
      (5)   Carcasses, body parts, blood, and body fluids in liquid and semi-
liquid form, and bedding of laboratory animals; and
      (6)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   INTERMEDIATE LEVEL DISINFECTION. A process that inactivates the following,
but does not necessarily kill bacterial spores:
      (1)   Mycobacterium tuberculosis;
      (2)   Vegetative bacteria;
      (3)   Most viruses; and
      (4)   Most fungi.
   MOBILE FACILITY. A tattoo parlor or a body piercing facility, or both, which
is any moveable room or space where tattooing or body piercing, or both, is
provided or where the business of tattooing or body piercing, or both, is
conducted.
   OPERATOR. Any person who controls, operates, manages, or owns any facility.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS (OPIM).
      (1)   Human body fluids as follows:
         (a)   Semen;
         (b)   Vaginal secretions;
         (c)   Cerebrospinal fluid;
         (d)   Synovial fluid;
         (e)   Pleural fluid;
         (f)   Pericardial fluid;
         (g)   Peritoneal fluid;
         (h)   Amniotic fluid;
         (i)   Saliva in dental procedures;
         (j)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood; and
         (k)   All body fluids where it is difficult or impossible to
differentiate between body fluids.
      (2)   Any unfixed tissue or organ, other than intact skin, from a human,
living or dead; and
      (3)   HIV-containing cell or tissue cultures, and HIV- or HBV-containing
culture medium or other solutions; and blood, organs, or other tissues from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
   PARENTERAL. Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needle sticks, human bites, cuts, or abrasions.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   SECURE AREA. An area that is designated and maintained to prevent the entry
of unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS. Blood and blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE. The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endospores.
   STORE. The containment of infectious waste in such a manner as not to
constitute collection, treatment, transport, or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol, or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other instruments;
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure, or symbol done by scarring upon
or under the skin; or
      (3)   Any piercing of the mucous membranes or the skin through which
needles, or other items, are inserted for temporary or permanent placement upon
a person.
   TATTOO ARTIST. Any person who provides a tattoo to an individual or who
performs any type of piercing of the mucus membranes or the skin through which
needles, or other objects, are inserted for temporary or permanent placement.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, HCV, and other bloodborne pathogens.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)
OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS
§ 113.15  OPERATOR TRAINING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   An individual or entity that is an operator shall comply with the following
training responsibilities:
   (A)   Ensure that the training described in the State Occupational Safety
and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29
C.F.R. § 1910.1030) is provided to all tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility, or anyone acting on behalf of the facility, who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is provided
to all tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone employed by the facility, or
anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably anticipated risk
for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM; and
   (C)   Ensure that a record of the training described in divisions (A) and
(B) above is maintained, as required under the State Occupational Safety and
Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030) of an individual’s participation in the training that is provided.
The record shall be made available to the department for inspection upon
request.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 113.16  OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The operator shall ensure that tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility, or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood are provided personal protective equipment and expendables
needed to implement the precautions required by this rule and the State
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard
(as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030).
   (B)   The operator shall require tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility, or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood to provide evidence of compliance with the universal
precautions and education requirements contained in §
113.18.
   (C)   The operator shall display a description of compliance with the
requirements contained in division (D) below.
   (D)   (1)   The operator shall display written materials prepared, or
approved by, the Department explaining universal precautions and patrons’
rights under this rule.
      (2)   These materials shall include information on how to report
violations of universal precautions and shall include information regarding the
Department’s duties to investigate.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 113.17  OPERATOR POLICIES.
   The operator shall develop a written policy in compliance with this rule and
the requirements of the State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s
Bloodborne Pathogen Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030) that:
   (A)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing tattooing or
body piercing, and any activity or duty that includes any reasonably
anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or
OPIM;
   (B)   Requires disinfection or sterilization of contaminated reusable items;
   (C)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste;
   (D)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if warranted,
for failure to use universal precautions and/or handle infectious waste safely;
and
   (E)   Prohibiting of medical procedures, tongue splitting, tattoo removal,
and uses of anesthesia.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18  MINIMUM TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone employed by the facility,
and anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably anticipated
risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM
shall complete the training program that is required under the requirements of
the State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogen
Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030). The programs under this section
shall be as follows:
      (1)   A bloodborne pathogen training session provided by the operator
meeting the requirements under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030); and
      (2)   Any bloodborne pathogen continuing education program accredited by
a health care licensing entity.
   (B)   All tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone employed by the facility,
and anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably anticipated
risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM
must be trained in the facility’s policies on the handling of infectious waste.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 113.19  PATRON RECORDS.
   (A)   Records of each patron shall be maintained for two years. The record
shall include the following:
      (1)   Patron’s name;
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   Age must be verified by two items of identification, one of which
must be a valid government issued identification;
      (4)   Date of the tattoo or body piercing;
      (5)   Design of the tattoo or body piercing;
      (6)   Location of the tattoo or body piercing on the patron’s body;
      (7)   The name of the tattoo artist or body piercer who performed the
work; and
      (8)   Jewelry or other decoration used.
   (B)   Tattooing and body piercing of minors is prohibited. No person shall
tattoo any person under the age of 18 years, except in the presence of, and
with the written permission of, a properly identified parent or legal guardian
of such person.
      (1)   Under no circumstances shall any person tattoo or body pierce a
person under the age of 16.
      (2)   A person providing tattoo or body piercing services shall
conspicuously post a notice stating that it is illegal to tattoo or body pierce
any person under the age of 18 without the parent or legal guardian’s consent
and without the parent or legal guardian present; and that it is illegal to
ever tattoo or body pierce any person under the age of 16 years old.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.20  PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   (A)   Business. Each tattoo/body piercing facility operation shall obtain a
permit from the County Health Department.
      (1)   The permit shall provide the name and address of the owner of the
business and the name and address of each tattoo artist and body piercer
employed at each location.
      (2)   The cost for this permit shall be $300 and shall not be
transferable. The permit expires on December 31 of each year.
      (3)   Should an establishment fail to obtain the permit prior to the
opening of a tattoo and/or body piercing facility, or should any permittee fail
to renew his or her permit on or before the expiration date of December 31,
then said fee shall be annual, plus 50% of the annual fee set forth above for
the tattoo and/or body piercing facility.
      (4)   (a)   Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection as set
forth herein. The County Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms
for this permit.
         (b)   Said permit shall be posted at the facility in the area where
the tattoo or body piercing services are performed and shall be clearly visible
to the public.
      (5)   Said permit will only license the permanent establishment whose
address appears on the permit. Businesses wanting to conduct a tattoo event
off-site must obtain a temporary event permit.
   (B)   Temporary facility. Each temporary tattoo/body piercing facility
operation shall obtain a permit from the County Health Department.
      (1)   The permit shall provide the name and address of the owner of the
business and the name and address of each tattoo artist and body piercer
operating at each location.
      (2)   The cost of this permit shall be $180 and shall not be
transferable.
      (3)   The permit expires on December 31 of each year. Should an
establishment fail to obtain the permit prior to the opening of a mobile tattoo
and/or body piercing facility, or should any licensee fail to renew his or her
license on or before the expiration date of December 31, then said fee shall be
annual, plus 50% of the annual fee set forth in division (B)(2) above for the
tattoo and/or body piercing facility.
      (4)   Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection, as set forth
herein. The County Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms for
this permit.
      (5)   Said permit shall be posted at the mobile facility in the area
where the tattoo or body piercing services are performed and shall be clearly
visible to the public. In addition, the date, time, and location of the event
where the mobile facility will be used shall be submitted at least three
business days prior to the start time of the event to the County Health
Department.
   (C)   Tattoo artist or body piercer. Every person that desires to perform
any tattoo or body piercing shall obtain a tattoo artist license, body piercer
license, or a tattoo artist-body piercer license from the County Health
Department. Each applicant must be at least 18 years of age. This license must
be obtained before any tattoos are affixed or body piercing done to any person
and after the requisite training. The applicant must satisfy the minimum
requirements as set forth in division (E) below.
      (1)   The cost of said license shall be $50 and shall not be
transferable. The license expires on December 31 of each year. Should a tattoo
artist or body piercer fail to obtain the license prior to performing any
tattoo or body piercing, or should any licensee fail to renew his or her
license on, or before, the expiration date of December 31, then said fee shall
be annual, plus 50% of the annual fee for the tattoo artist or body piercer.
      (2)   Any holder of a license shall be subject to inspection, as set
forth herein. The County Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms
for this license. Said licenses shall be posted at the facility in the place
where the tattoos or body piercing are performed and shall be clearly visible
to the public
   (D)   Owner/operator. In the event that a tattoo/body piercing facility is a
sole proprietorship and the owner shall also perform tattooing or body piercing
for his, her, or their business, the owner shall only be required to obtain a
business permit, as described in this section.
   (E)   Guest tattoo artist or body piercer. Every person that desires to
perform any tattoo or body piercing services within the county on a temporary
basis shall obtain a guest tattoo artist license, guest body piercer license,
or a guest tattoo artist-body piercer license from the County Health
Department.
      (1)   This license must be obtained before any tattoos are affixed, or
body piercing is done, to any person, and after the required training. The
applicant must satisfy the minimum requirements, as set forth in §
113.19.
      (2)   The cost of said license shall be $25 for a 30-day license and
shall not be transferable. The permit shall expire 30 days after the date of
issuance. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection as set forth
herein. The County Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms for
this permit.
      (3)   Said permits shall be posted at the facility in the area where the
tattoo or body piercing services are performed and shall be clearly visible to
the public.
   (F)   Prorating of fees.
      (1)   In the event that a business, mobile facility, tattoo artist, and/
or body piercer shall apply for a permit any time prior to July 1 of any year,
he, she, or they shall be responsible for the total annual fee as described in
this chapter.
      (2)   In the event that a business, mobile facility, tattoo artist, and/
or body piercer shall apply for a permit any time after or on July 1 of any
year, he, she, or they shall be required to pay one-half of the annual fee. All
permits, however, shall expire on December 31 of the year in which they were
issued.
   (G)   Temporary events. Temporary studios at locations such as fairs,
festivals, or flea markets, shall comply with all requirements for a certified
studio in accordance with §§
113.01 through
113.02,
113.15 through
113.20, and
113.35 through
113.44.
      (1)   The event organizer or studio owner for the event shall be
responsible for ensuring that the event is run in a manner that is safe for the
body piercer, tattoo artist, and general public.
      (2)   The event organizer or studio owner shall provide a list of all
participating artist/piercer at the event and with the County Health
Department. This information shall include the following information for each
participating artist/piercer:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Date of birth;
         (c)   Home address;
         (d)   Business name;
         (e)   Business address;
         (f)   Home and work telephone numbers;
         (g)   Email address (if available);
         (h)   Description of procedures to be performed at the event; and
         (i)   Copy of current artist/piercer registration.
      (3)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide a layout of the
event floor to the County Health Department before being granted a permit.
      (4)   Each participant who performs shall bring enough pre-sterilized
instruments and supplies to last the whole event.
      (5)   (a)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide a
separate cleaning and sterilization room as a back up for use by participants
who have used all the pre-sterilized instruments and were brought to the event.
         (b)   If used, the cleaning and sterilization room shall be
disinfected at the close of the event. Pre-sterilized instruments and equipment
shall not be reused.
      (6)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide an approved
autoclave that has a negative spore test within 30 days prior to the event.
      (7)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide for pick-up and
disposal of contaminated waste in accordance with this chapter and
administrative rules.
      (8)   Each artist/piercer at the temporary event must either have an
annual or guest license. In addition to the license, each tattoo/body piercing
facility or workstation at the temporary event shall obtain a permit from the
County Health Department.
         (a)   The permit shall provide the name and address of the owner of
the business and the name and address of each tattoo artist and body piercer
employed at the event.
         (b)   The cost for the temporary event permit shall be $20 per day,
not to exceed $100 for a maximum of 14 consecutive days. All fees shall be paid
prior to the event.
      (9)   Temporary workstations shall meet the following minimum conditions:
         (a)   Be at least ten feet by ten feet, and be constructed in a manner
to separate the artist/piercer from the public in such a way as to protect the
procedure area from contamination, and prevent accidental exposure of the
potentially- infectious material created during such procedures;
         (b)   Have a floor and sides that are smooth, nonporous, and easy to
clean;
         (c)   Have at least 100 foot candles of light available at the level
where the tattoo or body piercing is conducted;
         (d)   Be equipped with a hand-washing facility. A hand-wash facility,
at the minimum, shall consist of liquid antibacterial or antimicrobial soap,
single-use paper towels, and an insulated five-gallon container with a level-
type spigot; and be filled with warm, potable water at 101ºF to 102ºF, and a
bucket to catch the wastewater. The water container shall be placed at least 30
inches off the floor to allow for easy use, and shall be filled regularly to
ensue an adequate supply of warm water for hand washing;
         (e)   Waste water shall be disposed of into a public sewage system, if
available;
         (f)   If a public sewage system is not available, disposal shall be
made into a private system designed, constructed, and operated pursuant the to
the requirements of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3; and
         (g)   Shall be supplied with an adequate supply of paper or plastic
barrier film to protect equipment and any other item that must be protected to
prevent cross-contamination.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)
FACILITY SANITATION
§ 113.35  ILLNESS.
   Tattoo artists or body piercers shall refrain from providing tattoos or body
piercing if they are experiencing symptoms of acute disease that include, but
are not limited to:
   (A)   Diarrhea;
   (B)   Vomiting;
   (C)   Fever;
   (D)   Trash;
   (E)   Productive cough;
   (F)   Jaundice; or
   (G)   Draining (or open) skin infections, boils, impetigo, or scabies.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.36  HAND WASHING.
   (A)   Handwashing facilities shall be readily accessible in the each work
station where tattooing or body piercing is provided.
   (B)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately before
putting on gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal protective
equipment.
   (C)   Only single-use towels shall be used.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.37  PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Appropriate personal protective equipment shall be worn according to this
section.
   (A)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM.
   (B)   Masks, in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles or
glasses, with a solid side shield or chin-length face shield, shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter, or droplets of blood or OPIM may be
generated and eye, nose, or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Disposable gloves, such as surgical or examination type, shall worn
during the tattooing or body piercing process. Gloves shall be changed and
properly disposed of each time there is an interruption in the application of
the tattoo or body piercing, when the gloves become torn or punctured, or
whenever the ability to function as a barrier is compromised. Disposable gloves
shall not be reused.
   (D)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces and
equipment.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.38  TATTOOING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Only single-use razors shall be used to shave the area to be tattooed.
   (B)   All stencils shall be properly disposed of after a single-use.
   (C)   If the design is drawn directly onto the skin, it shall be applied
with a single-use article only.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.39  NEEDLES.
   (A)   Needles shall be individually packaged and sterilized prior to use.
   (B)   Needles shall be single-use only.
   (C)   Needles shall be discarded in sharps containers immediately after use.
   (D)   Contaminated needles shall not be bent or broken or otherwise
manipulated by hand.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.40  REUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Heating procedures capable of sterilization must be used when heat-
stable, nondisposable equipment is sterilized.
   (B)   Equipment that is to be sterilized shall be put in single-use
packaging.
   (C)   Records must be maintained to document the following:
      (1)   Duration of sterilization technique;
      (2)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a biological
indicator, is performed monthly; and
      (3)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner’s manual, and
proof is available that the owner’s manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
   (D)   Reusable, contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in a
manner that requires any person to reach, by hand, into the containers where
these sharp items have been placed.
   (E)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be:
      (1)   Placed in puncture-resistant containers which are:
         (a)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
         (b)   Leakproof on both sides and bottom.
      (2)   Stored in a manner that does not require reaching, by hand, into
the container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to
sterilization.
   (F)   Contaminated, reusable equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior to
sterilization or disinfection.
   (G)   Any reusable, contaminated equipment that comes into direct contact,
or is likely to come into direct contract, with an instrument that penetrates
the skin, other than a piercing gun, shall be effectively cleaned and
sterilized prior to use.
   (H)   All sterilized equipment shall not be removed from wrappers or
sterilizer packaging until immediately prior to use.
   (I)   Any reusable equipment that comes into contact with mucus membranes
shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized prior to use.
   (J)   Piercing guns shall be cleaned and undergo, at a minimum, high-level
disinfection after each use and whenever visibly contaminated.
   (K)   All reusable equipment that has contact with intact skin shall
undergo, at a minimum, intermediate-level disinfection.
   (L)   All other equipment used during the tattooing or body piercing
procedure shall be single-use, including corks.
   (M)   All body piercers and tattoo artists shall comply with all other
equipment manufacturer’s recommendations.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 113.41  DYES AND PIGMENTS.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments in tattooing shall be from professional suppliers
specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by tattoo artists, only non-
toxic, sterile materials shall be used. Single-use or individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean, single-use containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single-use or
individual containers shall be discarded, along with the container.
   (D)   Any object placed under the skin shall be sterile.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.42  WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   No tattooing or body piercing shall be conducted in any room used as
living quarters, or in any room that opens directly into living or sleeping
quarters. All work-stations shall be at least ten feet by ten feet and have
working sink area to prevent cross- contamination.
   (B)   All facilities shall have a dry storage and sterilization room
separate from work areas and not accessible by public. Each sterilization room
shall have adequate room for proper sterilization technique that shall include
separation of contaminated and sterilized storage area.
   (C)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where tattooing or body
piercing is being conducted. This exclusion does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police officers; or
      (2)   Guide dogs accompanying the following:
         (a)   Blind persons;
         (b)   Partially blind persons;
         (c)   Physically disabled persons;
         (d)   Guide dog trainers; and/or
         (e)   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (D)   Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics, or handling contact
lenses shall not be allowed in work areas where there is a likelihood of
exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   Food and drink shall not be kept in areas where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (F)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
disinfected after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (G)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization that
have been contaminated by blood shall be cleaned and disinfected.
   (H)   All work surfaces shall be:
      (1)   Nonabsorbent;
      (2)   Easily cleanable;
      (3)   Smooth; and
      (4)   Free of:
         (a)   Breaks;
         (b)   Open seams;
         (c)   Cracks;
         (d)   Chips;
         (e)   Pits; and
         (f)   Similar imperfections.
   (I)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   Hospital grade, tuberculocidal Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; or
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite, 0.5% concentration, by volume (common
household bleach is 10% concentration in water); the solution shall be dated
and shall not be used if it is more than 24 hours old.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.43  INFECTIOUS WASTE CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   Contaminated, disposable needles or instruments shall be stored in
leak-resistant, puncture-resistant containers, tightly sealed to prevent
expulsion, labeled with the biohazard symbol, and effectively treated in
accordance with this chapter prior to being stored in an unsecured area and
sent for final disposal.
   (B)   Infectious wastes that are contaminated sharps, or objects that could
potentially become contaminated sharps, shall be placed in containers that:
      (1)   Shall be impervious to moisture;
      (2)   Shall be of sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
      (3)   Shall be secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
      (4)   Shall be labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
      (5)   Shall be effectively treated in accordance with this chapter prior
to being placed in an unsecured area and sent for final disposal.
   (C)   If infectious waste is stored prior to final disposal, all persons
subject to this chapter shall store infectious waste in a secure area that:
      (1)   Is locked, or otherwise secured to eliminate access by or exposure
to the general public;
      (2)   Affords protection from adverse environmental conditions and
vermin; and
      (3)   Has a prominently displayed biohazard symbol.
   (D)   Infectious waste shall be stored in a manner that preserves the
integrity of the container and is not conducive to rapid microbial growth and
putrefaction.
   (E)   Disinfect reusable containers for infectious waste each time that they
are emptied, unless the surfaces of the reusable containers have been protected
from contamination by disposable liners, bags, or other devices that are
removed with the infectious waste.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.44  TREATMENT AND TRANSPORT OF INFECTIOUS WASTE.
   (A)   All operators shall ensure that infectious waste is either treated on-
site in accordance with this chapter or transported off-site for treatment in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities of
infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste
involved, and is carried out in a manner consistent with this rule. Effective
treatment may include:
      (1)   Incineration in an incinerator designed to accommodate infectious
waste;
      (2)   Steam sterilization;
      (3)   Chemical disinfection under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
      (4)   Thermal inactivation;
      (5)   Irradiation; or
      (6)   Discharge in a sanitary sewer or septic system that is properly
installed and operating in accordance with state and local laws.
   (C)   All persons subject to this rule shall:
      (1)   Transport infectious waste in a manner that reasonably protects
waste haulers and the public from contracting a dangerous communicable disease;
and
      (2)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this rule
before it is compacted.
   (D)   The operator shall ensure that infectious waste, effectively treated
or not, is transported off-site in compliance with 410 I.A.C. 1-3.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)
INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 113.55  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The County Health Department shall conduct inspections of each and
every facility and mobile facility located in county.
   (B)   The County Health Department shall conduct a minimum of two
inspections per year for facilities, and one inspection per year for mobile
facilities. Additional inspections may be conducted by the County Health
Department as it determines, and/or in response to complaints submitted. The
results of the inspections shall be provided to each operator.
   (C)   Violations noted by the County Health Department shall be corrected
immediately. The County Health Department shall conduct follow-up inspections
to determine compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.56  VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Procedures when violations are noted. If, during the inspection of any
facility, the Health Officer discovers the violation of any provision of this
chapter, he or she shall issue a written report listing such violations and the
remedial action(s) to be taken.
      (1)   A copy of said report shall be delivered to the permittee and/or
licensee by hand-delivering the report to him or her on-site, or mailing the
notice by certified mail to the address listed by the permittee and/or licensee
as his, her, or its mailing address on the permit application.
      (2)   A copy of the written order shall be filed in the records of the
County Health Department after appropriate review by supervisory personnel and
then shall be made available to the public.
   (B)   Violations. Whenever the Health Officer determines that any facility,
artist, or any other person is in willful violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of said willful
violation to the County Prosecuting Attorney, or the attorney for the Board,
who shall seek all appropriate legal remedies against the person(s) violating
said provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Injunction. The Health Officer may bring an action for an injunction
in the circuit or superior court of the county to restrain any person from
violating the provisions of this chapter, and to cause such violation(s) to be
prevented, abated, or removed.
   (D)   Expense. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be liable to the County Health Department for the expense, loss, or
damage occasioned by reason of such violation, including reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs.
   (E)   Cumulative. The remedies provided in this section shall be cumulative,
and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedy provided by
law.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.57  PERMIT AND LICENSE SUSPENSION/REVOCATION/IMMEDIATE CLOSURE ORDERS.
   (A)   The Health Officer may order the suspension or revocation of any
permit or license issued for a facility or artist, which order shall include
the prohibition of any further operation for the following reasons:
      (1)   Interference with the Health Officer, or his or her authorized
representatives, in the performance of his or her duties. INTERFERENCE shall be
defined as the process of obstructing, hampering or blocking the Health Officer
in the performance of his or her duties; and
      (2)   As a result of the willful and/or continuous violation of any
provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Except as set forth in division (A) above, no suspension or revocation
shall be ordered by the Health Officer, except after a hearing held pursuant to
§
113.58.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, whenever the
Health Officer, or his or her authorized representatives, find unsanitary or
other conditions involving the operation of any facility or artist which, in
his or her reasonable belief, constitutes an imminent health hazard, he or she
shall, without notice or hearing, issue and serve a written order upon the
permittee or licensee requiring the immediate closure of its operations, shall
cite the existence of said unsanitary conditions, and shall specify the
corrective actions to be taken.
      (1)   Such order shall be effective immediately.
      (2)   Upon written request to the Health Officer, the permittee or
licensee shall be afforded a hearing on the next business day, as set forth in
§
113.58.
      (3)   The Health Officer shall make a reinspection upon the request of
the permittee or licensee. When the Health Officer determines that the
necessary corrective action(s) have been taken, operation of the facility may
be resumed.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.58  HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   All hearings required under this section, except those set forth
in §
113.59, shall be held only upon at least ten days’ written notice to the
permittee or licensee of time, place, and nature thereof.
      (2)   The notice of hearing shall be served upon the permittee or
licensee by leaving, or mailing by certified mail, the notice to the address
listed on the permit application as the permittee’s or licensee’s mailing
address, or such other address as the permittee or licensee shall designate, in
writing, to the Health Officer.
   (B)   At any hearing required under this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall
be the Health Officer, or the Health Officer’s designee. Every person who is a
party to such proceedings shall have the right to submit evidence, to cross-
examine witnesses, and to be represented by legal counsel. All such hearings
shall be conducted in an informal manner, but irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly
repetitive evidence may be excluded.
   (C)   Upon the conclusion of such hearing, the Hearing Officer shall enter a
final order, subject to the right of appeal in accordance with §
113.59.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 113.59  APPEAL.
   (A)   Any permittee or licensee aggrieved by any final order of the Health
Officer shall be entitled to a review of the final order before the County
Board of Health (Board) by filing a written request therefor with the Secretary
of the Board within 15 days after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the Board shall
hear the matter de novo in an open hearing after at least ten days’ written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. (The Health Officer and
permittee, or licensee, may agree to a shorter period of time, if requested by
either party.) The notice shall be issued by the Secretary of the Board to the
permittee or licensee filing the request.
   (C)   The notice of hearing shall be served upon the permittee or licensee
by leaving, or mailing by certified mail, the notice to the address listed on
the permit application as the permittee’s or licensee’s mailing address, or
such other address as the permittee or licensee shall designate, in writing, to
the Secretary of the Board.
   (D)   At such hearing, the same rules of procedure shall apply as set forth
in §
113.58; provided, that upon written request by the permittee/licensee or the
Health Officer, the Board shall cause the proceedings before it to be recorded
by a reporter employed for such purpose, and the same, together with all papers
and documents filed therein, shall, at the request of either party, be
reproduced by said Board in the form of a transcript, a copy of which shall be
available to any party.
   (E)   The expense of such proceedings shall be charged to the permittee/
licensee who applied for the review, except that copies of transcripts shall be
at the expense of the party requesting the same. At the time the transcript is
requested, the Board may require the permittee/licensee to pay a deposit in an
amount determined by the Board to be necessary to secure such expense(s).
   (F)   The Board shall make written findings of facts and shall enter its
final order or determination of the matter in writing.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 113.60  ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter shall be null and void. A violation of an order issued by the Health
Officer or Board shall be considered to be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.61  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Prohibiting of any medical procedures, including, but not limited to: tongue
splitting; tattoo removal; and uses of anesthesia; home tattoo parties; and
mobile tattoo parlor.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each violation. Each day
of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be considered to be a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2011-XIII, passed 9-6-2011)
CHAPTER 114:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Violations
Business Licensing
   
114.15   License required
   
114.16   License application
   
114.17   Issuance of license
   
114.18   Issuance of employee license
   
114.19   Licensing fees
   
114.20   License expiration and renewal
   
114.21   License suspension
   
114.22   License revocation
   
114.23   License; appeal rights
   
114.24   Transfer of license
   
114.25   Change in information
Operation Requirements
   
114.40   Inspection
   
114.41   Additional requirements
   
114.42   Dressing rooms
   
114.43   Restrooms
   
114.44   Minors
   
114.45   Hours of operation
   
114.46   Minimum lighting levels
   
114.47   Exterior display and monitoring
Cross-reference:
   General Offenses, see
Chapter 130
   Public Safety; Law Enforcement, see
Chapter 34
   Zoning, see
Chapter 155
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment that, as a substantial or significant portion of its business,
regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in areas of the establishment open to patrons in
a state of nudity, or state of semi-nudity so as to expose to view specified
anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Any live entertainment, exhibition, performance, or dance by
persons whose entertainment, exhibition, performance, or dance is characterized
by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities.
   ADULT MEDIA. Magazines, books, photographic reproductions, videotapes,
movies, slides, compact discs in any format (e.g., CD-ROM, CD-r, CD-rw),
digital video discs in any format (e.g., DVD), other devices used to reproduce
or record computer images, or other print, video, film, electronic, computer-
based, analog, or digital media characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or related to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT MEDIA STORE. An establishment that rents and/or sells adult media and
that meets any of the following tests:
      (1)   More than 15% of the gross public floor area is devoted to adult
media; or more than 15% of the stock in trade consists of adult media; or
      (2)   Media store which advertises or holds itself out in any forum as a
sexually oriented business by use of such terms as “X-rated,” “XXX,” “adult,”
“sex,” “nude,” or otherwise advertises or holds itself out as a sexually
oriented business.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment occupying a
building, or portion of a building (including any portion of a building which
contains more than 150 square feet), where, for any form of consideration,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions, or other projected images are regularly shown; if such
establishment as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of age,
regardless of whether the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian; or if,
as a prevailing practice, the films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides,
or similar photographic reproductions, or other projected images presented are
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons
therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY STORE.
      (1)   A business offering goods for sale or rent and that meets any of
the following tests:
         (a)   More than 5% of the stock in trade of the business consists of
sexually oriented novelties or toys and more than 5% of the gross public floor
area of the business is devoted to the display of sexually oriented novelties
or toys;
         (b)   It offers for sale items from any two of the following
categories: adult media; sexually oriented novelties or toys, apparel, or other
items marketed or presented in a context to suggest their use for
sadomasochistic practices; and the combination of such items constitutes more
than 10% of the stock in trade of the business and occupies more than 10% of
the gross public floor area of the business; or
         (c)   Which advertises or holds itself out in any forum as a sexually
oriented business by use of such terms as “sex toys, “marital aids,” “X-rated,”
“XXX,” “adult,” “sex,” “nude,” or otherwise advertises or holds itself out as a
sexually oriented business.
      (2)   ADULT NOVELTY STORE shall not include any establishment which, as a
substantial portion of its business, offers for sale, or rental to, persons
employed in the medical, legal, or education professions anatomical models,
including representations of human genital organs or female breasts, or other
models, displays, and exhibits produced and marketed primarily for use in the
practice of medicine or law, or for use by an educational institution.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment that as a substantial or significant portion of its business
regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity; live
performances which are characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or
description of specified anatomical areas, or specified sexual activities; or
live entertainment of an erotic nature that is characterized by an emphasis on
the depiction or description of specified anatomical areas, or specified sexual
activities.
   EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   A person who performs any service or work on the premises of a
sexually oriented business, including, but not limited to: providing
entertainment; performing work of a management or supervisory nature; or
performing support functions, on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
whether or not the person is denominated an EMPLOYEE, independent contractor,
agent, or otherwise, and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
      (2)   The term EMPLOYEE does not include a person on the premises
exclusively for repair or maintenance of the premises or equipment on the
premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   EMPLOYEE STATION. An area on the premises of a sexually oriented business
designated for occupancy exclusively by one or more employees whose duties
include assuring compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   NUDE or STATE OF NUDITY. Exposing to view the genitals, pubic area, vulva,
perineum, anus, anal cleft or cleavage, or pubic hair with less than a fully
opaque covering; exposing to view any portion of the areola of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering; exposing to view male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state, even if entirely covered by an opaque covering;
or exposing to view any device, costume, or covering that gives the appearance
of or simulates any of these anatomical areas.
   SEMI-NUDITY or SEMINUDE CONDITION or SEMI-NUDE. Exposing to view, with less
than a fully opaque covering, any portion of the female breast below the top of
the areola or any portion of the buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the female breast, but shall not include any portion of
the cleavage of the female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard,
bathing suit, or other clothing, provided that the areola is not exposed in
whole or in part.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genital organ or anus, or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, and shall include devices
such as dildos, vibrators, and penis pumps, and shall also include other
devices with non-sex related utility, such as leather whips, straps, and
ligatures, when such devices are marketed in a context suggesting sexual or
sadomasochistic purposes. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to
include devices primarily intended for protection against sexually transmitted
diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult media store, adult
novelty store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, nude
model studio, or sexual encounter center.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED NOVELTIES OR TOYS. Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia,
either designed as representations of human genital organs or female breasts,
or designed or marketed primarily for use to stimulate human genital organs or
for use in connection with specified sexual activities.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER PLACE. A commercial enterprise that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   For purposes of sexual stimulation or gratification, physical
contact, in any form, between persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is semi-nude.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Any of the following offenses:
         (a)   Prostitution, or promoting prostitution;
         (b)   Soliciting;
         (c)   Loitering to engage in solicitation;
         (d)   Sexual performance by a child;
         (e)   Public lewdness;
         (f)   Indecent exposure;
         (g)   Indecency with a child;
         (h)   Sexual assault;
         (i)   Molestation of a child;
         (j)   Or any similar offenses to those described above under the
criminal or penal code of any local jurisdiction, state, or country, for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of the
conviction, or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; or
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the
conviction or date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense.
      (2)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall not prevent such
conviction from constituting a specified criminal activity as defined in this
section.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of, or in connection with, any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) and (2) above.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 114.02  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who operates, or causes to be operated, a sexually oriented
business in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit for injunction, as
well as prosecution for criminal violations under the appropriate and
applicable state statutes.
   (B)   Judicial proceedings shall be brought by the County Attorney, or his
or her designee.
   (C)   Fines, judgments, and injunctive relief against violation of this
chapter may be sought in any such judicial proceeding, and any other remedies
available to the county in law or equity.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99)
BUSINESS LICENSING
§ 114.15  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a sexually oriented business without a valid
sexually oriented business license issued by the county, pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   No person shall, in connection with operating a sexually oriented
business, retain the services of a person as employee, as defined in this
chapter, who is not licensed as a sexually oriented business employee by the
county, pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.16  LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
submitted to the Building Commissioner on a form provided by the Building
Commissioner. The application may request, and the applicant shall provide,
such information as reasonably necessary (including fingerprints) to enable the
county to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established
in this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall identify
and be signed by the following persons:
      (1)   If the business entity is a proprietorship owned by one or more
individuals, then one of the individuals owners;
      (2)   If the business entity is owned by a corporation, each officer or
director of the corporation, any individual owning or controlling more than 50%
of the voting shares of the corporation, and any person with an ownership
interest in the corporation who will be principally responsible for the
operation of the proposed sexually oriented business or greater ownership
interest in the corporation;
      (3)   If the business entity is owned by a partnership (general or
limited), a joint venture, or any other type of organization where two or more
persons share in the profits and liabilities of the organization, each partner
(other than limited partners); and any other person entitled to share in the
profits of the organization, whether or not such person is also obligated to
share in the liabilities of the organization, and any person who will be
principally responsible for the operation of the proposed sexually oriented
business; and/or
      (4)   An application for a sexually oriented business license must
designate one or more individuals who are to be principally responsible for the
operation of the proposed sexually oriented business, if a license is granted,
which individual must be a licensed sexually oriented business employee.
         (a)   At least one person so designated must be involved in the day to
day operation of the proposed sexually oriented business on a regular basis.
         (b)   Each person so designated, as well as the business entity
itself, shall be considered a license applicant, and must qualify as a licensee
under this chapter, and shall be considered a licensee, and shall be considered
a licensee if a license is granted.
   (C)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
completed according to the instructions of the application form, which shall
require the following:
      (1)   An individual shall state the legal name and any aliases of such
individual;
      (2)   A partnership shall state the complete name of the partnership and
all of its partners and whether the partnership is general or limited, and
provide a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
      (3)   A joint venture, or any other type of organization where two or
more persons share in the profits and the liabilities of the organization shall
state the complete name of the organization and provide a legal document
establishing the organization, if any;
      (4)   A corporation shall state the complete name of the corporation and
the date of its incorporation, provide evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, and state the names and
capacity of all officers and directors, the name of registered corporate agent,
and the address of the registered office of the service of process;
      (5)   If the applicant intends to operate a sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, state the fictitious name to be
used and submit copies of the documentation evidencing the registration of the
business name under applicable laws;
      (6)   State whether any applicant, or any individuals identified in the
application, has been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined
within this chapter; and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved and
the date, place, and jurisdiction of each such conviction;
      (7)   State whether any applicant, or any of the individuals identified
in the application, has had a previous license under this chapter, or similar
regulation of another jurisdiction, denied, suspended, or revoked, including
the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit
was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial,
suspension, or revocation; and state whether the applicant has been a partner
in a partnership or an officer, director, or 10% or greater owner of a
corporation licensed under this chapter whose license has been previously been
denied, suspended, or revoked, including the name of the location of the
business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked, as well as the
date of the denial, suspension, or revocation;
      (8)   State whether any applicant, or any of the individuals identified
in the application, holds any other licenses under this chapter or other
similar regulation from this, or any other, jurisdiction, and, if so, the names
and locations of such other licensed businesses;
      (9)   State the classification of license for which the applicant is
filing;
      (10)   State the location of the proposed sexually oriented business,
including a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone
number(s), if any;
      (11)   State the mailing address and residential address of each
applicant and each person signing the application;
      (12)   Submit a recent photograph of each person who is a natural person,
taken by the County Sheriff’s Department which clearly shows the applicant’s
face;
      (13)   Submit the fingerprints of each applicant who is a natural person,
taken by the County Sheriff’s Department;
      (14)   For any applicant who is natural person, describe and identify the
location of any tattoos on such person’s face, arms, legs, or hands, or any
other anatomical area that normally would be visible when such person is on the
premises of the proposed sexually oriented business;
      (15)   State the driver’s license number and Social Security number of
each applicant who is natural person and each person signing the application;
or for an applicant that is not a natural person, the applicant’s shall provide
a federally issued tax identification number;
      (16)   Submit proof that each applicant who is a natural person is at
least 18 years old. A birth certificate and/or valid driver’s license will only
be considered as proof of age; and
      (17)   Submit a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the
premises of the sexually oriented business, including the location of all
stages and customer seating, and a statement of total floor space occupied by
the business. The diagram shall also designate the place at which the adult
business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. The sketch or
diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
   (D)   An application for a sexually oriented employee license shall be
submitted to the Building Commissioner on a form provided by the Building
Commissioner. The application may request, and the applicant shall provide,
such information as reasonably necessary (including fingerprints) to enable the
county to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established
in this chapter.
   (E)   An application for a sexually oriented business employee license shall
be completed according to the instructions of the application form, which shall
require the following:
      (1)   State the applicant’s name, and any other names (including “stage”
names) or aliases used by the applicant;
      (2)   State the applicant’s date and place of birth;
      (3)   State the applicant’s height, weight, and hair and eye color;
      (4)   Submit a recent photograph of the applicant, taken by the County
Sheriff’s Department, which clearly shows the applicant’s face;
      (5)   Submit the applicant’s fingerprints, recorded by the County
Sheriff’s Department;
      (6)   Describe and identify the location of any tattoos on the
applicant’s face, arms, legs, or hands, or any other anatomical area that
normally would be visible when the applicant is on the premises of the proposed
sexually oriented business;
      (7)   State the applicant’s present residence address and telephone
number;
      (8)   State the applicant’s present, or intended, business address and
telephone number;
      (9)   State the applicant’s driver’s license number and Social Security
number;
      (10)   Submit proof that the applicant is at least 18 years old;
      (11)   Provide a statement detailing the sexually oriented business-
related license history of the applicant for the five years immediately
preceding the date of the filing of the application, including whether such
applicant previously operated, or is seeking to operate, a sexually oriented
business in this or any other jurisdiction, and whether the applicant has ever
had a sexually oriented business in this or any other jurisdiction, and whether
the applicant has ever had a sexually oriented business-related license,
permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended. In the
event of any such denial, revocation, or suspension, the application shall
state the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction and describe, in full,
the reason for the denial, revocation, or suspension. The applicant shall
attach a copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension; and
      (12)   State whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this chapter, and, if so, the specified
criminal activity involved and the date, place, and jurisdiction of each such
conviction.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 114.17  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Within ten days of receipt of an application for a sexually oriented
business license, the Building Commissioner shall notify the County Sheriff’s
Department, the appropriate Township Fire Department, and the County Health
Department of such application. In making notification, the Building
Commissioner shall request the County Sheriff’s Department to promptly
investigate the information provided in the application concerning criminal
background of the applicant(s) and shall request the Fire Department and the
County Health Department promptly inspect the premises for which the sexually
oriented business license is sought to assess compliance with the regulations
under their respective jurisdictions.
   (B)   The County Sheriff’s Department, the Fire Department, and the County
Health Department shall begin their respective investigation and inspection
process promptly upon receipt of notice of an application from the Building
Commissioner.
      (1)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall provide the results of his or
her investigation to the Building Commissioner, in writing, within 20 days of
receipt of notice of the application.
      (2)   The Fire Department and the County Health Department shall provide
to the Building Commissioner a written certification of whether the premises
are in compliance with the laws and regulations under their respective
jurisdictions within 20 days of receipt of notice of the application.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall commence the inspection of the
premises for which a sexually oriented business license is sought promptly upon
receipt of notice of the application, and shall complete a written
certification of whether the premises are in compliance with the State Basic
Building Code, the county’s Zoning Code, and the provisions of this chapter
related to physical characteristics of the premises within 30 days after
receipt of the application.
   (D)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed sexually oriented business
license application, the Building Commissioner shall approve or deny the
issuance of a license. The Building Commissioner shall approve the issuance of
a license to an applicant unless he or she determines that one or more of the
following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant who is a natural person is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license, as requested on the application form, or has
falsely answered a question or request for information on the application form;
      (3)   A person identified in the application pursuant to this chapter has
been denied an adult business license, or has had a license to operate a
sexually oriented business revoked within the preceding 12 months by any
jurisdiction;
      (4)   A person identified in the application has been convicted of a
specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter;
      (5)   The proposed sexually oriented business would violate, or fail to
be in compliance with, any provision of the county’s Zoning Ordinance, or any
state statute or regulation;
      (6)   The application and investigation fee required by this chapter has
not been paid; and/or
      (7)   An applicant is in violation of, or not in compliance with, any
provisions of this chapter, except as provided in the chapter.
   (E)   If the Building Commissioner determines that one or both of the
following findings is true, the license issued pursuant to this section shall
contain a requirement that the licensee correct all deficiencies specified
within 120 days of the date the license is issued:
      (1)   The results of inspections of the premises by the Fire Chief, the
Health Commissioner, and/or the Building Commissioner indicate that the
premises are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations under their
respective jurisdictions, including the provisions of this chapter related to
characteristics of the physical premises; and/or
      (2)   An applicant is overdue in payment to the county of taxes, fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against, or imposed upon, him or her in relation
to any business, which are not the subject of a pending appeal or other legal
challenge.
   (F)   If the Building Commissioner determines that no other grounds for
denial of a license exist under this section hereof, the Building Commissioner
shall not delay approval of the application past the end of the 60-day period
provided in this section solely because the Fire Department or the County
Health Department has not provided the Building Commissioner with the results
of his or her inspection of the premises; the results of the Building
Commissioner’s inspection of the premises are not available; and/or the County
Sheriff’s Department has not completed his or her investigation of the criminal
background of the applicant(s).
      (1)   If, after approving the issuance of a license, the Building
Commissioner receives information from his or her investigation which he
determines constitutes grounds for denial of a license under this section, then
the sexually oriented business license issued pursuant to this section shall be
immediately revoked.
      (2)   If, after approving the issuance of a license, the Building
Commissioner receives information concerning the results of inspections of the
premises by the County Sheriff’s Department, the Fire Chief, or the County
Health Department inspection which the Building Commissioner determines
constitutes grounds for the issuance of a license subject to a requirement to
correct deficiencies under this section hereof, then a requirement shall be
added to the terms of the sexually oriented business licenses issued pursuant
to this section hereof to correct all deficiencies noted within 120 days of the
date such requirement is added.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business license, if granted, shall state on its
face the name of the person, or persons, to whom it is granted, the expiration
date, and the address of the licensed sexually oriented business. All sexually
oriented business licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at, or near,
the entrance to the business so that they may be easily read at any time.
   (H)   The Building Commissioner shall advise the applicant, in writing, of
the reasons for any license denial.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.18  ISSUANCE OF EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a completed application for a sexually oriented
business employee license, the Building Commissioner shall issue a temporary
license to said applicant immediately.
   (B)   Within ten days of receipt of a completed application for a sexually
oriented business employee license, the Building Commissioner shall notify the
County Sheriff’s Department of such application.
      (1)   In making such notification, the Building Commissioner shall
request that the County Sheriff’s Department promptly investigate the
information provided in the application concerning the criminal background of
the applicant.
      (2)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall begin investigation promptly
upon receipt of notice of an application from the Building Commissioner, and
shall provide the results of this investigation to the Building Commissioner,
in writing, within 20 days of receipt of notice of the application. Within ten
days after completion of the Sheriff’s investigation of the criminal background
of the applicant, the Building Commissioner shall approve or deny the issuance
of the license, at which time the temporary license shall expire.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner shall approve the issuance of a license
to an applicant unless he or she determines that one or more of the following
findings are true:
         (a)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license as requested on the application form, or
has falsely answered a question or request for information on the application
form;
         (b)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (c)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
activity, as defined in this chapter;
         (d)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used
for employment in a business prohibited by local, state, or federal law,
statute, rule, or regulation; and/or
         (e)   The applicant has been denied a sexually oriented business
employee license, or has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked within the preceding 12 months by any jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 114.19  LICENSING FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a new sexually oriented business license shall
be accompanied by a $750 non-refundable application and investigation fee, per
year.
   (B)   Every application for a new sexually oriented business employee
license shall be accompanied by a $100 non-refundable application and
investigation fee.
   (C)   Every application for a renewal of a sexually oriented business
license shall be accompanied by an annual, non-refundable application,
investigation, and license fee of $250.
   (D)   Every application for renewal of a sexually oriented business employee
license shall be accompanied by an annual, non-refundable application,
investigation, and license fee of $50.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 114.20  LICENSE EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire one year
from the date of issuance and may be renewed via application, as provided in
this section.
      (1)   Application for renewal shall be made no more than 90 days, and no
less than 30 days, before the expiration date.
      (2)   If application is made less than 30 days before the expiration
date, the license will not be extended pending a decision on the application,
but will expire on its normal expiration date.
   (B)   An application for renewal of a sexually oriented business license
shall be submitted to the Building Commissioner on a form provided by the
Building Commissioner.
      (1)   The renewal application may request, and the applicant shall
provide, such information as reasonably necessary to enable the county to
determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established in this
chapter.
      (2)   The completed renewal application shall describe any changes or
additions to, or deletions from, the information provided in the applicant’s
initial license application.
      (3)   The completed renewal application shall be accompanied by copies of
any document or material submitted in connection with the initial license
application that has been revised, or requires revision, to reflect any change
in circumstances or conditions.
   (C)   Sketches or diagrams submitted with an initial sexually oriented
business license application maybe resubmitted with subsequent renewal
applications, provided that the applicant certifies, in writing, that the
sketch or diagram still depicts the premises accurately.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner shall make determinations concerning the
approval of license renewals based on the same criteria used to evaluate
applications for new licenses under this chapter. The Building Commissioner
shall advise the applicant, in writing, of the reason(s) for any denial of a
license renewal.
   (E)   When the county denies an application for renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued another license for one year from the date of
denial. If the county finds, subsequent to denial, that the basis for denial of
the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted
a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the denial was issued.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 114.21  LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The county shall suspend a sexually oriented business license for a
period not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee:
      (1)   Has violated, or is not in compliance with, any section of this
chapter; or
      (2)   Has authorized or approved an employee’s violation of, or failure
to comply with, any section of this chapter, or as a result of the licensee’s
negligent failure to supervise either the premises of the sexually oriented
business or a sexually oriented business, employee has allowed an employee to
violate, or fail to comply with, any section of this chapter.
   (B)   The county shall suspend a sexually oriented business license for a
period not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee, or his or her
employee or agent, has refused to allow an inspection of the licensed sexually
oriented business, as authorized by this chapter.
   (C)   The county shall suspend a sexually oriented business employee license
for a period not to exceed 30 days, if it determines that a licensee has
violated, or is not in compliance with, any section of this chapter.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner shall advise the licensee, in writing, of
the reason(s) for any suspension.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.22  LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   The county shall revoke a sexually oriented business license or
sexually oriented business employee license if a cause of suspension under this
chapter occurs and the license has been suspended two times within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The county shall revoke a sexually oriented business license if it
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   The licensee(s) failed to comply with any requirement stated in the
license pursuant to this chapter, or to correct specified deficiencies within
120 days. Each separate violation of any section of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed, or as a result of the licensee’s
negligent failure to supervise either the premises of the sexually oriented
business, or a sexually oriented business employee has allowed, the possession,
use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee has knowingly allowed, or as a result of the licensee’s
negligent failure to supervise either the premises of the sexually oriented
business, or a sexually oriented business employee has allowed, prostitution,
solicitation, or the commission of a felony on the premises;
      (5)   A licensee operated the sexually oriented business during the a
period of time when the licensee knew, or reasonably should have known, that
the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (6)   A licensee has knowingly allowed, or as a result of the licensee’s
negligent failure to supervise either the premises of the sexually oriented
business, or a sexually oriented business employee has allowed, any act of
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or other sex act to
occur in or on the licensed premises;
      (7)   A licensee has been convicted of a specified criminal activity, as
defined in this chapter, during the term of the license; or
      (8) A licensee is delinquent in payment to the county or state for any
taxes or fees past due that were assessed or imposed in relation to any
business.
   (C)   The county shall revoke a sexually oriented business employee license
if it determines that:
      (1)   The licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   The licensee has acted as an employee on the premises of a sexually
oriented business during a period of time when the licensee knew, or reasonably
should have known, that either the employee’s own license, or the business’s
license, was suspended; or
      (3)   The licensee has been convicted of a specified criminal activity,
as defined in this chapter, during the terms of the license.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner shall advise the licensee, in writing, of
the reason(s) for any revocation.
      (1)   When the county revokes a license, the licensee shall not be issued
another license for one year from the date the revocation became effective.
      (2)   If the county finds, subsequent to revocation, that the basis for
the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant maybe granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.23  LICENSE; APPEAL RIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any denial, suspension, or revocation of a new or renewal
license under this chapter may be appealed to the county’s Board of Zoning
Appeals by written notice within ten days of such denial, suspension, or
revocation.
      (2)   Unless the applicant requests a longer period, the Board of Zoning
Appeals must hold a hearing on the appeal within 30 days, and must issue a
decision affirming or reversing the denial, suspension, or revocation within
five days after the hearing.
   (B)   Any decision by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be a final
appealable order and the applicant or licensee may seek prompt judicial review
of such administrative action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In the event that an applicant or licensee seeks judicial review of a
decision issued pursuant to this chapter, the applicant or licensee shall
provide written notice of such appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals in advance
of, or at the time of, the filing of the appeal.
      (1)   Within ten days of receiving such written notice of appeal, or
within such shorter time as may be ordered by the court, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall transmit to the court in which appeal was sought a copy of the
full administrative record for the matter, including a complete transcript of
all the original papers, testimony, and evidence offered, heard, and taken into
consideration in issuing the final order.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals and all other departments or agencies
of the county shall provide any further information, assistance, or cooperation
requested by the reviewing court without delay.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of this chapter hereof, any licensee
lawfully operating a sexually oriented business prior to the denial of a
license renewal application, or the suspension or revocation of a license, may
continue to operate said business during an appeal of a decision rendered under
this chapter to the Board of Zoning Appeals or to a court.
   (E)   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, any licensee lawfully
acting as an employee in a sexually oriented business prior to the denial of a
license renewal application, or the suspension or revocation of a license, may
continue to serve in such capacity during an appeal of a decision rendered
under this chapter to the Board of Zoning Appeals or to a court.
   (F)   In the event that an applicant for a new sexually oriented business
license, or a new sexually oriented business employee license, seeks judicial
review of the denial of a new license, and such review does not result in a
final judicial decision within 30 days of the date the appeal was filed, the
county will issue such applicant a provisional sexually oriented business
license, or sexually oriented business employee license, upon request of the
applicant. The provisional license:
      (1)   Will allow an applicant for a sexually oriented business license to
operate the sexually oriented business named in the license application under
the same terms as a normal sexually oriented business issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, for the period of time specified in this section;
      (2)   Will allow an applicant for a sexually oriented business employee
license to act as an employee on the premises of a sexually oriented business
under the same terms as a normal sexually oriented business employee license
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for the period of time
specified in this chapter; and
      (3)   Will be subject to the same requirements as a normal sexually
oriented business license, or sexually oriented business employee license,
issued under the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   A provisional license will expire on whichever of the following three
dates is earliest:
      (1)   The date that a judicial decision is issued upholding the license
denial;
      (2)   The date on which a non-provisional sexually oriented business
license, or sexually oriented business employee license, is issued to the
applicant pursuant to a judicial decision overturning the license denial; or
      (3)   The date one year from the issuance of the provisional license.
   (H)   In the event that judicial review of the denial of a new license
application is still pending 30 days before the expiration date of a
provisional license, the provisional licensee may file a renewal license
application with the Building Commissioner pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner shall grant an application for renewal of
a provisional license, unless he or she determines that new grounds exist for
denial of a license application pursuant to this chapter which did not exist at
the time of the original license application.
      (2)   In the event that an application for renewal of a provisional
license is denied and the applicant seeks judicial review of that denial; the
county has the right to consolidate such review with the pending judicial
appeal of the previous license denial.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 114.24  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business license is not transferable from one
licensee to another, or from one location to another. Any purported transfer of
a sexually oriented business license shall automatically and immediately revoke
that license.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business employee license is not transferable from
one licensee to another, but the use of the license by the individual to whom
it was issued may be transferred from one licensed sexually oriented business
to another such licensed establishment during the term of the license, provided
that the licensee gives written notice of such transfer to the County Sheriff’s
Department within 15 days of such transfer.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.25  CHANGE IN INFORMATION.
   During the processing of any application for, or during the term of, any
sexually oriented business license, the applicant or licensee shall promptly
notify the Building Commissioner, in writing, of any change in any material
information given by the applicant or licensee in the application for such
license, including specifically, but without limitation: any change in managers
of the sexually oriented business establishment or in the individuals
identified in the application pursuant to this chapter; or if any of the events
constituting grounds for suspension or revocation pursuant to this chapter
occur.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)
OPERATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 114.40  INSPECTION.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall, from time to time, shall
inspect the portion of each business licensed under the provisions of this
chapter that is open to the public in order to assess compliance.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall, from time to time and at least four
times a year, request that the Health Commissioner inspect the portion of each
sexually oriented business licensed under the provisions of this chapter that
is open to the public in order to assess compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   An applicant or licensee shall permit the Building Commissioner and
representatives of the County Sheriff’s Department, Fire Department, or other
county departments or agencies, or the Health Commissioner, to inspect the
portion of the premises of a sexually oriented business that is open to the
public for the purpose of insuring compliance with the law, at any time that it
is occupied or open for business.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 114.41  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No employee on the premises of a sexually oriented business may appear
in a state of nudity, as defined in this chapter, or engage in specified sexual
activities in a state of nudity, as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Any employee appearing on the premises of a sexually oriented business
in a state of semi-nudity, as defined in this chapter, must be on a stage that
is at least 18 inches from the floor, and at a distance at least 72 inches from
all parts of a clearly designated area in which patrons will be present.
   (C)   All live entertainment and performances in a sexually oriented
business must take place on a stage that is at least 18 inches from the floor
and a distance of at least 72 inches from all parts of a clear designated area
in which patrons will be present.
   (D)   No employee, as defined in the chapter, appearing on the premises of a
sexually oriented business in a state of semi-nudity may intentionally or
knowingly touch a customer or a customer’s clothing, or permit herself or
himself to be touched by a customer or a customer’s clothing.
   (E)   Any live entertainment that is provided on the premises of a sexually
oriented business in a private or semi-private room to five or fewer persons at
any one time must take place in the direct, unobstructed line of sight of an
employee’s station, at which at least one employee is on duty and stationed at
all times during which such entertainment takes place, with all doors to such
room completely open and ajar, if such room is not considered a viewing booth,
as defined in chapter.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to an employee’s use of
any restroom or any single-sex dressing room that is accessible only to
entertainers.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.42  DRESSING ROOMS.
   (A)   (1)   All sexually oriented businesses that offer live entertainment
must provide separate dressing room facilities for female and male
entertainers.
      (2)   No sexually oriented business patron shall be permitted, at any
time, to enter any dressing room provided for the use of sexually oriented
business employees.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business employee, other than an entertainer,
shall be permitted to enter into, and remain in, a dressing room for the
purpose of delivering goods and materials, food or beverages, or performing
maintenance or repairs to the dressing room, or assisting an entertainer with
the application or removal of hairdressing, makeup, or costuming; provided,
however, that any such employee shall remain in the dressing room only for the
purposes of, and to the extent necessary to, perform his or her job duties.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.43  RESTROOMS.
   (A)   All sexually oriented businesses shall provide male and female
restrooms equipped with standard toilets, sinks, and other traditional lavatory
facilities provided for and used by patrons.
   (B)   No live performances shall be provided, or allowed, at any time, in
the restrooms of a sexually oriented business.
   (C)   Male and female restrooms shall be provided for, and used by, sexually
oriented business employees separate from the male and female restrooms
provided for, and used by, the patrons.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.44  MINORS.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted on the premises of a
sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.45  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be open for business at any time
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on any weekday or Saturday; nor
shall any entertainment, service, or product be provided to a customer on the
premises of a sexually oriented business during those hours.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be open for business at any time
on Sunday or on any legal state or federal holiday; nor shall any
entertainment, service, or product be provided to a customer on the premises of
a sexually oriented business during those days.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.46  MINIMUM LIGHTING LEVEL.
   (A)   The premises of every sexually oriented business shall be equipped
with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every
place to which patrons are permitted access, including restrooms, at an
illumination level not less than five-foot candles, as measured at floor level.
   (B)   The illumination described in this chapter shall be maintained at all
times that any patron is present in the premises.
   (C)   In the event of a power failure, the business shall stop operating
immediately and all patrons shall be cleared from the premises. The premises
shall not be re-opened until the minimum illumination level can be assured.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.47  EXTERIOR DISPLAY AND MONITORING.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be operated in any manner that
permits the observation from outside the premises of any material or
entertainment depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this chapter, or any person in a state of
nudity or semi-nudity, whether by means of display, decoration, sign, window,
or any other means.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to:
      (1)   Initiate and enforce a “no loitering” policy within the external
boundaries of the real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located;
      (2)   Post conspicuous signs that no loitering is permitted on such
property;
      (3)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on such property by visually inspecting such property at least once
every 30 minutes, or inspecting such property by use video cameras and
monitors; and
      (4)   Provide adequate lighting of the exterior premises to provide for
visual inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. The video cameras
and monitors shall operate continuously at all times that the premises are open
for business. The monitors shall be installed within a manager’s station.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2007-XI, passed 6-19-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115:  TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INTERNET
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Program processes and procedures
   
115.03   Restrictions
§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERMIT. Any local permit, license, certificate, approval, registration, or
similar form of approval required by policy, administrative rule, regulation,
chapter, or resolution with respect to a project.
   PROJECT. The construction or deployment of wireline or wireless
communications facilities to provide communications services (as defined in
I.C. 8-1-32.5-3) in a unit.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-16-2016)
§ 115.02  PROGRAM PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of any county ordinance,
regulation, policy, or practice, the following shall apply to a project.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall:
      (1)   Appoint a single point of contact for all matters related to a
project;
      (2)   Establish procedures to allow all forms, applications, and
documentation related to a project to be filed or submitted and signed by
electronic means;
      (3)   Review and approve, or reject, all applications for a permit
related to a project within ten business days after an application is filed or
submitted; and
      (4)   Assure that after an application is approved, any inspections,
including any additional necessary approvals, related to a project will occur
in a timely and expeditious manner.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-16-2016)
§ 115.03  RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall adopt adequate processes and
procedures to implement the provisions of §
115.02.
   (B)   Processes and procedures established hereunder may not do the
following:
      (1)   Require an applicant to designate a final contractor to complete a
project;
      (2)   Impose a fee to review an application or issue a permit for a
project;
      (3)   Impose a seasonal moratorium on the issuance of permits for a
project; and/or
      (4)   Discriminate among communications service providers or utilities
with respect to any action described in this section, or otherwise related to a
project, including granting access to public rights-of-way, infrastructure and
poles, river and bridge crossings, and any other physical assets owned or
controlled by the county.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-16-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Weapons generally
   
130.02   Weapons inside the city/county building
   
130.03   Loitering
   
130.04   False alarms reported to County Sheriff’s Department
   
130.05   Obstruction of emergency services
   
130.06   Synthetic cannabinoids
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  WEAPONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING. Includes the entirety of a structure, to include the real
estate upon which such structure may be located, or, if only part of a
structure is owned, leased, or administered by the county, so much thereof as
shall be so owned, leased, or administered.
      FIREARM. Any weapon that is capable of, or designed to, or that may
readily be converted to, expel a projectile by means of an explosion.
      HANDGUN. Any firearm designed or adapted so as to be aimed and fired from
one hand, regardless of barrel length; or any firearm with:
         (a)   A barrel less than 16 inches in length; or
         (b)   An overall length less than 26 inches.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall enter any building owned, leased, or
administered by the county while the person is in possession of a handgun or
other firearm.
   (C)   Exceptions. Division (B) above does not apply to:
      (1)   Judicial officers;
      (2)   Employees of the United States duly authorized to carry firearms;
      (3)   The Commissioner of the Department of Corrections of the state, or
persons authorized by him or her, in writing, to carry firearms;
      (4)   Employees of express companies when engaged in company business;
      (5)   Public safety officers, as defined by the provisions of I.C. 35-47-
4.5-3(1) through (20); or
      (6)   Other law enforcement officers.
(Ord. 2000-XIII, passed 11-21-2000)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  WEAPONS INSIDE THE CITY/COUNTY BUILDING.
   (A)   Prohibition. Carrying of deadly or intermediate weapons, as defined
below, in, or on, New Albany City/County buildings now, or hereafter, owned,
leased as lessee, operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the New Albany/
Floyd County Building Authority is prohibited.
      (1)   Firearms will not be permitted within the secured area of the city/
county building or on the premises, including concealed license holders from
all states and territories.
      (2)   Explosive/incendiary devices or weapons will not be permitted
within the secured area of the city/county building.
      (3)   Chemical weapons will not be permitted within the secured area of
the city/county building, such as mace, pepper spray, or any other device
designated to emit a debilitating chemical.
      (4)   Electronic control devices will not be permitted within the secured
area of the city/county building, such as lasers or stun guns.
      (5)   Edged weapons, including, but not limited to: knives; scissors; ice
picks; and letter openers, will not be permitted within the secured area of the
city/county building.
      (6)   Clubs/striking weapons, including, but not limited to batons, will
not be permitted within the secured area of the city/county building.
      (7)   Hazardous materials will not be permitted within the secured area
of the city/county building, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   All types of organic/in-organic corrosives, inhalants, or
chemicals that are intended or could be used to inflict harm to humans or
property; or
         (b)   Any animals or reptile intended, or that could be used, to
inflict harm to humans or property.
   (B)   Posting of signs required. The County Sheriff, or his or her designee,
is hereby ordered to post appropriate signage on each building, or portion of
the building, now and hereafter owned that states that the carrying of deadly
or intermediate weapons and concealed handguns is prohibited in county
buildings.
   (C)   Location of signs.
      (1)   Signs prohibiting the carrying of deadly or intermediate weapons
shall be posted so as to be visible prior to entering the building.
      (2)   The County Sheriff shall exercise the discretion in determining the
necessity and appropriate location for other signs posted on the interior of
the building.
   (D)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   By specific approval of the County Sheriff, or by request of an
elected official or department head to the Board of Commissioners, or as
authorized by court orders;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel performing official duties will only be
admitted after proper identification is present to the security check point,
including probation officers; and
      (3)   Deadly weapons or intermediate weapons that are evidence in a trial
will be admitted after notification is made to the corresponding court and
approval is granted by the judge.
   (E)   Violations. Violations of this section shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor, as provided by law.
(Ord. 2011-V, passed 3-15-2011)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passers-by in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop
motor vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division
(C) if it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a
lawful purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACEhas the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
§ 130.04  FALSE ALARMS REPORTED TO COUNTY SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT.
   No person, business, or private institution shall report a false alarm to
the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (A)   FALSE ALARM means, in the case of a burglar alarm, an alarm signal or
recorded message indicating an attempted or unauthorized intrusion into a
structure, or the attempted commission of a crime, when, in fact, no evidence
exists upon inspection of the premises upon response to such alarm.
   (B)   A company reporting an alarm as the agent for an alarm holder is not
responsible for the payment of fines, as outlined in §
130.99, which are the sole responsibility of the property owner.
   (C)   The County Sheriff shall designate an individual to be in charge of
tracking all reported false alarms reported to the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (D)   Upon the report of a false alarm the designated person above shall
send notice to the offending property owner of the fine owed by the property
owner in accordance to the schedule of fines in §
130.99.
      (1)   The property owner shall have 15 business days in which to pay the
fine, which can be paid in cash, check, or money order at the front window of
the County Sheriff’s Department.
      (2)   Failure to pay the assessed fine shall result in the matter being
filed in the superior court II of the county. The property owner and/or alarm
company shall then be subject to court costs and attorney fees in addition to
the appropriate fine above.
      (3)   All fines collected in violation of this section and in response to
false alarms responded to by the County Sheriff’s Department shall be paid
directly to the county’s Special Car Fund.
(Ord. 2009-XIII, passed 12-1-2009)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  OBSTRUCTION OF EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a penal ordinance violation for any person,
during a disaster or state of emergency declared pursuant to I.C. 10-4-3 et
seq., and involving the county, to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay the Board of Commissioners,
the County Emergency Management Director, participating emergency services,
authorized emergency management volunteers, or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out, and enforcing emergency plans and procedures;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by, and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as made applicable to such person
by the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the Department
of Emergency Management, or to otherwise falsely identify or purport to be a
county Emergency Management Authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the state, or any of its
political subdivisions, is hereby empowered to issue and serve a civil citation
against any person found to be committing an offense set forth in division (A)
above.
(Ord. 2003-XXVII, passed 8-19-2003)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06  SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   Title XI, Chapter 122, titled “Sale of Synthetic Cannabinoids Prohibited,”
is hereby adopted to read as follows:
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids such as K2/Spice, or
similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical compounds:
      (1)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymehtyl)-6, 6 dimethyl-3-(2mcthyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7, 10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-a-ol, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   1-Butyl-3-(1-napthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-073; and/or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative shall not be sold,
marketed, or offered for sale within the unincorporated county.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids may not be burned,
incinerated, or ignited in any public place or on any property owned, leased,
or controlled by the county.
   (C)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of divisions (A) and (B)
above shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punishable by the
provisions found in §
130.99.
      (1)   All penalties shall be processed through the County Clerk.
      (2)   If, after multiple violations by the same person or entity, the
County Attorney and the County Sheriff’s Department have reasons to believe
that the imposition of fines will not be effective in enforcing this section,
the County Attorney shall be empowered to seek any other remedies provided by
law.
(Ord. 2010-XXV, passed 12-21-2010)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   An action shall be brought by the County Prosecutor, in the name of
the county and in accordance with the provisions if I.C. 34-28-5 et seq., to
recover a judgment against a person violating §
130.01 in an amount not to exceed $2,500, together with costs of the action.
   (C)   Any person who reports false alarms to the County Sheriff’s
Department, as described in §
130.04, shall be fined as follows during any calendar year.
      (1)   Six false alarms in one calendar year shall be allowed at no
penalty to the property owner.
      (2)   The seventh false alarm shall result in a $75 fine.
      (3)   The eighth false alarm shall result in a $150 fine.
      (4)   The ninth and all subsequent false alarms shall result in a fine of
$300 each.
   (D)   Any person who commits an offense as set forth in §
130.05(A) shall be subject to a fine of $2,500; such fine to be subject,
however, to the discretion of the court of jurisdiction.
   (E)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of §
130.06 shall be guilty of an infraction, and shall be subject to a fine of:
      (1)   Not more than $50 for the first violation;
      (2)   Not more than $150 for the second violation;
      (3)   Not more than $300 for the third violation; and
      (4)   Not more than $1,000 for fourth and subsequent violations.
(Ord. 2000-XIII, passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2003- XXVII, passed 8-19-2003; Ord.
2009-XIII, passed 12-1-2009; Ord. 2010-XXV, passed 12-21-2010)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   STORMWATER
      
153.   STREETS, DRIVES, AND PUBLIC WALKWAYS
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
   
150.02   Development plan for public works near cemeteries/burial grounds
§ 150.01  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The county’s 2017 Comprehensive Plan regulations, and any and all
amendments, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set
out in full.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Plan shall be used as the policy for future
amendments to, or the creation of, various regulatory mechanism for its
enforcement, including the county’s land use ordinances.
§ 150.02  DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR PUBLIC WORKS NEAR CEMETERIES/BURIAL GROUNDS.
   The Board of Commissioners has approved the Development Plan guidelines for
public works projects that are within 100 feet of a known cemetery or burial
ground, as described below.
   (A)   The Development Plan will consist of the following elements:
      (1)   Description of the nature of the public works project;
      (2)   Estimated time frame for construction of project;
      (3)   Description of the location by section, township, and range;
      (4)   Construction plans for the proposed area, including:
         (a)   Depth of construction, excavating, grading, or filling;
         (b)   Description of soils that are present; and
         (c)   Description of type of construction to take place.
      (5)   Location of cemetery or known burial grounds using a USGS seven and
one-half-minute quadrangle map;
      (6)   Name of the cemetery;
      (7)   Deed reference, if available, for cemetery or burial ground; and
      (8)   Photos of the current condition of cemetery or burial ground.
   (B)   If a project discovers or disturbs a cemetery or burial ground, the
unit will follow the guidelines set forth in I.C. 14-21-1-29, which is stated
in division (C) below.
   (C)   The person who discovers, uncovers, or moves an artifact or burial
object while disturbing the ground for a purpose other than the discovery,
uncovering, or moving of artifacts or burial objects shall do the following:
      (1)   Immediately cease disturbing the ground and the area within 100
feet of the artifact or burial object; and
      (2)   Notify the State Department of Natural Resources within two
business days after the time of the disturbance.
   (D)   The county will follow I.C. 23-14-57 in regards to the treatment of
any discovered, uncovered, or disturbed remains found in the course of a
project.
(Ord. 2013-XI, passed 8-6-2013)
CHAPTER 151:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Unsafe Building Law
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   (A)   Adoption. This section shall be known as the Unsafe Building Law of
the county, and the requirements herein apply throughout the unincorporated
territory of the county. I.C. 36-7-9-1 through I.C. 36-7-9-28stateRef is hereby
adopted by reference as the Unsafe Building Law of the county, and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
      (1)   All proceedings within the county for the inspection, repair, and
removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by the Indiana Code and the
provisions of this section. In the event the provisions of this section
conflict with the Indiana Code, then the provisions of the Indiana Code shall
control.
      (2)   The building standards and rules of the State Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, as set forth in the Indiana Code and in the Indiana
Administrative Code, are adopted as the building standards and rules for
matters considered under the terms of this section.
   (B)   Administration. The Director of Operations and Planning for the Board
of Commissioners, or his or her designate, is authorized to administer the
county’s Unsafe Building Law and to order the repair or removal of unsafe
buildings and structures in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
   (C)   Public nuisance. All building, structures, or portions thereof which
are determined after inspection by the enforcement authority to be unsafe, as
defined in this section, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and shall
be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT. The county’s Planning Commission.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Director of Operations and Planning for the
county’s Board of Commissioners, or the designee of the Director.
      HEARING AUTHORITY. The Board of Commissioners, acting as the primary
hearing board for disputes that arise under this section.
      SEALING A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Padlocking the entries to the building
or structure and posting the building or structure with a notice that forbids
entry to the building or structure, and securing all other entry points to the
building or structure from entry, as prescribed by the enforcement authority.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this section, including
a fee interest, a life estate, interest, a future interest, a present
possessory interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
      UNSAFE BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. (The foregoing definition of an unsafe
building or structure is intended to supplement the definition of that term
contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4, and to provide minimum standards for building and
structure condition and maintenance.) Any building or structure that has any of
the conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that such conditions
or defects exist to the, extent that life, health, property, or safety of the
public, or its occupants, are endangered:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or any other means of exit
is not of sufficient width or size, or is not so arranged as to provide safe
and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (b)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway,
or other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (c)   Whenever the stress in any materials, members, or portion
thereof, due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times
the working stress, or stresses, allowed for new buildings of similar
structure, purposes, or location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood, or by any other cause to such an extent that the
structural strength, or stability thereof, is materially less than it was
before such catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location;
         (e)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse, and thereby injure
persons or property damage;
         (f)   Whenever any portion of a building, of any member, appurtenance,
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
         (g)   Whenever any portion thereof has racked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
         (h)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, is
likely to partially or completely collapse because of:
            1.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
            2.   Faulty construction;
            3.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such a building;
            4.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundations; or
            5.   Any other cause.
         (i)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
         (j)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting member, enclosing or
outside walls, or coverage;
         (l)   Whenever the building or structure has been damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated so as to become:
            1.   An attractive nuisance to children; or
            2.   Freely accessible to people for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts or maintaining a common nuisance.
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the county, or of any law or ordinance of the state or the county relating
to the condition, location, or structure of buildings;
         (n)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-
supporting, portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member, or
portion less than 66% of the:
            1.   Strength;
            2.   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
            3.   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy
in the same location.
         (o)   Whenever a building structure used, or intended to be used, for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
sanitation facilities, or otherwise is determined by the County Health
Department to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition
that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (p)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient, fire-resistive construction, is determined by the Fire Department
to be a fire hazard; and/or
         (q)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on the
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building, or portion thereof, as an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
      UNSAFE PREMISES. An unsafe building or structure and the tract of real
property on which the unsafe building or structure is located.
   (E)   Order and notice.
      (1)   The enforcement authority is authorized to issue an order requiring
any remedies described in I.C. 36-7-9-5 and containing the information and time
limit required by I.C. 36-7-9-5.
      (2)   An order that requires sealing a building under I.C. 36-7-9-5(a)
requires notification to each person holding any fee-interest or life estate.
For other orders issued under I.C. 36-7-9-12, each person having a substantial
property interest in the unsafe premises must be notified.
      (3)   Notification under this section must be made in accordance with
I.C. 36-7-9-25.
   (F)   Hearing a review. Hearing and review are provided as set forth in I.C.
36-7-9-3 and I.C. 36-7-9-8. A hearing is not required to carry out an order to
seal a building. However, a previously issued order to seal may be modified or
rescinded only if the persons previously notified have been notified of the
change or rescission by means of a written statement in the manner prescribed
by I.C. 36-7-9-6. The order to seal does not become final until ten days from
issuance, within which time a fee interest or life estate holder may, in
writing, request a hearing.
   (H)   Emergency orders.
      (1)   Emergency action in order to protect life, safety, or property may
be taken, without issuing an order or giving notice, but shall be taken in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-9. The action is limited to the abatement of
immediate danger.
      (2)   The county may recover the costs of the action by filing a suit in
the county’s circuit or superior court against person then holding the fee
interest or a life estate in the unsafe premises.
      (3)   Alternatively, the enforcement authority may bring a civil action
under I.C. 36-7-9-17 and I.C. 36-7-9-22stateRef, alleging the existence of
unsafe premises that present an immediate danger to the community sufficient to
warrant emergency action. In such case, there shall be a hearing within ten
days on the complaint.
   (I)   Manner of performance. The manner of performance of work, including
bids and notifications, must be in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-11.
   (J)   Costs.
      (1)   The cost of the work performed under this section shall be the
responsibility, of the persons that hold fee interests or life estates in the
unsafe premises. Costs shall be determined on the basis of the factors listed
in I.C. 36-7-9-12.
      (2)   Objections and requests for a hearing on bills submitted to
responsible parties may be filed in a state court of general jurisdiction in
the county. Unpaid costs are subject to the procedure in I.C. 36-7-9-13, and
may result in a judgment against the real or personal property of the persons
who are responsible for the costs.
   (K)   Unsafe Building Fund. An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in
the operating budget of the county, in accordance with the provisions of I.C.
36-7-9-14.
   (L)   Standard of work.
      (1)   All work for reconstruction, alteration, repair, or demolition
shall be performed in a good, workperson-like manner according to the accepted
standards and practices in the trade.
      (2)   The provisions of the building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3,
adopted as rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission (675
I.A.C.), including 675 I.A.C. 12-4-9 and 675 I.A.C. 12-4-11(a), shall be
considered standard and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this
section by the Executive Director of the County Area Plan Commission.
   (M)   Inspection warrants. The enforcement authority may obtain an
inspection warrant from the court in cases when the owner or possessors refuse
the authority permission to inspect as provided in I.C. 36-7-9-16.
   (N)   Enforcement. The enforcement authority may request the County Attorney
to bring a civil action in a court of general jurisdiction in the county
seeking remedies authorized in I.C. 36-7-9-19 and I.C. 36-7-9-22stateRef,
including a request to the court for forfeiture up to $1,000.
   (O)   Violations. It shall be a violation of this section for a person to:
      (1)   Remain in, use, or enter a building in violation of this section;
      (2)   Knowingly interfere with, or delay the carrying out of, an order
made under this section;
      (3)   Knowingly obstruct, damage, or interfere with persons engaged, or
property used, in performing any work or duty under this section;
      (4)   Erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or cause of
permit the same to be done, contrary to, or in violation of, any of the
provisions of this section or any order issued by the Enforcement Authority;
and/or
      (5)   Fail to comply with I.C. 36-7-9-27 regarding information on
transfers of property interest.
(Ord. 2012-XIV, passed - -; Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-2-2018)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Persons in violation of §
151.01, as described in §
151.01(O), shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense. Each
day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2012-XIV, passed - -)
CHAPTER 152:  STORMWATER
Section
Construction Site Runoff
   
152.001   Title, purpose, and general provisions
   
152.002   Recitals
   
152.003   Objectives
   
152.004   Definitions
   
152.005   Authority; right of entry
   
152.006   Perimeter Control Plan
   
152.007   Acceptance
   
152.008   Stormwater quality management permit (SWQMP)
   
152.009   Inspection and maintenance
   
152.010   Enforcement
   
152.011   Compatibility
Stormwater Illicit Discharge Control
   
152.025   Jurisdiction
   
152.026   Recitals
   
152.027   Objectives
   
152.028   Definitions
   
152.029   Authority; right of entry
   
152.030   Illicit discharge
   
152.031   Enforcement
   
152.032   Compatibility
Post-Construction Stormwater Management
   
152.045   Applicability
   
152.046   Post-Construction Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)
   
152.047   Approved Stormwater Best Management Practices (BMPs)
   
152.048   BMP design requirements
   
152.049   BMP ownership and easements
   
152.050   Coordination with regional BMPs
   
152.051   Coordination with Master Plans and watershed studies
   
152.052   Stormwater quality management permit closure
   
152.053   As-built requirements
   
152.054   Long-term operation and maintenance
Stormwater Drainage Maintenance
Standards and Control
   
152.065   Authority
   
152.066   Finding and purpose
   
152.067   Applicability
   
152.068   Definitions
   
152.069   General requirements
   
152.070   Inspections
   
152.071   Enforcement and remedies
   
152.072   Compliance with other laws
 
   
152.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Long-term operation and maintenance agreement
CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF
§ 152.001  TITLE, PURPOSE, AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the Stormwater Ordinance of the
county and may be so cited.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. This chapter shall govern all properties and controlled
activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the unincorporated county
and all properties that are served by City of New Albany Plan Commission under
its two-mile fringe authority.
   (C)   Alternatives. There are two alternatives for permit application and
processing procedures, as described by the following.
      (1)   For projects located within the county’s MS4 area:
         (a)   The project site owner shall submit an application for a
stormwater management permit to the county. The application will include the
information specified in §§
152.045 through
152.054 and
152.065 through
152.072. Two copies of each application must be submitted. Additionally, the
county does require digital submission of construction plans in an approved
format. The copies will be reviewed by departments within the county;
         (b)   Once all comments have been compiled from the departments and
the SWCD, the project will be placed on the agenda of the next scheduled
meeting of the Plan Commission. The county will furnish the applicant with a
complete list of comments and objections to the plans and supporting
documentation submitted by the applicant at least ten days prior to the
scheduled meeting; and
         (c)   Within ten days after the meeting, the county will either issue
a permit or request modification to the construction plans.
      (2)   For projects located only partially within the county’s MS4 area,
the project site owner must comply with the requirements of this chapter and
may also be required to comply with 327 I.A.C. 15-5 (Rule 5) and/or another MS4
community’s construction site control ordinance.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The following development activities are exempt from the provisions
of this chapter:
         (a)   Agricultural land management activities;
         (b)   Additions to, or modifications of, existing detached, single-
family dwellings;
         (c)   Development of individual lots which are not part of a larger
development, if the total disturbance is less than one acre; and
         (d)   Development that does not disturb more than 5,000 square feet of
land. This exception does not apply to tracts or parcels, whether in common or
separate ownership, which have been subdivided from a single parent tract, if
the total area within the original parent tract.
      (2)   These exemptions apply only to permitting procedures under this
chapter and do not, necessarily, apply to any discharge of sediment or other
form of water pollution that may leave a site. Such discharges may, in fact,
constitute prohibited illicit discharges.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.002  RECITALS.
   (A)   Uncontrolled stormwater drainage/discharge may have a significant
adverse impact on the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
county. More specifically, surface water runoff can carry pollutants and
sediment pollution into receiving waters. The potential impacts include:
      (1)   Changing natural ecosystems through the destruction of habitat and
the loss of plant and animal life;
      (2)   Posing significant health risks through an increase in bacteria and
toxic materials;
      (3)   Accelerating eutrophication of receiving waters by introducing
excessive nutrients;
      (4)   Increasing metal deposits creating toxicity for aquatic life;
      (5)   Reducing oxygen levels because of oil, grease, and organic matter;
      (6)   Affecting animal and plant life, adversely, due to changing
temperatures of receiving waters; and
      (7)   Accumulation of excess sediment and/or debris that limits the
function of flood control infrastructure.
   (B)   Adverse water quantity and quality consequences, described above, may
result in substantial economic losses. Potential losses include, but are not
limited to: increased wastewater treatment costs; diminished property values;
as well as state and federal fines associated with water quality violations.
   (C)   Every parcel of property, both private and public, either uses or
benefits from the county’s stormwater system.
   (D)   Current and anticipated growth will contribute to, and increase the
need for, an effective stormwater system.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.003  OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Protection of the short-term and long-term public health, safety, and
general welfare. This objective will be achieved by:
      (1)   Providing for regulation and management of the county’s stormwater
system, including public and private facilities in its service area;
      (2)   Protecting and preserving water quality and fish and wildlife
habitat within the county and in downstream receiving waters; and
      (3)   Protecting those downstream from water quality impairment.
   (B)   (1)   Compliance with state and federal stormwater regulations
developed pursuant to the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
(Pub. Law No. 92-500), Amendments of 1987, being Pub. Law No. 100-4, February
4, 1987, and subsequent amendments through 2001.
      (2)   The objectives of these regulations include:
         (a)   Managing the quality of water discharged to the municipal
stormwater system by controlling the contribution of pollutants associated with
residential, commercial, and industrial activity;
         (b)   Controlling stormwater pollution caused by the suspension and
transport of soils and other sediments; and
         (c)   Protecting or enhancing stormwater quality to a level of
“designated use” and minimizing the impacts from new development and/or areas
of significant redevelopment.
   (C)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to maximize beneficial
use, without increasing flood hazard potential or diminishing the quality of
the natural stormwater resources;
   (D)   Ensure the use of the public and private stormwater management system
and assure that it will not result in excessive maintenance costs;
   (E)   Encourage the use of natural and aesthetically pleasing designs that
maximize preservation of natural areas;
   (F)   Control the discharge of sediment and construction site materials into
the stormwater system;
   (G)   Guide the construction of stormwater management facilities by
developing comprehensive master plans to address stormwater quantity and
quality; and
   (H)   Encourage preservation of flood plains, floodways, and open spaces to
protect and benefit the community’s quality of life and natural resources.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.004  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. Includes Floyd County, acting through its duly appointed, qualified,
and acting advisory Plan Commission, together with the officers, employees,
attorneys, and designees of said commission.
   PERIMETER/OUTFALL PROTECTION PERMIT. A legal document that allows the permit
holder to break ground or disturb soil in order to install sediment control
practices at the hydro logic perimeter outfall(s) of a construction site. This
document does not give permission to the permit holder to break ground or
disturb soil on an entire construction site, as is granted through the issuance
of a stormwater quality management permit.
   PERSON. Except to the extent exempted from this section, any individual,
partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation,
trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility,
cooperative, city, county, or other political subdivision of the state, any
interstate body, or any other legal entity.
   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL INSPECTOR. A person who has been certified by the
county to be qualified to inspect stormwater quality management activities and
oversee maintenance activities.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The person causing or permitting a prohibited act in
violation of this section; or the person in control of, or having the right to
control, the property or premises from which a prohibited act has occurred.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PERMIT. A legal document that allows the
permit holder to break ground or disturb soil on an entire construction site
within the provisions of a Grading Plan and a Stormwater Pollution Prevention
Plan.
      (1)   The PERMIT addresses erosion prevention, sediment control, and non-
sediment pollution prevention activities. The plans for this PERMIT and the
perimeter/outfall protection permit are approved simultaneously.
      (2)   However, the STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PERMIT is only issued
after the provisions of the perimeter/outfall protection permit have been
implemented, inspected and accepted. Approval of plans for a STORMWATER QUALITY
MANAGEMENT PERMIT does not constitute issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.005  AUTHORITY; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   (1)   The county shall have right-of-entry on or upon, the property of
any person subject to this chapter and any permit document issued hereunder.
      (2)   The county shall be provided ready access to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, monitoring, sampling, inventory,
records examination and copying, and the performance of any other duties
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Where a property, site, or facility has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premise, the responsible party shall make necessary arrangements with its
security personnel so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, the
county will be permitted to enter without delay.
   (C)   Access by the county shall include the right to erect upon the
property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of
stormwater operations or discharges.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
areas to be inspected and/or monitored shall be removed promptly upon request
and at no cost to the county.
   (E)   The county may inspect the facilities of any person in order to ensure
compliance with this chapter, shall be made only after reasonable notice to,
and consent of, the responsible party. However, if such consent is refused,
denied, or not promptly tendered, the county, may seek appropriate judicial
orders permitting such entry.
   (F)   The county has the right to determine and impose inspection schedules
necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter. Inspections may include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   An initial inspection prior to stormwater management approval plan;
      (2)   An inspection prior to burial of any underground drainage
structure;
      (3)   Erosion control inspections as necessary to ensure effective
control of sediment prior to discharge to the municipal separate sewer system;
      (4)   A final inspection when all work, including installation of
stormwater management facilities, have been completed; and
      (5)   An inspection to determine the effectiveness or operational
viability of a permanent or long-term stormwater quality management practice.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.006  PERIMETER CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   The Perimeter Control Plan shall include measures to prevent sediment
from leaving the site during initial disturbance activities and prior to
temporary or permanent erosion prevention and/or sediment control practices.
   (B)   The Perimeter Control Plan shall address downstream outfall points,
while the Grading Plan defines site-wide erosion prevention and sediment
control measures.
   (C)   (1)   The Perimeter Control Plan shall address prevention of sediment
deposition on properties adjacent to the project site.
      (2)   Utilizing well-vegetated buffer strips along lower perimeters,
sediment barriers, filters, diversion berms, sediment basins, or other means
accepted by county may all be employed or combined to adequately protect
adjacent properties.
   (D)   (1)   In selection of sediment control measures, the type of flow,
site terrain, soil type, and other relevant factors shall be considered. Buffer
strips may only be utilized for sheet flow and must be at least 25 feet in
width.
      (2)   If ineffective, a single sediment control device shall be
supplemented with additional perimeter controls.
   (E)   (1)   The Perimeter Control Plan shall address stabilizing
construction entrances/exits to reduce the amount of sediment transported onto
nearby roadways, and potentially into waterways.
      (2)   (a)   Where possible, traffic entering a public right-of-way,
alley, sidewalk, or parking lot shall first pass over a stabilized stone pad.
         (b)   This pad shall be at least six inches thick, 100 feet long, and
contain two-inch to three-inch crushed coarse graded stone. If operating under
seasonally wet conditions and/or soft soils, filter fabric shall underlie the
stabilized stone pad.
   (F)   (1)   The Perimeter Control Plan shall address protection of outlets
such as pipes, drains, culverts, conduits, or channels by significantly
minimizing erosion and sedimentation through reduction of the velocity of flows
from the project site.
      (2)   The placement of rock, grouted riprap, or concrete rubble at the
outlet of a pipe to prevent scour of the soil around the culvert mouth caused
by the high pipe flow velocities or similar measures are encouraged.
   (G)   For construction sites less than one acre, a Perimeter Control Plan
may be required, if deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.007  ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   Site inspection and approval by the county must be received before any
land disturbance or grading may proceed.
   (B)   (1)   The county shall make inspections of the site prior to the
acceptance of the Perimeter Protection Plan; inspection will be performed
within seven days after the submission of the Plan and installation of the
perimeter protection devices, but before any disturbance or clearing has been
performed.
      (2)   The inspector shall either approve the portion of work completed or
shall advise the permittee as to the noncompliance with the Perimeter
Protection Plan, as approved.
   (C)   Inspection of perimeter protection BMPs shall consist of a visual
check list for each type of BMP, to ensure that each was designed and installed
according to site specific conditions.
   (D)   (1)   Acceptance of the perimeter control plan and inspection of the
appropriate best management practices (BMPs) shall compensate for and address
any seasonal variations which may hinder the effectiveness of the BMPs.
      (2)   Seasonal variations may include changes in flow, hydrology,
temperature, and vegetation. BMPs shall be designed according to these
variations and appropriately to maintain a level of service.
   (E)   The State Department of Natural Resource’s guidance documents,
including the Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas (1985), or the
Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual, should be reviewed and considered when
preparing the Perimeter Control Plan.
   (F)   The county reserves the right to develop or adopt other guidance
documents to serve as design and implementation standards.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.008  STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PERMIT (SWQMP).
   (A)   The county requires that all non-exempt development or redevelopment
activities obtain a stormwater quality management permit. A stormwater quality
management permit must be issued prior to the initiation of any land-disturbing
activities to ensure the protection of the county’s stormwater system, public
health, water quality, and aquatic life.
      (1)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete
a stormwater permit application and to ensure that a sufficient construction
plan, including a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP), is completed
and submitted to the Stormwater Board in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
compliance with this chapter and implementation of the SWPPP during the
construction activity, and to notify the county of project termination via a
notice of termination (NOT) letter upon completion and stabilization of the
site. However, all persons engaging in construction and land-disturbing
activities on a permitted project site must comply with the requirements of
this chapter.
      (3)   Submissions for a stormwater quality management permit application
must include, but not be limited to, a notice of intent letter with proof of
publication of a public notice, Construction Plans, Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan, and any other necessary information or documentation requested
by the county.
   (B)   The notice of intent (NOI) letter is a standard form that includes the
following information:
      (1)   Applicant name;
      (2)   Applicant mailing address;
      (3)   Location of the project site for which the notification is
submitted;
      (4)   The project site owner’s name, address, telephone number, e-mail
address (if available);
      (5)   Ownership status as federal, state, public, private, or other
entity;
      (6)   Contact information (if different than project site owner)
including person’s name, company name, address, e-mail address (if available),
and telephone number;
      (7)   A brief description of the construction project, including a
statement of the total acreage of the project site. Total acreage claimed in
the NOI letter shall be consistent with the acreage covered in the construction
plan;
      (8)   Estimated dates for initiation and completion of construction
activities;
      (9)   The latitude and longitude of the approximate center of the project
site to the nearest 15 seconds, and the nearest quarter-section, township,
range, and civil township in which the project site is located;
      (10)   Total impervious surface area, in square feet, of the final
project site including structures, roads, parking lots, and other similar
improvements; and
      (11)   The number of acres to be involved in the construction activities.
   (C)   Proof of publication of a public notice in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county for at least one day notifying the public that
construction activities are to commence, and that states the following:
 
(Company name, address) is submitting an NOI letter to notify Floyd County
Stormwater Department and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management of
our intent to comply with the requirements the Construction Site Runoff Control
Ordinance of Floyd County, Indiana, and the requirements of 327 I.A.C.15-5 and
327 I.A.C. 15-13 to discharge stormwater from construction activities for the
following project: (name of the construction project, address of the location
of the construction project). Runoff from the project site will discharge to
stream(s) receiving the discharges.
 
   (D)   As applicable, a list of all MS4 areas designated under 327 I.A.C. 15-
13 in which the project site lies together with a signed certification that:
      (1)   The stormwater quality measures included in the construction plan
comply with the requirements of this chapter and that the SWPPP complies with
all applicable federal, state, and local stormwater requirements;
      (2)   The measures required by this section will be implemented in
accordance with the SWPPP;
      (3)   Stormwater quality measures beyond those specified in the
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan will be implemented during the life of the
permit, if necessary, to comply with this chapter; and
      (4)   Installation and maintenance of stormwater quality measures will be
inspected by trained individuals.
   (E)   The name of the receiving water(s) or, if the discharge is to a
municipal separate storm sewer, the name of the municipal operator of the storm
sewer and the ultimate receiving water. The NOI letter must be signed by a
qualified professional. The NOI Letter must be submitted to the County
Stormwater Department and Plan Commission at the following location/address:
Pine View Government Center
Attn: Floyd County Stormwater Department
2524 Corydon Pike Suite 201
New Albany, IN 47150
 
Pine View Government Center
Attn: Floyd County Plan Commission
2524 Corydon Pike Suite 203
New Albany, IN 47150
   (F)   Construction plan sheets and an accompanying narrative report shall be
submitted describing existing and proposed site conditions, including the
following.
      (1)   Project narrative and supporting documents, including the following
information:
         (a)   An index indicating the location in the construction plans of
all information required by this section;
         (b)   Description of the nature and purpose of the project;
         (c)   Legal description of the project site. The description should be
to the nearest quarter-section, township, and range, and include the civil
township;
         (d)   Soil properties, characteristics, limitations, and hazards
associated with the project site and the measures that will be integrated into
the project to overcome or minimize adverse soil conditions;
         (e)   General construction sequence of how the project site will be
built, including phases of construction;
         (f)   Fourteen-Digit Watershed Hydrologic Unit Code (HUC);
         (g)   A reduced plat or project site map showing the lot numbers, lot
boundaries, and road layout and names. The reduced map must be legible and
submitted on a sheet or sheets no larger than 11 inches by 17 inches for all
phases or sections of the project site;
         (h)   A general site plan exhibit with the proposed construction are
superimposed on ortho-aerial map at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet. The
exhibit should provide two-foot contour information and include all roads and
buildings within a minimum 500-foot radius beyond the project boundaries;
         (i)   Identification of any other state or federal water quality
permits that are required for construction activities associated with the
owner’s project site; and
         (j)   A vicinity map depicting the project site location in
relationship to recognizable local landmarks, towns, and major roads, such as a
USGS topographic quadrangle map, or county or municipal road map.
      (2)   An existing project site layout that must include, but is not
limited to, the following information:
         (a)   Location, name, and normal water level of all wetlands, lakes,
ponds, and watercourses on, or adjacent to, the project site;
         (b)   Location of all existing structures on the project site;
         (c)   One hundred-year floodplains, floodway fringes, and floodways
(please note if none exists);
         (d)   Soil map of the predominant soil types, as determined by the
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Natural Resources Conservation
Service (NRCS) Soil Survey, or as determined by a soil scientist. A soil legend
must be included with the soil map;
         (e)   Identification and delineation of vegetative cover, such as
grass, weeds, brush, and trees, on the project site;
         (f)   Location of storm, sanitary, combined sewer, and septic tank
systems, and outfalls;
         (g)   Location of regulated drains, farm drains, inlets, and outfalls,
if any exist of record;
         (h)   Land use of all adjacent properties; and
         (i)   Existing topography at a contour interval appropriate to
indicate drainage patterns.
      (3)   Final project site layout, including the following information:
         (a)   Location of all proposed site improvements, including roads,
utilities, lot delineation and identification, proposed structures, and common
areas;
         (b)   One hundred-year floodplains, floodway fringes, and floodways
(please note if none exists); and
         (c)   Proposed final topography at a contour interval appropriate to
indicate drainage patterns.
      (4)   A Grading Plan, including the following information:
         (a)   The Grading Plan shall include provisions for operation and
maintenance of measures identified in the Perimeter Control Plan;
         (b)   The Grading Plan shall make clear the erosion prevention and
sediment controls which are most appropriate to the specific site conditions;
         (c)   The Grading Plan shall illustrate the location and extent of
erosion prevention and sediment controls;
         (d)   The Grading Plan shall include sequencing and schedule
information, structural and non-structural best management practices (BMPs),
and temporary and permanent stabilization measures;
         (e)   The Grading Plan shall include anticipated inspection and
maintenance requirements for permanent and temporary measures. This shall
include the expected frequency of routine inspections and maintenance
activities (such as removal of sediment and construction debris); and
         (f)   The Grading Plan shall include provisions for construction
phasing. This shall be designed so that stripping and clearing of the site
exposes only the area necessary for immediate activities and minimizes the
amount of soil exposed at any one time. This includes rough grading,
construction of utilities, infrastructure and buildings, and final grading and
landscaping. Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing of the
area will begin and the estimated duration of exposure. The sequence of phased
clearing and the installation of temporary and permanent erosion control
measures should be identified.
      (5)   The Grading Plan shall include provisions for a no-disturbance
waterway buffer, including:
         (a)   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be defined as 25 feet
from the top of waterway bank, as defined by geomorphic shape and not by the
current water surface elevation; and
         (b)   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be applied to all
waterways and open-air drainage systems that drain more than 100 acres of
tributary area, or is presented on a United States geological survey map as a
solid and dashed blue line stream.
      (6)   The Grading Plan shall include provisions for stabilizing denuded
areas and soil stockpiles.
         (a)   Soil stabilization shall be designed to prevent the erosive
forces of rain and water flow from washing soil from the site. Soil
stabilization measures may be temporary and/or permanent and should be
appropriate to the seasonal hydrology, site conditions, and estimated duration
the measure will be in place.
         (b)   Disturbed areas must be stabilized with permanent or temporary
soil stabilization measures within 15 days of either achieving final grade, or
within 15 days to any area that will remain dormant for over 60 days.
         (c)   Soil stockpiles, if left undisturbed for 15 or more days, shall
be stabilized. Sediment trapping measures, such as sediment traps and detention
ponds, shall be utilized to prevent soil loss from the project site through the
duration of soil stockpiling practices.
   (G)   The Grading Plan shall include provisions for stabilizing cut and fill
slopes. Minimization of erosion must be considered when designing and
constructing cut and fill slopes. Length, steepness, soil type, upslope
tributary area, groundwater, and other relevant factors must all be taken into
account.
      (1)   Stabilization practices, such as rock rip-rap, geosynthetic
material, or other methods approved by the county, shall be used on cut and
fill slopes at three to one or greater.
      (2)   Cut and fill slopes must be stabilized with permanent or temporary
soil stabilization measures within 15 days of either achieving final grade, or
within 15 days to any area that will remain dormant for over 60 days.
   (H)   The Grading Plan shall include provisions for erosion prevention
measures. Erosion prevention measures shall be designed to minimize the
suspension of sediment from the soil. The controls may function independently
or in combination with sediment control measures to prevent sediment-laden
runoff from leaving the construction site. Acceptable erosion prevention
practices include:
      (1)   Phased construction/clearing;
      (2)   Dust control;
      (3)   Construction road stabilization;
      (4)   Temporary seeding;
      (5)   Top soiling;
      (6)   Mulching;
      (7)   Nets and mats;
      (8)   Geotextiles;
      (9)   Terracing;
      (10)   Soil bioengineering;
      (11)   Slope and stream stabilization;
      (12)   Rip-rap;
      (13)   Channel linings;
      (14)   Temporary diversions, drains, and swales;
      (15)   Stream crossings;
      (16)   Water bar; and
      (17)   Other measures reviewed and accepted by the county are also
appropriate erosion prevention.
   (I)   The Grading Plan shall include provisions for sediment control
measures. Sediment control measures shall be designed to remove sediment (by
settling, flocculating, filtering, or other means) from storm runoff prior to
discharge from the construction site. The controls may function independently
or in combination with erosion prevention measures to prevent sediment-laden
runoff from leaving the construction site. Acceptable sediment control
practices include:
      (1)   Stabilized construction entrance;
      (2)   Construction entrance tire washing;
      (3)   Buffer zones;
      (4)   Check dams;
      (5)   Silt fence;
      (6)   Double layered straw bale barrier;
      (7)   Sand bag barrier;
      (8)   Brush, rock filter, and continuous berms;
      (9)   Sediment traps;
      (10)   Temporary sediment/detention basin;
      (11)   Temporary inlet protection;
      (12)   Temporary outlet protection;
      (13)   Infiltration systems;
      (14)   Wet detention ponds;
      (15)   Dry detention ponds;
      (16)   Constructed wetlands;
      (17)   Bio-filter swales;
      (18)   Water quality inlets and hydrodynamic separators; and
      (19)   Other measures reviewed and accepted by the county are also
appropriate sediment control practices.
   (J)   A Drainage Plan, including the following information:
      (1)   An estimate of the peak discharge, based on the ten-year storm
event, of the project site for both pre-construction and post-construction
conditions;
      (2)   Calculation showing that the peak runoff rate post-development for
the ten-year and 100-year return period storms of critical duration will not
exceed the two-year and ten-year return period pre-development peak runoff
rates, respectively;
      (3)   Location, size, and dimensions of all stormwater drainage systems,
such as culverts, storm sewers, and conveyance channels;
      (4)   Locations where stormwater may be directly discharged into
groundwater, such as abandoned wells or sinkholes (please note if none exist);
      (5)   Locations of specific points where stormwater discharge will leave
the project site;
      (6)   Name of all receiving waters (if the discharge is to a separate
municipal storm sewer, identify the name of the municipal operator and the
ultimate receiving water);
      (7)   Location, size, and dimensions of features, such as permanent
retention or detention facilities, including existing or human-made wetlands,
used for the purpose of stormwater management. Include existing retention or
detention facilities that will be maintained, enlarged, or otherwise altered,
and new ponds or basins to be built, and the basis of their design; and
      (8)   The estimated depth and amount of storage required by the design of
the new pond(s) or basin(s).
   (K)   A Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) for construction
activities must be designed to, at a minimum, meet the requirements of this
chapter, and must include the following:
      (1)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all temporary and permanent stormwater quality measures;
      (2)   Temporary stabilization plans and sequence of implementation;
      (3)   Permanent stabilization plans and sequence of implementation;
      (4)   Temporary and permanent stabilization plans shall include the
following:
         (a)   Specifications and application rates for soil amendments and
seed mixtures;
         (b)   The type and application rate for anchored mulch; and
         (c)   A construction sequence describing the relationship between
implementation of stormwater quality measures and stages of construction
activities.
      (5)   Anticipated inspection and maintenance requirements for permanent
and temporary measures. This shall include the expected frequency of routine
inspections and maintenance activities (such as removal of waste concrete).
   (L)   A description of potential pollutant sources associated with the
construction activities that may reasonably be expected to add a significant
amount of pollutants to stormwater discharges, including:
      (1)   Waste concrete management;
      (2)   Material delivery, handling, and storage;
      (3)   Sanitary septic waste management;
      (4)   Solid waste trash and debris management;
      (5)   Spill prevention control and countermeasures;
      (6)   Vehicle and equipment cleaning, fueling, and maintenance;
      (7)   Sensitive and vegetated area preservation; and
      (8)   Material delivery, handling, and storage associated with
construction activities shall meet the spill prevention and spill response
requirements of 327 I.A.C. 2-6.1.
   (M)   The SWPPP must include provisions for addressing the following issues
as applicable to the site-specific construction activities:
      (1)   De-watering operations;
      (2)   Contaminated soil management;
      (3)   Hazardous materials and waste management;
      (4)   Pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizer use;
      (5)   Collection system maintenance;
      (6)   Drainage system flushing;
      (7)   Over-water activities;
      (8)   A typical erosion and sediment control plan for individual lots;
and
      (9)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
   (N)   The State Department of Natural Resource’s guidance documents,
including the Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas (1985) or the
Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual, should be reviewed and considered when
preparing the Grading Plan and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan. The county
reserves the right to develop or adopt other guidance documents to serve as
design and implementation standards.
   (O)   Although no permit is required for individual lots disturbing less
than one acre within a larger permitted project, a formal stormwater review
will be required prior to the issuance of a building permit. All stormwater
management measures necessary to comply with this chapter must be implemented
in accordance with the permitted plan for the larger project.
      (1)   The information described must be submitted for review and
approval, prior to the issuance of a building permit for an individual lot,
regardless of size.
      (2)   A site location plan showing the individual lot and all adjacent
lots’ dimensions, elevations, drainage patterns, and swales.
      (3)   Individual lot plans must show how on-site stormwater will drain
onto adjacent parcels.
   (P)   An Erosion and Sediment Control Plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
      (1)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site access;
      (2)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion and
sediment control measures prior to land disturbance;
      (3)   Sediment discharge and tracking from each lot must be minimized
throughout the land- disturbing activities on the lot until permanent
stabilization has been achieved;
      (4)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto roads.
Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with water.
Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that complies
with all applicable statutes and rules;
      (5)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization;
      (6)   Self-monitoring program, including a plan and procedures; and
      (7)   Certification of compliance stating that the individual lot plan is
consistent with the stormwater management permit approved by the county for the
larger project.
   (Q)   The individual lot operator is responsible for the installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
   (R)   Stormwater quality management permit (SWQMP) termination.
      (1)   The project site owner shall plan an orderly and timely termination
of the construction activities, including the implementation of stormwater
quality measures that are to remain on the project site. The project site owner
shall submit a notice of termination (NOT) letter to the county and IDEM in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   All land-disturbing activities, including construction on all
building lots, have been completed and the entire site has been stabilized;
         (b)   All temporary erosion and sediment control measures have been
removed;
         (c)   The NOT letter must contain a verified statement that each of
the conditions in this section has been met; and
         (d)   The project site owner may submit an NOI letter to obtain early
release from compliance with this chapter, if the following conditions are met:
            1.   The remaining, undeveloped acreage does not exceed five acres,
with contiguous areas not to exceed one acre;
            2.   A map of the project site, clearly identifying all remaining
undeveloped lots, is attached to the NOT letter. The map must be accompanied by
a list of names and addresses of individual lot owners or individual lot
operators of all undeveloped lots;
            3.   All public and common improvements, including infrastructure,
have been completed and permanently stabilized and have been transferred to the
appropriate local entity;
            4.   The remaining acreage does not pose a significant threat to
the integrity of the infrastructure, adjacent properties, or water quality; and
            5.   All permanent stormwater quality measures have been
implemented and are operational.
      (2)   Following acceptance of the NOT letter, the project site owner
shall notify all current individual lot owners and all subsequent individual
lot owners of the remaining undeveloped acreage and acreage with construction
activity that they are responsible for complying with this section.
      (3)   The remaining individual lot owners do not need to submit an NOI
letter. The notice must inform the individual lot owners of the requirements
to:
         (a)   Install and maintain appropriate measures to prevent sediment
from leaving the individual building lot; and
         (b)   Maintain all erosion and sediment control measures that are to
remain on-site as part of the construction plan.
      (4)   The SWCD, DNR-DSC, other entity designated by a department or a
regulated MS4 entity, or the department may inspect the project site to
evaluate the adequacy of the remaining stormwater duality measures and
compliance with the NOT letter requirements. If the inspecting entity finds
that the project site owner has sufficiently filed an NOT letter, the entity
shall forward notification to the department. Upon receipt of the verified NOT
letter by the department and receipt of written approval from the department,
the project site owner shall no longer be responsible for compliance with this
rule.
      (5)   After a verified NOT letter has been submitted for a project site,
maintenance of the remaining stormwater quality measures shall be the
responsibility of the individual lot owner or occupier of the property.
   (S)   A stormwater quality management permit shall be considered open and
active until a time when the county accepts the site conditions and as-built
requirements have been completed.
   (T)   Acceptance of site conditions shall be made by the county based upon
an inspection. If any of the following items are deemed to be insufficient, not
appropriate, and/or inconsistent with the Grading Plan, Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan, or objectives stated in this section, the approval will not be
granted:
      (1)   Pipes, channels, catch basins, water quality treatment devices, and
other infrastructure are clear of sediment, obstructions, and debris, and are
designed and operating as appropriate for final site conditions;
      (2)   Slopes are permanently stabilized;
      (3)   Temporary erosion prevention or sediment control devices (such as
silt fences and staking, outlet protection, and the like) have been removed (as
appropriate) and any resulting soil disturbance stabilized;
      (4)   Temporary pollution prevention practices have been demobilized or
removed and affected areas stabilized;
      (5)   Sediment has been removed and slopes stabilized for permanent flood
control and water quality control practices;
      (6)   Detention pond grading is stabilized and/or excess sediment removed
so that actual volume is at least equal to designed volume and condition; and/
or
      (7)   Other items, as deemed to be important by the county.
   (U)   As-built requirements are as follows.
      (1)   Prior to issuance of a use and occupancy permit or final release of
bond, the as-built condition of critical stormwater management facilities must
be reviewed and approved.
      (2)   (a)   The volume, capacity, slope, configuration, condition, “as-
planted” plans, and topographic information, as well as all pipe size,
materials, and lengths for all detention, retention, and water quality
practices shall be certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state.
         (b)   This information shall be provided to the county in the form of
an as-built drawing or other electronic form accepted/required by the county.
The as-built certification shall indicate if final conditions are consistent
with, or exceed, the stormwater quality management permit provisions.
      (3)   If it is determined that information provided in the as-built
drawing, certification, inspection, or survey of the site do not meet or exceed
the stormwater quality management permit requirements, the county reserves the
right to withhold certification of occupancy or final bond. Furthermore, other
enforcement mechanisms, as identified within this chapter, may be applied to
the person certifying the as-built information.
      (4)   If, upon inspection by the county, it is determined that there is
an item that must be addressed to receive acceptance of site conditions, then
the person shall be required to continue inspections and maintenance, as
described in the stormwater quality management permit.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.009  INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Permittee-performed inspections and maintenance.
      (1)   Permittee-performed inspections (self inspections) must be
performed by a qualified professional;
      (2)   Inspections shall be performed at all control measures every seven
days and within 24 hours of a one-half inch rain event. The inspactions will
determine the overall effectiveness of the Grading and Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plans, needed maintenance activities, and the need for additional
control measures;
      (3)   All inspections shall be documented in written form and made
available to the county, or submitted at the time interval specified in the
approved permit;
      (4)   Inspections shall be performed consistent with specific visual
maintenance checklists approved by the county;
      (5)   Documentation of permittee-performed inspections and inspection
findings shall be kept on site, if appropriate facilities (such as a project
trailer or building) are available. In the event that appropriate facilities
are not available, a copy of the most recent inspection shall be displayed at
the site, along with other documents that must be displayed to the public per
other local, state, and federal regulations;
      (6)   Documentation of permittee-performed inspections and inspection
findings shall be made available within three days of a request by the county.
Failure to post or timely submit documentation as requested will be assumed to
indicate that inspections were not performed and may result in corresponding
enforcement procedures. Inspection documentation shall include, but shall not
be limited to, the following:
         (a)   The address of the site;
         (b)   The parcel identification number;
         (c)   The name of the owner or owner’s agent;
         (d)   The location of the stormwater system(s);
         (e)   The name and signature of the qualified professional inspector
performing the inspection and the date of the inspection; and
         (f)   The qualified professional inspector is responsible for the
reporting of the results of the inspection to the site owner or owner’s
representative including stormwater quality management system maintenance
needs.
      (7)   A description of the current operational or functional status of
the stormwater system(s). For sediment control structures, an indication of
used and remaining capacity (fraction, percentage, depth, or volume) shall be
given to identify when the control must be cleaned out;
      (8)   Identification of any necessary repairs or sediment debris removal
or replacement of all, or portions of, the stormwater system(s);
      (9)   The results of any field or laboratory analyses performed;
      (10)   Other relevant or unusual observations related to the system(s);
      (11)   Action plan to prevent premature stormwater system failure, as
consistent with the stormwater quality management permit provisions; and
      (12)   Action plan to prevent the premature system failure that exceeds
the stormwater quality management permit provisions, but is necessary to
prevent stormwater pollution from leaving the site.
   (B)   Oversight inspections.
      (1)   The county shall have the authority to periodically inspect the
site of land-disturbing activities for which permits have been issued; may make
inspections of the site at its discretion; and shall either approve the portion
of the work completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to
comply with the Grading or Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans, as approved
or is ineffective (regardless of consistency with an approved Grading Plan).
      (2)   The results of the inspections and findings will be presented and
reviewed with the permittee at the time of inspection (as available to site
personnel), and be available in the permit file within seven days.
      (3)   In order to obtain inspections, the permittee shall contact the
county at least two working days before the following activities:
         (a)   Bond release inspections; and
         (b)   Upon completion of the project in order to receive approval to
cease permittee inspections in compliance with the stormwater quality
management permit.
      (4)   The county may identify any repairs, sediment/debris removal or
replacement of all, or portions of, the stormwater system(s) necessary to
comply with the objectives of this chapter and the stormwater quality
management permit. The county may develop and require the implementation of an
action plan and compliance schedule that prevents the premature stormwater
quality management system failure, as consistent with the stormwater quality
management permit provisions.
      (5)   The county may develop and require the implementation of an action
plan to prevent the premature system failure that exceeds the stormwater
quality management permit provisions, but is necessary to prevent stormwater
pollution from leaving the site.
   (C)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Maintenance must be performed under the direction and/or
supervision of a qualified professional inspector.
      (2)   Maintenance of erosion prevention, sediment control, and pollution
prevention practices shall be performed according to the Grading and Pollution
Prevention Plans.
      (3)   Maintenance activities shall be performed in accordance with action
plans developed through the course of permittee-performed inspections. This may
represent activities that exceed provisions of the Grading and Pollution
Prevention Plans, but are necessary to prevent stormwater pollution from
leaving the site.
   (D)   Qualified professional registration and certification.
      (1)   A qualified professional is required to perform routine inspections
and direct and/or supervise maintenance activities to ensure that the
stormwater quality management permit provisions are being implemented properly.
      (2)   (a)   All qualified professionals performing inspections or
overseeing maintenance activities under this section must be registered with
the county and certified prior to execution of those actions.
         (b)   All applicants must file an application with the county.
         (c)   Applicants must demonstrate knowledge of construction practices,
operational standards, cause and failure indicators, and maintenance measures
used to prevent and correct failures.
      (3)   The county reserves the right to require that qualified
professional applicants pay a registration fee.
      (4)   The county reserves the right to require that qualified
professional applicants satisfactorily complete an approved training course.
      (5)   The county reserves the right to require that qualified
professional applicants be re-certified as often as every three years.
      (6)   The county reserves the right to require that qualified
professional applicants successfully pass a written exam covering construction
practices, operational standards, causes and indicators of stormwater quality
management system failures, and corrective actions as approved by the county.
      (7)   The county may de-certify any qualified professional under one or
more of the following circumstances:
         (a)   The individual fails to comply with this chapter;
         (b)   The county determines that the individual is not qualified to
perform his or her duties hereunder;
         (c)   The individual is unable to properly perform an evaluation of a
stormwater quality management system;
         (d)   The individual is negligent in the discharge of his or her
duties as outlined in the certification requirements;
         (e)   The individual submits false or misleading information; and
         (f)   The individual fails to maintain the required certification as
required by this chapter.
      (8)   The county shall give written notice to a qualified professional
inspector prior to revoking qualified inspector registration. The inspector
shall be given an opportunity at an informal meeting to show cause why he or
she should continue to be registered. Any qualified professional inspector may
appeal that decision by following the procedure set out in ordinance for
reinstatement.
      (9)   If a qualified professional inspector loses his or her
registration, he or she may apply to be re-instated contingent upon completing
the requirements established in this section after a period of at least one
year. The application to be re-instated shall not be permitted prior.
   (E)   County’s responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the county
to:
      (1)   Administer and enforce this character;
      (2)   Develop and administer a process for certifying qualified
professionals;
      (3)   Maintain a list of certified qualified professionals;
      (4)   Require corrective actions where there is evidence of a system
failure; and
      (5)   Establish criteria for the inspections and the certification of
qualified professionals and make such criteria and related forms available to
the public.
   (F)   Fees. The county reserves the right to require fees to cover expenses,
including, but not limited to: overhead; labor; storage; training; and the
like, associated with the certification, training, and inspection process. Fees
shall be paid prior to a certification training course and/or exam.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.010  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Provisions. The county may institute appropriate actions or
proceedings by law or equity for the enforcement of this chapter and shall, in
each instance, be entitled to recover its costs and attorney fees.
      (1)   Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the right to issue
restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, and other appropriate
forms of remedy or relief.
      (2)   Each day of noncompliance is considered a separate offense; and
nothing herein contained shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action as necessary to prevent or remedy any violation, including application
for injunctive relief.
      (3)   Any of the following enforcement remedies and penalties may be
applied independently, collectively, or in a sequence deemed necessary, and
shall be available to the county in response to violations of this chapter.
      (4)   If the person, property, or facility has, or is required to have, a
stormwater discharge permit from the IDEM, the county shall alert the
appropriate state authorities of the violation.
   (B)   Notice of violation (NOV). Whenever the county finds that any person
owning or occupying premises has violated, or is violating, this chapter or an
order issued hereunder, the enforcement official may serve such person,
personally, or by registered or certified mail, a written NOV. Within 30 days
of the receipt of this notice, or shorter period as may be prescribed in the
NOV, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction
and prevention thereof, which shall include specific required actions, shall be
submitted to the county. Submission of this plan shall not, however, affect
liability for violations of this chapter.
   (C)   Revocation of permit. The county may revoke and require the surrender
of a permit or certificate by notifying the permit holder, in writing, the
reason for the revocation. Permits or certificates shall be revoked for any
substantial departure from the approved application plans or specifications;
refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state or local law; or,
for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit or
certificate. Any permit or certificate mistakenly issued in violation of any
applicable state or local law may also be revoked.
   (D)   Stop work order. The county may issue a stop work order and require
that all activities cease, except those actions that are necessary to eliminate
the illicit discharge. Unacceptable or untimely actions to eliminate the
illicit discharge may be used as grounds to revoke permits for the construction
site as described in this chapter.
   (E)   Compliance order. If any person shall violate the provisions of this
chapter, the county may give notice to the owner, responsible party, or to any
person in possession of the subject property ordering that all unlawful
conditions existing thereupon be abated within a scheduled period defined from
the date of such notice.
   (F)   Enforcement official. The enforcement official shall have the
authority to establish elements of a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan and
require any business to adopt and implement such a plan as may be reasonably
necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. The enforcement official may
establish the requirements of BMPs for any premises.
   (G)   Danger to the public. If it is determined by the county that the
unlawful condition is such that there is an imminent danger or peril to the
public, then the county may, with or without notice, proceed to abate the same,
with the costs of such abatement being charged to the owner, responsible party,
or against the property.
   (H)   Civil penalties. Any person that has been found to have violated any
provision of this section may be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed the
lesser of the amount presented in §
152.999, or the maximum amount permitted by law.
      (1)   The penalty shall increase by 25% of the previous penalty amount
for every subsequent, but separate offense made by the same person. This
penalty shall be in addition to other enforcement actions of this section.
      (2)   The penalty may be assessed for each day that the prohibited
activity continues beyond those schedules set forth in compliance orders, or
other abatement schedules issued to the property owner or other person deemed
responsible by the county.
      (3)   In determining the amount of the penalty, the court shall consider
the following:
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to natural resources, the
public health, or public or private property resulting from the violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quality;
         (d)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The cumulative effect of other enforcement actions applied for
the same offense;
         (h)   The prior record of the violator in complying, or failing to
comply, with the stormwater quality management program; and
         (i)   The costs of enforcement to the county.
      (4)   Any violator may be required to clean and/or restore land to its
condition prior to the violation.
   (I)   Cost recovery. If corrective action, including maintenance
delinquency, is not taken in the time specified or within a reasonable time,
the county may undertake the corrective action, and the cost of the abatement
or corrective action shall be assessed against the responsible party, owner of
the premises, and/or the developer. If these costs are not paid within 90 days
of invoice, the enforcement official may initiate all appropriate legal actions
to enforce the claim.
   (J)   Injunctions and/or proceedings at law or in equity. Any violation of
this chapter, or of any condition, order, requirement, or remedy adopted
pursuant hereto, may be restrained, corrected, abated, mandated, or enjoined by
other appropriate proceeding pursuant to state law.
   (K)   Civil actions.
      (1)   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, any
violation of this chapter may be enforced by civil action brought by the
county. Monies recovered under this section shall be paid to the county to be
used exclusively for costs associated with implementing or enforcing the
provisions of this chapter. In any such action, the county may seek, as
appropriate, any, or all of, the following remedies:
         (a)   A temporary and/or permanent injunction;
         (b)   Assessment of the violator for the costs of any investigation,
inspection, or monitoring survey which lead to the establishment of the
violation, and for the reasonable costs of preparing and bringing legal action
under this section, to include reasonable attorney fees and costs of the
action;
         (c)   Costs incurred in removing, correcting, or terminating the
adverse effects resulting from the violation;
         (d)   Compensatory damages for loss or destruction to water quality,
wildlife, fish, and aquatic life; and
         (e)   The county may order the abatement of any discharge from any
source to the stormwater conveyance system when, in the opinion of the county,
the discharge causes or threatens to cause a condition that presents an
imminent danger to the public health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the
county, the environment, or is a violation of a NPDES permit. If such emergency
situations occur and the property owner or other responsible party is
unavailable, or time constraints are such that service of a notice and order to
abate cannot be effected without presenting an immediate danger to the public
health, safety, or welfare, the county may perform, or cause to be performed,
such work as shall be necessary to abate said threat or danger. The costs of
any such abatement may be recovered as stated in this chapter.
      (2)   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any
remedies available under any applicable federal, state, or local law, and the
county may seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.011  COMPATIBILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is inconsistent with any other, law,
regulation, statute, or ordinance; or results in the imposition of overlapping
or contradictory regulations; or if this chapter contains any restriction
covering any of the same subject matter of another law, regulation, statute, or
ordinance, the provision which is most restrictive or imposes the highest
standard or strictest requirement shall govern.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
STORMWATER ILLICIT DISCHARGE CONTROL
§ 152.025  JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall govern all properties and controlled activities within
the jurisdictional boundaries of unincorporated the county and all properties
that are served by City of New Albany Plan Commission under its two-mile fringe
authority.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.026  RECITALS.
   (A)   The community’s municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) receives
discharges that are not composed entirely of stormwater runoff, causing
increased non-point source pollution and receiving water degradation.
   (B)   Surface water runoff can carry pollutants into receiving waters, and
uncontrolled stormwater drainage and/or discharges may have significant adverse
impacts on the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the county. The
potential impacts of these pollutants and pollution may include:
      (1)   Adverse impacts to public health and safety, drinking water
supplies, recreation, fish, other aquatic life, property values, and other land
and water uses;
      (2)   Changing natural ecosystems through the destruction of habitat and
the loss of plant and animal life; posing significant health risks through an
increase in bacteria and toxic materials;
      (3)   Accelerating eutrophication of receiving waters by introducing
excessive nutrients;
      (4)   Increasing metal deposits, creating toxicity for aquatic life;
      (5)   Reducing in-stream oxygen levels because of oil, grease, and
organic matter; and
      (6)   Affecting animal and plant life, adversely, due to changing
temperatures of receiving waters.
   (C)   The adverse water quality consequences described above may result in
substantial economic losses. Potential losses include, but are not limited to:
increased drinking water and wastewater treatment costs and diminished property
values; as well as state and federal fines associated with water quality
violations.
   (D)   Every parcel of property, both private and public, either uses, or
benefits from, the county’s stormwater system.
   (E)   Current and anticipated growth will contribute to, and increase the
need for, an effective stormwater system.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.027  OBJECTIVES.
   Protection of short-term and long-term public health, safety, and general
welfare will be achieved by:
   (A)   Providing for regulation and management of the county’s stormwater
system, including public and private facilities within the county’s service
area;
   (B)   Protecting and preserving water quality and fish and wildlife habitat
within the county and in downstream receiving waters;
   (C)   Protecting those downstream from stormwater quality impairment(s);
   (D)   Compliance with state and federal stormwater regulations developed
pursuant to the Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq. (Pub. Law No. 92-500), and subsequent amendments through 2004. The
objectives of these regulations include:
      (1)   Controlling the quality of water discharged by controlling the
contribution of pollutants to the stormwater system by stormwater discharges
associated with residential, commercial, and industrial activity;
      (2)   Prohibiting illicit discharges to stormwater; and
      (3)   Controlling the discharge of spills and dumping, or any disposal of
materials other than stormwater into the stormwater system.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.028  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE. A discharge or release prohibited by this chapter
which occurs by chance and without planning for, or thought prior to,
occurrence.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbance activities subject to state HPDES
general construction permits related to “Rule 13” or “Rule 5” or local permits.
Such activities include, but are not limited to: clearing and grubbing;
grading; excavating; and demolition.
   COUNTY. Includes the county, acting through its duly appointed, qualified,
and acting advisory Plan Commission, together with the officers, employees,
attorneys, and designees of said Commission.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a municipal separate storm sewer system
(MS4) or any discharge directly or indirectly into waters of the state that is
not composed entirely of stormwater, except discharges pursuant to a national
pollutant discharge elimination system permit (other than the county’s NPDES
stormwater permit), or otherwise defined by this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). Any facility designed, or used
for, collecting and/or conveying stormwater, including, but not limited to: any
roads with drainage systems; highways; streets; curbs; gutters; inlets; catch
basins; piped storm drains; pumping facilities; structural stormwater controls;
ditches; swales; natural and human-made or altered drainage channels,
reservoirs; and other drainage structures; and which is:
      (1)   Owned or maintained by the county;
      (2)   Not a combined sewer; and
      (3)   Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management
(IDEM) under delegated authority by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (USEPA), whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or
general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drainage system that
is not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Except to the extent exempted from this chapter, any individual,
partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation,
trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility,
cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any
interstate body, or any other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT. Anything of a chemical component or nature which causes, or
contributes to, pollution.
   POLLUTION. The contamination or other alteration of any water’s physical,
chemical, or biological properties by the addition of any constituent.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The person causing or permitting a prohibited discharge
in violation of this chapter, or the person in control of, or having the right
to control, the property or premises from which a prohibited discharge has
occurred.
   STANDARD OF PRACTICE FOR RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
      (1)   A document that defines the management practices for erosion
prevention, sediment control, and other construction site waste management by
which homebuilders may use as guidance and minimum expectations to be achieved
during inspections by the county.
      (2)   In the event that this document is not published, then the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual (1985) or the Indiana Handbook for Erosion and
Sediment Control in Urban Areas developed by Indiana Department of Natural
Resources (IDNR) may be used as an equivalent guide.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF OR STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage
consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and
resulting from such precipitation.
   STRUCTURAL STORMWATER CONTROL OR BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). A
structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater
runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not
limited to: the quantity and quality; the period of release; or the velocity of
flow.
   UNDILUTED DISCHARGES. A discharge that has not been mixed with that of
another source such as another septic tank.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes,
reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of
surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within, or forming a
part of, the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and
retained completely upon the property of a single person.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.029  AUTHORITY; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The county shall have right-of-entry on, or upon, the property of any
person subject to this chapter and any permit document issued hereunder. The
county shall be provided ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, monitoring, sampling, inventory, records examination
and copying, and the performance of any other duties necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Where a property, site, or facility has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry, the responsible
party shall make necessary arrangements with its security personnel so that,
upon presentation of suitable identification, the county will be permitted to
enter without delay.
   (C)   Access by the county shall include the right to erect upon the
property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of
stormwater operations or discharges.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
areas to be inspected and/or monitored shall be removed promptly upon request
of, and at no cost to, the county.
   (E)   (1)   The county may inspect the facilities of any person in order to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Except in an emergency relating directly to the health, safety, and
welfare of the public, an inspection shall be made only after reasonable (48
hours) notice to, and consent by, the responsible party. However, if such
consent is refused, denied, or not promptly tendered, the county may seek
appropriate judicial orders permitting such entry.
   (F)   The county has the right to determine and impose inspection schedules
necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter. Inspections may include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   An initial inspection prior to stormwater management plan approval;
      (2)   An inspection prior to burial of any underground drainage
structure;
      (3)   Erosion control inspections as necessary to ensure effective
control of sediment prior to discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer
system;
      (4)   A final inspection when all work, including installation of
stormwater management facilities, has been completed; and
      (5)   An inspection to determine the effectiveness or operational
viability of a permanent or long-term stormwater quality management practice.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.030  ILLICIT DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. Pursuant to the national pollutant
discharge elimination system municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4)
program, illicit discharges to the MS4 are defined as illegal.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, all non-stormwater discharges into
the MS4 are prohibited and declared to be unlawful.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to connect any pipe, open channel, or
any other conveyance system that discharges into the MS4 anything except
stormwater, or unpolluted water, or such other substance which is approved by
the county.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge waters from residential
construction activities that are not in compliance with the Standard of
Practice for Residential Construction Stormwater Management, as approved by the
county.
      (4)   In addition to illicit discharges, the discharge of spills and the
dumping and/or disposal of materials other than stormwater including, but not
limited to: industrial and commercial wastes; commercial car wash wastes;
sewage; garbage; yard waste; trash; petroleum products (including used motor
vehicle fluids); leaf litter; grass clippings; and animal wastes, into the MS4,
whether directly or indirectly, is prohibited, unless authorized under a NPDES
permit.
   (B)   Allowable discharges. Unless the county has identified a discharge as
an unacceptable source of pollutants to the Waters of the State, the following
non-stormwater discharges into the MS4 are lawful:
      (1)   Discharges from emergency firefighting activities;
      (2)   Diverted stream flows;
      (3)   Rising groundwaters;
      (4)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration to separate storm sewer
systems (as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 35.2005(b)(20));
      (5)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
      (6)   Discharges from potable water sources as required for system
maintenance;
      (7)   Air conditioning condensate;
      (8)   Uncontaminated landscape irrigation;
      (9)   Uncontaminated irrigation water;
      (10)   Lawn watering;
      (11)   Uncontaminated springs;
      (12)   Uncontaminated water from crawl space pumps;
      (13)   Uncontaminated water from footing drains and pumps;
      (14)   Individual residential car washing;
      (15)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (16)   De-chlorinated swimming pool discharges;
      (17)   Controlled flushing stormwater conveyances (contained and treated
by appropriate BMPs);
      (18)   Discharges made from residential construction sites fully and
completely utilizing guidance provided by Standard of Practice for Residential
Construction Stormwater Management;
      (19)   Discharges within the constraints of a national pollutant
discharges elimination system (NPDES) permit from the Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM); and
      (20)   Discharges approved at the discretion of the county.
   (C)   Illegal discharges. It shall be unlawful for any person to improperly
dispose of any contaminant into the MS4. Contaminants include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Trash or debris;
      (2)   Construction materials or uncontrolled sediment;
      (3)   Petroleum products including, but not limited to: oil; gasoline;
grease; fuel oil; or hydraulic fluids;
      (4)   Antifreeze and other automotive products;
      (5)   Metals in either particulate or dissolved form;
      (6)   Flammable or explosive materials;
      (7)   Radioactive materials;
      (8)   Batteries, including, but not limited to: lead acid automobile
batteries; alkaline batteries; lithium batteries or mercury batteries;
      (9)   Acids, alkalis or bases;
      (10)   Paints, stains, resins, lacquers, or varnishes;
      (11)   Degreasers and/or solvents;
      (12)   Drain cleaners;
      (13)   Pesticides, herbicides, or fertilizers;
      (14)   Steam cleaning wastes;
      (15)   Soaps, detergents, or ammonia;
      (16)   Swimming pool backwash including chlorinated swimming pool
discharge;
      (17)   Chlorine, bromine, and other disinfectants;
      (18)   Heated water;
      (19)   Animal waste, either from domestic animals or from feeder lot
operations;
      (20)   Leakage from sanitary sewers and connections that have remained
uncorrected for more than seven days;
      (21)   Recreational vehicle waste;
      (22)   Animal carcasses;
      (23)   Food wastes;
      (24)   Medical wastes;
      (25)   Bark and other fibrous materials;
      (26)   Collected lawn clippings leaves or branches;
      (27)   Silt, sediment, or gravel;
      (28)   Dyes, except with permission from the county;
      (29)   Chemicals not normally found in uncontaminated water;
      (30)   Water from fresh concrete or water used for cleaning, finishing,
and/or to expose aggregates;
      (31)   Junk motor vehicles;
      (32)   Leakage from solid waste disposal containers;
      (33)   Sewage or sewage sludge;
      (34)   Any polluted household wastewater, such as, but not limited to,
laundry wash water and dishwater, except that water discharged to a sanitary
sewer or septic system;
      (35)   Leakage from water lines that has remained uncorrected for seven
days or more;
      (36)   Commercial, industrial, or public vehicle wash discharge;
      (37)   Garbage or sanitary waste;
      (38)   Dead animals or animal fecal waste;
      (39)   Dredged or spoil material;
      (40)   Wrecked or discarded vehicles or equipment;
      (41)   Wash waters to the storm drain system from the cleaning of gas
stations, auto repair garages, or other types of auto repair facilities;
      (42)   Wastewater to the storm drain system from mobile auto washing,
steam cleaning, mobile carpet cleaning and other such mobile commercial, and
industrial operations;
      (43)   Waters from areas devoted to the repair of machinery and
equipment, including motor vehicles, which are visibly leaking oil, fluids, or
coolants;
      (44)   Waters from storage areas for materials containing grease, oil,
hazardous materials (or uncovered receptacles containing hazardous materials),
grease, or oil;
      (45)   Toxic materials from paved or unpaved areas;
      (46)   Discharge into the storm drain system from the washing or rinsing
of restaurant mats, roof vents, grease traps, equipment, garbage bins, or cans;
      (47)   Sewage, industrial wastes (or other wastes, if discharged into a
well or a location that is likely that the discharged substance will move into
a well), or the underground placement of fluids and other substances which do
or may affect the waters of the state; and
      (48)   Any hazardous material or waste not listed above.
   (D)   De minimis charges. It is not the intent of the county, by this
chapter, to propose penalties for de minimis discharges that have no
significant adverse impact on the safety, health, and the welfare of the
environment or the functionality of the stormwater drainage/collection system,
and to this end, such de minimis discharges are expressly exempted from the
application of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.031  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person responsible for any connection to the MS4 which
results in a prohibited discharge shall immediately cause such illegal
connection to be discontinued and redirected, if necessary, to an approved
sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Such person shall provide the county with written confirmation, in
a form satisfactory to county, that the connection has been discontinued, and,
if necessary, redirected to the sanitary sewer.
   (B)   (1)   Any person responsible for illicit discharges or noncompliance
with BMPs at industrial and/or construction sites, and who fails to correct any
prohibited condition or discontinue any prohibited activity at the order of the
county, shall be liable to the county for expenses incurred in abating
pollution.
      (2)   Such expenses may include those incurred in testing, measuring,
sampling, collecting, removing, treating, and disposing of the polluting
materials, and preventing further noncompliance and/or illicit discharges.
   (C)   The county may institute appropriate actions or proceedings at law or
in equity for the enforcement of this chapter, and the county shall be entitled
to recover its costs expended and reasonable attorney fees in any such
proceeding. Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the right to issue
restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, and other appropriate
forms of remedy or relief.
      (1)   Each day of noncompliance is considered a separate offense and
nothing herein contained shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action as necessary to prevent or remedy any violation, including application
for injunctive relief.
      (2)   Any of the following enforcement remedies and penalties, to be
applied independently or in a sequence as deemed necessary, shall be available
to the county in response to violations of this chapter. If the person,
property, or facility has, or is required to have, a stormwater discharge
permit from the IDEM, the county shall notify the appropriate state authorities
of the violation.
         (a)   Whenever the county finds that any person owning or occupying
premises has violated, or is violating, this chapter, or an order issued
hereunder, the enforcement official may serve, by personal service, registered
mail, or certified mail, upon said person a written NOV. Within 30 days of the
receipt of this notice, or shorter period as may be prescribed in the NOV, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, which shall include specific required actions, shall be
submitted to the county. Submission of this plan shall not, however, affect
liability for violations of this chapter.
         (b)   The county may revoke and require surrender of a permit or
certificate by notifying the permit holder, in writing, of the reason for the
revocation. Permits or certificates may be revoked for any substantial
departure from the approved application plans or specifications; refusal or
failure to comply with the requirements of state or local law; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit or certificate.
Any permit or certificate mistakenly issued in violation of any applicable
state or local law may also be revoked.
         (c)   The county may issue a stop work order and require that all
activities cease, except those actions that are necessary to eliminate the
illicit discharge. Unacceptable or untimely actions to eliminate the illicit
discharge may be used as grounds to revoke permits for the construction site.
         (d)   If any person shall violate the provisions of this chapter, the
county may order the owner, responsible party, or any person in possession of
the subject property that all unlawful conditions existing thereupon be abated
within a scheduled period defined from the date of such notice.
            1.   The enforcement official shall have the authority to establish
elements of a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan and require any business to
adopt and implement such a plan as may be reasonably necessary to fulfill the
purposes of this chapter. The enforcement official may establish the
requirements of BMPs for any premises.
            2.   If it is determined by the county that an unlawful condition
is such that there is imminent danger or peril to the public health, safety, or
welfare, the county may, with or without notice, proceed to abate the same,
with the costs of such abatement to be charged against the property, its owner,
or the responsible party, jointly and severally.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who has been found to have violated any provision of
this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed the amount the
lessor of that set forth in this section or §
152.999, or the maximum amount permitted by law.
      (2)   The penalty shall increase by 25% of the previous penalty amount
for every subsequent, but separate, offense made by the same person. This
penalty shall be in addition to other enforcement actions of this section. The
penalty may be assessed for each day that the prohibited activity continues
beyond those schedules set forth in compliance orders or other abatement
schedules issued to the property owner or other person responsible by the
county.
      (3)   In determining the amount of the penalty, the court shall consider
the following:
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to the public or private property resulting from the
violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quality;
         (d)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The cumulative effect of other enforcement actions applied for
the same offense;
         (h)   The prior record of the violator in complying, or failing to
comply, with the stormwater quality management program; and
         (i)   The cost of enforcement to the county.
   (E)   Any violator may be required to clean and/or restore land to its
condition prior to the violation.
   (F)   (1)   If corrective action, including required maintenance, is not
completed in the time specified, or within a reasonable time, the county may
take the corrective action, and the cost of abatement or corrective action may
be assessed against the responsible party, owner of the premises, and/or the
developer.
      (2)   If these costs are not paid within 90 days of invoice, the
enforcement official may initiate all appropriate legal actions to enforce the
claim.
   (G)   Any violation of this chapter, or of any condition, order,
requirement, or remedy adopted pursuant hereto, may be restrained, corrected,
abated, mandated, or enjoined by other appropriate proceeding pursuant to state
law.
   (H)   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, any
violation of this chapter may be enforced by civil action brought by the
county. Monies recovered under this section shall be paid to the county to be
used exclusively for costs associated with implementing or enforcing the
provisions of this chapter. In any such action, the county may seek, as
appropriate, any, or all of, the following remedies:
      (1)   A temporary and/or permanent injunction;
      (2)   Assessment of the violator for the costs of any investigation,
inspection, or monitoring survey which lead to the establishment of the
violation, and for the reasonable costs of preparing and bringing legal action
under this section;
      (3)   Costs incurred in removing, correcting, or terminating the adverse
effects resulting from the violation; and/or
      (4)   Compensatory damages for loss or destruction to water quality,
wildlife, fish, and aquatic life.
   (I)   (1)   The county may order the abatement of any discharge from any
source to the stormwater conveyance system when, in the opinion of the county,
the discharge causes, or threatens to cause, a condition that presents an
imminent danger to the public health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the
county, the environment, or is a violation of a NPDES permit.
      (2)   If such emergency situations occur, and the property owner, or
other responsible party, is unavailable, or time constraints are such that
service of a notice and order to abate cannot be effected without presenting an
immediate danger to the public health, safety, or welfare, the county may
undertake the abatement of said threat or danger. The costs of any such action
by the county may be recovered as in this chapter.
   (J)   Any condition caused by, or permitted to exist in, violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter is deemed a threat to the public health, safety,
welfare, and environment, and is declared to be a  nuisance, which may be
abated by injunctive or other equitable relief.
   (K)   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law, and the county may
seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.032  COMPATIBILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is inconsistent with any other, law,
regulation, statute, or ordinance; or results in the imposition of overlapping
or contradictory regulations; or if this chapter contains any restriction
covering any of the same subject matter of another law, regulation, statute, or
ordinance, the provision which is most restrictive, or imposes the highest
standard or strictest requirement, shall govern.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 152.045  APPLICABILITY.
   All new development and redevelopment activities that result in the
disturbance of one or more acres of land within the county, including land-
disturbing activities on individual lots of less than one acre as part of a
larger common plan of development of sale, shall develop a post-construction
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) which includes provisions
necessary for minimizing the impacts of pollutants from the proposed land use.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.046  POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP).
   (A)   A stormwater quality management permit may only be issued after the
review and acceptance of a post-construction SWPPP. The post-construction SWPPP
is part of the Stormwater Quality Management Plan (SWQMP) and must include, but
not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   A description of potential pollutant sources from the proposed land
use that may reasonably be expected to add an amount of pollutants to
stormwater discharges;
      (2)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all post-construction stormwater quality best management practices
(BMPs);
      (3)   A description of BMPs that will be installed to control pollutants
in stormwater discharges that will occur after construction activities have
been completed. Such practices include: infiltration of run-off; flow reduction
by use of open vegetated swales and natural depressions; buffer strips and
riparian zone preservation; filter strip creation; minimization of land
disturbance and surface imperviousness; maximization of open space; and
stormwater retention and detention ponds;
      (4)   A sequence describing when each post-construction stormwater
quality BMP will be installed;
      (5)   Stormwater quality BMPs that will remove or minimize pollutants
from stormwater runoff;
      (6)   Stormwater BMPs that will be implemented to prevent or minimize
adverse impact to stream and riparian habitat; and
      (7)   A narrative description of the maintenance guidelines for all post-
construction stormwater quality measures to facilitate their proper long-term
function. This narrative description shall be made available to future parties
who will assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the post-
construction stormwater quality measures.
   (B)   The SWPPP shall include provisions for buffers.
      (1)   The no-disturbance buffer will be used to define areas where land
disturbance activities shall not be permitted. Grading, clearing, and grubbing
shall not be permitted in this area, but pruning, trimming, and partial removal
of standing vegetation is permitted.
         (a)   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be defined as 25 feet
from the top of the waterway bank as defined by geomorphic shape (not by the
current water surface elevation).
         (b)   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be applied to all
waterways and drainage systems that drain more than 25 acres of contributing
area or are represented on a United States geological survey map as a blue line
stream.
      (2)   The waterway buffer will be used to define areas where land
disturbance activities shall be permitted, but construction of any building or
structure shall not be permitted.
         (a)   A waterway buffer shall be applied to all waterways serving more
than 25 acres of tributary area, or those represented on a United States
geological survey map as a blue line stream.
         (b)   Automatic exemptions may be applied for the following (provided
erosion prevention and sediment control, water quality, and cut-fill policies
are adequately addressed):
            1.   Roads and utilities crossing waterways; and
            2.   Pedestrian trails and walkways proximate to waterways.
         (c)   The waterway buffer shall be define as the area contained within
a boundary established 25 feet beyond the flood plain boundary, as defined by
FEMA, or 50 feet from top of waterway bank, as defined by geomorphic shape (not
by the current water surface elevation), whichever is larger.
         (d)   At a minimum, the waterway buffer shall be at least the width of
the no-disturbance buffer, if applicable.
         (e)   The waterway buffer and flood plain may be used for application
of water quality devices. This may only be permitted provided erosion
prevention and sediment control, water quality, and cut-fill policies are
adequately addressed, as determined by the county, according to the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.047  APPROVED STORMWATER BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS).
   (A)   The SWPPP shall include provisions for stormwater quality BMPs
functioning independently or in combination.
   (B)   Acceptable stormwater quality BMPs include:
      (1)   Vegetated buffers;
      (2)   Bio-retention swales;
      (3)   Vegetated and forested buffer strips;
      (4)   Level spreaders;
      (5)   Infiltration systems;
      (6)   Dry detention ponds;
      (7)   Wet detention ponds;
      (8)   Retention ponds;
      (9)   Constructed and pocket wetlands;
      (10)   Media filtration and screening systems;
      (11)   Baffle boxes and grit separators;
      (12)   Hydrodynamic separator systems;
      (13)   Sediment forebays;
      (14)   Oil/water separators; and
      (15)   Other measures reviewed and accepted by the county.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.048  BMP DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The SWPPP shall include provisions for stormwater quality BMPs that
are designed to achieve the following design/performance objectives:
      (1)   Reduce total suspended solids (TSS) from the first flush, as
defined by land use characteristics and contributing area; or capture and
treatment of at least one-half inch precipitation applied over the contributing
area;
      (2)   Reduction of stormwater runoff temperature caused by contact with
impervious surfaces;
      (3)   Stormwater detention/retention facilities shall be designed to
address the rate at which flow is released over the entire runoff discharge
period and the volume of discharge over the critical design-storm period. The
outlet structure shall be designed as a V-notch weir or other multiple stage
configurations capable of controlling the discharge rates for the two- year,
ten-year, and 100-year design-storm events; and
      (4)   The Indiana Drainage Handbook or the Indiana Stormwater Quality
Manual should be reviewed and considered when preparing the SWPPP.
   (B)   The county reserves the right to develop or adopt other guidance
documents to serve as design and implementation standards. Other guidance
documents distributed by the county should be reviewed and considered when
preparing the SWPPP. These documents may be applied as the standard by which
designs are to be prepared and controls implemented. The county shall have
authority to implement this chapter by appropriate regulations, guidance, or
other related materials. In this regard, technical, administrative, or
procedural matter may be modified as needed to meet objectives defined herein,
so long as such modifications as to technical, administrative, or procedural
matters are not contrary to, or beyond the intent of, the objectives defined
herein.
   (C)   Regulations, guidance, or other related materials that may be given
authority by this chapter may include, but are not limited to; best management
practice (BMP) manuals, design regulations and requirements, submission
checklists, review checklists, inspection checklists, certifications,
stormwater management manuals, and operation and maintenance manuals.
   (D)   Materials may include information deemed appropriate by the county,
including: guidance and specifications for the preparation of Grading Plans;
selecting environmentally-sound practices for managing stormwater; minimum
specifications and requirements; more complete definitions; and performance
standards.
   (E)   The above-referenced documents shall not, in any way, require
specific, commercially available products. However, they may refer to
performance specifications, class of devices, construction, or management
practices.
   (F)   The above-referenced documents may restrict or prevent the use of
specific products, techniques, or management practices (that are to be accepted
by the public, or are deemed to have a negative impact on public infrastructure
or the MS4) that have been identified as unacceptable for performance,
maintenance, or other technically-based reasons.
   (G)   (1)   Documents referenced above may be updated periodically to
reflect the most current and effective practices and shall be made available to
the public.
      (2)   However, the failure to update the manual shall not relieve any
applicant from the obligation to comply with this chapter, and shall not
prevent the county from imposing the most current and effective practices.
   (H)   Soil bioengineering, “green,” and other “soft” slope and stream bank
stabilization methods shall receive preference over riprap, concrete, and other
hard armoring techniques. “Hard” alternatives shall only be permitted when
their necessity can be demonstrated given site-specific conditions.
   (I)   Supportive data must be submitted to justify the type of facility
selected. If the facility is designed to retain (volume control) all, or a
significant portion of, runoff (as opposed to temporarily detain it), then
appropriate soils analyses shall be submitted to the county.
      (1)   This submission shall also discuss the impacts the facility will
have on local karst topography, as found through a geotechnicain investigation
of the site. The facility may be designed to infiltrate runoff to groundwater
rather than transmit it downstream under conditions up to a ten-year storm
event.
      (2)   It must be able to bypass all other storms up to a 100-year event
with a discharge rate equivalent to, or less than, pre-development conditions,
without negatively impacting the 100-flood plain above or below the site.
      (3)   If data indicates that the facility cannot retain a significant
portion of the runoff (95%), then the facility must be sized to detain runoff.
   (J)   Detention facilities may, and are encouraged to be, designed to serve
multiple purposes. For example, runoff may be detained under wet-weather
conditions in facilities that also serve as common or recreational areas during
dry-weather conditions.
      (1)   Where multi-purpose facilities are provided, or where flat grades
or poorly draining soils are encountered, provisions for adequate low-flow
stormwater management systems may be required.
      (2)   Where the retention/detention facility is planned to be used as a
lake, pond, or stormwater quality management practice with a permanent pool,
water budget calculations shall be performed and submitted to demonstrate that
an adequate pool is expected during dry summer months.
   (K)   A licensed professional engineer shall approve and sign all plans for
construction, to include all proposed improvements or modifications to existing
or new stormwater infrastructure, and other related improvements or
modifications.
   (L)   The county reserves the right to require superseding or additional
treatment criteria or objectives for specific pollutant(s), as necessary, to
meet overall stormwater quality management program objectives or directives
under a watershed improvement or total maximum daily load (TDML) program.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.049  BMP OWNERSHIP AND EASEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any stormwater management facility or BMP which services
individual property owners or subdivisions shall be privately owned.
      (2)   General routine maintenance (controlling vegetative growth and
removing debris) shall be provided by the owner(s).
      (3)   The owner(s) shall maintain a perpetual, non-exclusive easement
that allows access for inspection and emergency maintenance by the county. The
county has the right, but not the duty, to enter premises for emergency
repairs.
   (B)   (1)   Any stormwater management facility or BMP which services an
individual subdivision in which the facility or BMP is within designated open
areas or an amenity with an established homeowners association shall be
privately owned and maintained by the owner consistent with provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   The owner shall maintain a perpetual, non-exclusive easement which
allows for access for inspection and emergency maintenance by the county. The
county has the right, but not the duty, to enter premises for emergency
repairs.
   (C)   If a homeowners association was never developed or it has been
dissolved, each individual homeowner is not released of his or her
responsibility for the maintenance of the stormwater facility that serves the
neighborhood. As a collective, the property owners within the subdivision may
be assessed the expense to maintain and/or repair the stormwater facility, if
necessary.
   (D)   Any stormwater management facility or BMP which services commercial
and industrial developments shall be privately owned and maintained. The owner
shall maintain a perpetual, non-exclusive easement which allows for access for
inspection and emergency maintenance by the county. The county has the right,
but not the duty, to enter premises for emergency repairs.
   (E)   The county may inspect a privately owned stormwater management
facility or BMP via the perpetual, non-exclusive easement. If a stormwater
management facility or BMP is inaccessible, the county will provide the owner
with a notice requesting access to the site within seven days.
   (F)   All regional stormwater management control facilities proposed by the
owner(s), if approved and accepted by the county, shall, upon dedication as a
public regional facility, be publicly owned and/or maintained.
   (G)   All other stormwater management control facilities and BMPs shall be
privately owned and/or maintained, unless accepted for maintenance by the
county.
   (H)   The county may require dedication of privately owned stormwater
facilities which discharge to the county’s stormwater system.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.050  COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL BMPS.
   (A)   All property owners are expected to implement adequate on-site
stormwater quality control measures, but the extent thereof may be reduced
given the availability, proximity, and nature of regional stormwater quality
BMPs.
   (B)   The extent and type of on-site stormwater quality management practices
implemented must be proportionate to the land use, pollutant discharge
potential, and proximity to regional stormwater quality management practices.
   (C)   For properties where stormwater quantity management practices are
either not feasible, or not necessary in lieu of regional stormwater quantity
controls, the county has the right to require on-site controls for stormwater
quality.
   (D)   (1)   The county encourages regional stormwater quantity and/or
quality management practices, serving 25 to 250 acres of tributary area, which
may be consistently and efficiently managed and maintained.
      (2)   These types of practices will be encouraged in order to replace or
reduce the implementation of on-site stormwater quantity and/or quality
management practices, as determined to be appropriate by the county.
   (E)   Where a regional stormwater management facility has been established
by one or more local governments, or by an authority operation on behalf of one
or more local governments, a development or property owner may participate in
said program in lieu of runoff control required by this chapter. This may be
permitted, provided that:
      (1)   Runoff from the development drains to an approved existing, or
proposed, public regional stormwater management facility that will be
operational within one year of commencement of development;
      (2)   The total value of such participation by contribution of funds,
contribution of land, contribution of stormwater management facility
construction work, or a combination of these, shall equal or exceed the
appropriate fee imposed, or to be imposed by, the county with respect to
alternative private controls;
      (3)   The county finds that the stormwater quality management plans are
in compliance with all other applicable requirements and ordinances;
      (4)   Each fiscal or in-kind contribution from a development owner
participating in a regional stormwater quality management facility shall be
used for acquisition, design, construction, or maintenance of one or more such
facilities in the same watershed in which the development is located; and
      (5)   Redevelopment of properties containing on-site stormwater quantity
management practices may be permitted, at the discretion of the county,
provided the subject property and downstream public and private properties,
infrastructure, or waters of the state are adequately protected by a regional
facility(s) from stormwater quantity or quality impacts.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.051  COORDINATION WITH MASTER PLANS AND WATERSHED STUDIES.
   (A)   If available, each SWPPP shall be evaluated for consistency with the
stormwater master plan or watershed study for the major watersheds within which
the project site is located.
      (1)   The individual project evaluation will determine if stormwater
quantity and quality management practices can adequately serve the property and
limit impacts to downstream public and private properties.
      (2)   The presence of a regional facility(s) will be considered in
determining the extent to which quantity and/or quality controls will be
necessary.
   (B)   Special design criteria or requirements may be applied to stormwater
quality BMPs based on the direction or results of Master Plans, watershed
studies, and/or total maximum daily load (TMDL) requirements.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.052  STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN PERMIT CLOSURE.
   (A)   A SWQMP shall be considered open and active until the time when the
county accepts the site conditions, as-built requirements have been completed,
and a long-term operation and maintenance agreement has been accepted.
   (B)   Acceptance of site conditions shall be made by the county through
inspection. If any of the following items are deemed to be insufficient, not
appropriate, and/or inconsistent with the SWPPP or objectives stated in this
chapter, then approval will not be granted:
      (1)   Pipes, channels, catch basins, water quality treatment devices, and
other infrastructure are clear of sediment, obstructions, and debris, and are
designed and operating as appropriate for final site conditions;
      (2)   Slopes are permanently stabilized;
      (3)   Temporary erosion prevention or sediment control devices (such as
silt fence and staking, outlet protection, and the like) have been removed, as
appropriate, and any resulting soil disturbance stabilized;
      (4)   Sediment has been removed and slopes stabilized for permanent flood
control and water quality control practices;
      (5)   Detention pond grading is stabilized and/or excess sediment removed
so that actual volume is at least equal to design volume and conditions; and
      (6)   Other items as deemed important by the county.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.053  AS-BUILT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a use and occupancy permit, or final release of
bond, the as-built condition, including invert elevations, size, shape, and
location of critical stormwater management features, must be identified and
approved.
   (B)   The volume, slopes, configuration, condition, and topographic
information of all detention, retention, and water quality practices shall be
certified by a licensed professional engineer. This information shall be
provided to the county in the form of an as-built drawing or other electronic
form accepted/required by the county. The as-built certification shall indicate
if final conditions are consistent with, or exceed, the SWQMP provisions.
   (C)   If it is determined that information provided in the as-built drawing,
certification, inspection, or survey of the site do not meet or exceed the
SWQMP provisions, the county reserves the right to withhold the certificate of
occupancy or release of final bond. Furthermore, other enforcement mechanisms,
as identified within this chapter, may be initiated to ensure compliance.
   (D)   If, upon inspection by the county or its designated representative(s),
it is determined that acceptance of site conditions is inappropriate by virtue
of deficiencies, the permittee shall continue inspections and maintenance, as
described in the SWQMP, pending such acceptance.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.054  LONG-TERM OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   A SWQMP may not be closed until a long-term operation and maintenance
agreement has been accepted by the county.
   (A)   Long-term operation and maintenance agreement. Long-term operation and
maintenance agreements shall include a maintenance plan for all stormwater
quality BMPs in new development or redevelopment that require more than general
maintenance (e.g., periodic mowing).
      (1)   The plan will be developed to ensure that the stormwater quality
BMPs are kept functional. The maintenance agreement will specify minimum
operation and maintenance requirements and intervals to be performed by the
property owner.
      (2)   The plan shall address schedules for inspections and techniques for
operation and maintenance, including: vegetation clearing or mowing; and
removing accumulated trash, debris, sediment pollutants, and other forms of
pollution.
      (3)   The agreement shall be noted on the final plat with the appropriate
notation on the particular lot(s).
      (4)   The agreement shall be recorded so as to be binding on the owner,
he, she, or its administrators, executors, assigns, heirs, and any other
successors in interest.
      (5)   A suggested format for the long-term operation and maintenance
agreement is included in Appendix A.
      (6)   Provisions shall be made to assure that water detention and
retention facilities do not become nuisances or health hazards. Detention and
retention facilities should be designed to require minimal maintenance, and
maintenance expectations must be clearly stated in a long-term operation and
maintenance agreement.
      (7)   When a stormwater quality BMP serves more than one parcel, an
owners association or binding contract for the purpose of operation and
maintenance is required. The owners association shall be responsible for
operation and maintenance, as directed by this chapter.
      (8)   The maintenance responsibilities for permanent stormwater quality
BMPs shall be determined based upon the type of ownership of the property which
is controlled by the facilities.
      (9)   Where the permanent stormwater runoff control facilities are
designed to manage runoff from property in single entity ownership, the
maintenance responsibility for the stormwater control facilities shall be with
the single entity owner.
         (a)   A single entity shall be defined as an association, public or
private corporation, partnership, firm, trust, estate, or any other legal
entity allowed to own real estate, exclusive of individual lot owner.
         (b)   The stated responsibilities of the entity shall be documented in
the form of a long-term operation and maintenance agreement terms, including
ownership, operation, and maintenance of the facilities, shall be submitted
with an application for a SWQMP, so as to permit a determination of adequacy.
Approval of a SWQMP shall be conditioned upon the approval of the agreement,
which shall be in writing and recordable form, and shall, in addition to any
other terms deemed necessary by the county, contain a provision permitting
inspection of all facilities at any reasonable time by the county.
         (c)   As a condition for approval of the stormwater quality BMPs by
the county, the facility owner(s) shall demonstrate the ability to guarantee
and apply the financial resources necessary for long-term maintenance
requirements. The county will accept a funding mechanism for long-term
maintenance responsibilities only if same can be demonstrated to be permanent
or transferable to another entity with equivalent longevity.
         (d)   In the event that proposed funding is through an owners
association, it must be demonstrated that the association may not be dissolved
unless long-term operation and maintenance activities are accepted by another
entity with equivalent longevity and adequate funding.
         (e)   Furthermore, the owners association’s responsibility must be
stated in the association’s declaration, covenants, or by-laws, as appropriate.
         (f)   Unless made specifically clear in the preliminary stages of the
site design and construction plan review procedure, it will be assumed that all
stormwater detention, retention, treatment, or storage facilities and/or
devices shall be owned, operated, and maintained by a single entity, as defined
above.
         (g)   If a homeowners association was never developed, or it has been
dissolved, each individual homeowner is not released of his or her
responsibility for the maintenance of the stormwater facility that serves the
neighborhood. As a collective, the property owners within the subdivision may
be assessed the expense to maintain and/or repair the stormwater facility, if
necessary.
   (B)   County ownership. Where the county has accepted an offer of dedication
of permanent stormwater quality BMPs, the county shall be responsible for
operation and maintenance.
   (C)   Maintenance bond. The county may require the posting of a maintenance
bond to secure the structural integrity of said facilities, as well as the
functioning of said facilities in accordance with the approved SWQMP for a term
of 18 months from the date of acceptance of dedication. The county may approve
a cash contribution in lieu of a maintenance bond; provided that the
contribution be approximately equivalent to the amount that would be estimated
for such bond.
   (D)   Claims against the county.
      (1)   In the event a claim is asserted against the county, its agents, or
employees for the construction, presence, existence, operation, or maintenance
of the stormwater quality best management practices by the owner, the county
shall notify the owner and the owner shall defend, at its own expense, any suit
based on such claim.
      (2)   If any judgment or claims against the county, its agents, or
employees shall be allowed, the owner shall pay all costs and expenses in
connection therewith.
   (E)   Record. This agreement, as attached by the SWPPP and long-term
operation and maintenance agreement, shall be recorded among the land records
of the county, and shall constitute a covenant running with the land, and shall
be binding on the owner, its administrators, executors, assigns, heirs, and any
other successors in interest.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
STORMWATER DRAINAGE MAINTENANCE STANDARDS AND CONTROL
§ 152.065  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by I.C. 14-33-5-20,
which mandates that the Stormwater Board make regulations for the
administration of the affairs of the county.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.066  FINDING AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Finding. The Stormwater Board finds that the original stormwater
drainage facilities constructed within the developed areas of the county have
become inadequate or of limited use because of aging, neglect, encroachment,
pollution, changing of topography of the drainage area, lack of maintenance,
and that immediate steps need to ensure that the purposes of the Stormwater
Board relating to stormwater drainage are accomplished.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Prevent the degradation of the stormwater drainage facilities
within the county;
      (2)   Correct problems associated with encroachment of constructed
improvements in drainage easements;
      (3)   Correct problems associated with uncontrolled vegetative growth
within drainage easements; and
      (4)   To protect and promote the health, safety, and welfare of persons
within the county by improving stormwater drainage in order to minimize
standing water that could provide a habitat for the proliferation of insects
that are potential carriers of diseases affecting the residents of the county.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.067  APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to all conditions and activities that are serviced by
the MS4 permit holder within the boundaries and jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.068  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The county’s Stormwater Board.
   COUNTY. Includes the county acting through its duly appointed, qualified,
and acting advisory Plan Commission, together with the officers, employees,
attorneys, and designees of said Commission.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any drainage easement, channel, swale, ditch, or other
facilities in which the general public or the county has a right, or interest,
for stormwater drainage purposed, or right to use, that conveys surface
stormwater runoff to waters of the state throughout the county.
   GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope or
elevation.
   INDIVIDUAL PARCEL. A single parcel of land within the county.
   INDIVIDUAL PARCEL OWNER. A person who has an ownership interest in,
financial control of, or a leasehold interest in an individual parcel.
   OWNER. A single property or, collectively as all the homes, within a
neighborhood, even if a homeowners association has never been developed, or has
dissolved, where the home(s) directly contribute to the stormwater facility,
structure, or feature.
   PERSON. Except to the extent exempted from this chapter, any individual,
partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation,
trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility,
cooperative, city, county, or other political subdivision of the state, any
interstate body, or any other legal entity.
   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL INSPECTOR. A person who has been certified by the
county to be qualified to inspect stormwater quality management activities and
oversee maintenance activities.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation from such sources as
rainfall, snow melt, or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes,
reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of
surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within, or forming a
part of, the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and
retained completely upon the property of a single person.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.069  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements apply to all drainage ways located with the MS4
permit holder of the county.
   (A)   No individual parcel owner shall allow a drainage way on an individual
parcel that the individual parcel owner has an interest in:
      (1)   To be blocked by vegetative growth of a height or more than 12
inches above the ground level such that the vegetative growth restricts the
flow of stormwater runoff; and/or
      (2)   To be blocked by any fence or other human-made object that
restricts the flow of stormwater runoff.
   (B)   No individual parcel owner shall allow anything to be constructed in a
drainage way on an individual parcel that the individual parcel owner has an
interest in, in such a way that it restricts the flow of stormwater runoff.
   (C)   No individual parcel owner shall change the grading in a drainage way
on an individual parcel that the individual parcel owner has an interest in,
even if it will not restrict or alter the flow of the stormwater runoff,
without first acquiring an approval from the county to do so.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall hinder stormwater runoff in a drainage way, or
fail to keep and maintain any obstacles that would pollute, contaminate,
obstruct, hinder, or significantly retard the flow of water through the
drainage way.
      (2)   Every individual parcel owner shall maintain existing privately
owned structures on his, her, or their individual parcel adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structure will not become a hazard or impediment to
the use, function, or physical integrity of any drainage way.
   (E)   (1)   The county will first notify the owner of required maintenance.
      (2)   The owner has 45 days to act on the notification and remedy needed
maintenance and/or repairs to meet the county’s requirements.
      (3)   If, after for 45 days, it has not been remedied to meet the
county’s standards, the county may enter the property and take necessary action
(s) to maintain and/or repair the stormwater facility, feature, and/or
structure.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency situation, the county has the right to
enter the property and immediately perform the necessary repair or maintenance.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.070  INSPECTIONS.
   The Board, or its representatives, may enter any individual parcel site to
verify compliance with this chapter, or for performing any action necessary to
bring an individual parcel into compliance with terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.071  ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Powers. The Board shall proceed with enforcement action under the
authority of this chapter. The county’s Stormwater Board directs the employees
of the county to utilize the rules, procedures, duties, and powers authorized
by statute in enforcing this chapter. The Stormwater Coordinator shall have
primary responsibility to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Remedies not exclusive. The various remedies provided for in this
chapter are not exclusive of each other, or any other remedies available under
any applicable federal, state, or local law, and it is within the discretion of
the county to seek cumulative remedies.
   (C)   Notice of violation (NOV). The Board shall deliver a notice of
violation of this chapter to one or more individual parcel owners if a
violation of the requirements is discovered. That notice shall provide the
individual parcel owner with a description of the violation and give an
opportunity to remedy the violation within 45 days. If, within 45 days after
issuance of an NOV, an individual parcel owner does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter, the Board may seek enforcement of the
requirements of this chapter and seek fines, as provided below and further
described in §
152.999. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
However, subsequent continuing violations are not entitled to a separate NOV.
   (D)   Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided, any condition caused, or permitted to exist,
in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is a threat to public
health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be
summarily abated or restored at the violator’s expense, and/or a civil action
to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be
taken; in an emergency situation, the county representatives reserve the right
to enter any individual parcel or site to perform maintenance or repairs, as
required. After the grace period required by the notice of violation, the
county representatives reserve the right to enter any individual parcel or site
to verify compliance.
   (E)   Cost of abatement of the violation. Within 30 days after the abatement
of the violation, the owner of the property should be notified, in writing, of
the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may
file a written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment within 15 days
from the date of the cost of abatement notification letter.
      (1)   If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner, as determined
by the decision of the county, or by the expiration of the time in which to
file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the
property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the Board by reason of such violation. The liability shall be
paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the legal rate of
judgments shall accrue on the balance beginning on the first day following
discovery of the violation.
   (F)   Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision, or fail to comply with any of the requirements, of this chapter.
      (1)   If a person has violated, or continues to violate, the provisions
of this chapter, the Board may petition for a preliminary or permanent
injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further
violations, or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation.
      (2)   This remedy is in addition to, not as an alternative to, the fines
and corrective measures that may be undertaken, as provided for elsewhere in
this chapter.
   (G)   Judicial review. Violations of this chapter can be enforced by an
action being filed in any court in the county having jurisdiction to issue an
injunction and impose fines and other remedies provided for hereunder.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.072  COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   This chapter does not supersede federal, state, or local laws, statutes, or
regulations except as allowed.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Following §
152.010, a civil penalty of not more than $2,500 may be assessed for each of
the following offenses.
         (a)   Development without permit. To engage in any development, use,
construction, remodeling, or other activity of any nature upon land, or
improvements thereon, subject to the jurisdiction of this chapter without all
required permits, certificates, or other forms of authorization, as set forth
in this chapter.
         (b)   Development inconsistent with permit. To engage in any
development, use, construction, remodeling, or other activity of any nature in
any way inconsistent with any approved plan, permit, certificate, or other form
of authorization granted for such activity.
         (c)   Violation by act or omission. To violate, by act or omission,
any term, variance, modification, condition, or qualification placed by the
county, or its designated representative, upon any required permit.
      (2)   In the event there are penalties assessed by the state against the
county and resulting from a violation of §§
152.001 through
152.011, the person responsible for such violation may be assessed the lessor
of the amount of the penalty assessed as against the county, or $2,500.
   (B)   (1)   Following §
152.031, a civil penalty of not more than $2,500 may be assessed for each of
the following offenses:
         (a)   Development without permit. To engage in any development, use,
construction, remodeling or other activity of any nature upon land or
improvements thereon, subject to the jurisdiction of §§
152.025 through
152.032 without all required permits, certificates, or other forms of
authorization as set forth in this chapter;
         (b)   Development inconsistent with permit. To engage in any
development, use, construction, remodeling, or other activity of any nature in
any way inconsistent with any approved plan, permit, certificate, or other form
of authorization granted for such activity;
         (c)   Violation by act or omission. To violate, by act or omission,
any term, variance, modification, condition or qualification placed by the
county upon any required permit, certificate, or other form of authorization of
the use, development, or other activity upon land or improvements thereon;
         (d)   Illicit discharge. To improperly dispose of any substance
defined as an illicit discharge; and
         (e)   Household products. To improperly dispose of any substance, not
included in §§
152.045 and
152.047, that was purchased over-the- counter for household use, in quantities
considered normal for household purposes, which, upon discharge to the MS4 or
drainage network, would have an adverse impact on water quality, or cause the
county to be in noncompliance with any applicable environmental permit.
      (2)   In the event there are penalties assessed by the state against the
county and resulting from a violation of §§
152.025 through
152.032, the person responsible for such violation may be assessed the lessor
of the amount of the penalty assessed as against the county, or $2,500.
   (C)   Any person causing or contributing to a violation of §§
152.065 through
152.072 may be fined as follows.
      (1)   A person in violation of §§
152.065 through
152.072 shall be fined a minimum of $250, and a maximum of $1,000, for each day
which the property has not been brought into compliance with the requirements
of §§
152.065 through
152.072.
      (2)   The second subsequent violation of §§
152.065 through
152.072 for the same property owned and/or occupied by the same person shall
result in the owner and/or lessee being fined a minimum of $750, and a maximum
of $2,000, for each day the violation continues.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 10-15-2019)
APPENDIX A:  LONG-TERM OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT
 
File No.:                                             Parcel:                  
                                 
As accepted through SWQMP No.:                                                 
               
Project Name:                                                                 
                             
Primary function or description of activities to be executed at the site:
                                                                               
                               
                                                                               
                               
                                                                               
                               
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered on this              day, of the month        
              , of the year _____ , by and between                            
                                   (“OWNER”) and Floyd County, Indiana, acting
by and through its duly authorized representative.
WITNESS, that                                                                  
                         
WHEREAS, Floyd County Ordinance establishes requirements for stormwater quality
best management practices and a Stormwater Quality Management Permit (SWQMP) to
manage the quality of stormwater discharged from areas of urban development and
redevelopment; and
WHEREAS, under said Ordinance Floyd County shall have the authority to inspect
private systems within Floyd County and to order such corrective actions to
said private stormwater management systems as are necessary to maintain
properly the stormwater management systems within Floyd County; and
WHEREAS, under said Ordinance it is provided that Stormwater Quality Best
Management Practices (BMPs) not owned municipally must be maintained by the
property owner according to the terms of Long-Term Operation and Maintenance
Agreement, that must be implemented before a SWQMP is approved; and
WHEREAS, Floyd County has adopted and approved technical guidelines relating to
stormwater BMPs in Floyd County; and
WHEREAS, the OWNER is the legal title-holder of certain real property commonly
known as, and more particularly described by, an instrument recorded in the
office of the Recorder of Floyd County, in Deed number                        
    , or as Instrument number                                                  
                                     (herein after called the “Property”);and
WHEREAS, OWNER is proceeding to build on, develop, or redevelop the property;
and
WHEREAS, the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and Long-Term
Operation and Maintenance as approved or to be approved by                    
                                    , a licensed Professional Engineer, dated
this                        day of                               20           
     , is on file in Floyd County; is expressly made a pare hereof; and as
approved of to be approved by Floyd County, provides for stormwater quality
management within the confines of the property; and
WHEREAS, Floyd County and the OWNER agree that the health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents of Floyd County require that on-site stormwater
quality BMPs be constructed, operated, and maintained on the property; and
WHEREAS, Floyd County requires that onsite stormwaterfacilities in accordance
with the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and Long-Term Operation
and Maintenance Plan be adequately constructed and installed, operated, and
maintained by the OWNER; and
WHEREAS, an approved Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan and Long-Term
Operation and Maintenance Plan will adequately illustrate the location type and
extent of stormwater quality BMPs, minimum inspection procedures and schedule,
minimum operation procedures and schedule, and anticipated minimum maintenance
activities including when and how to remove accumulated/collected/filtered/
amassed/grown excess vegetation, sediment, debris, trash, pollutant and/or
forms of pollution from the stormwater quality best management practices,
NOW, THEREFORE,
In consideration of the foregoing premises, the mutual covenants contained
herein, and the following terms and conditions, the parties agree as follows:
   1. The on-site stormwater quality BMPs shall be constructed by the OWNER in
accordance with the SWPPP and Long-Term Operation and Maintenance Plan.
   2. The OWNER shall operate and maintain the stormwater quality BMPs as
directed by the Long-Term Operation and Maintenance Plan in good working order
acceptable to Floyd County.
   3. The OWNER agrees that inspections will be performed by a Qualified
Professional.
   4. The OWNER agrees that inspections will be documented and include the
following information:
      a.   A description of the current operational or functional status of the
stormwater quality BMPs. For structures that accumulate sediment, trash,
debris, or other pollutant or form of pollution, an indication of used and
remaining capacity (fraction, percentage, depth or volume) shall be given to
identify when the BMP must be cleaned out.
      b.   Identification of any necessary repairs, sediment/debris removal or
replacement of all or portions of the stormwater system(s).
      c.   The results of any field or laboratory analyses performed.
      d.   Other relevant or unusual observations related to the system{'{'}s).
      e.   Action plan to prevent premature stormwater system failure as
consistent with the Long-Term Operation and Maintenance Agreement(s)
provisions.
      f.   Action plan to prevent the premature system failure that exceeds the
Long-Term Operation and Maintenance Agreement(s) provisions, but are necessary
to prevent stormwater pollution from leaving the site.
   5. The OWNER hereby grants permission to Floyd County, its authorized agents
and employees, the right to enter the property to inspect the stormwater
quality best management practices whenever it deems necessary. Whenever
possible, Floyd County shall notify the OWNER prior to entering the property.
   6. In the event the OWNER fails to maintain stormwater quality best
management practices in accordance with the SWPPP and Long-Term Operation and
Maintenance Plan in good working order acceptable to Floyd County, Floyd County
may enter the property and take whatever steps it deems necessary to repair or
maintain said stormwater quality best management practices. This provision
shall not be construed to allow Floyd County to erect any structure of a
permanent nature on the land of the OWNER without first obtaining written
approval of the OWNER. It is expressly understood and agreed that Floyd County
is under no obligation to maintain or repair said facilities, and in no event
shall this Agreement be construed to impose any such obligation on Floyd
County.
   7. In the event Floyd County, pursuant to this Agreement, performs work of
any nature, or expends any funds in performance of said work for labor, use of
equipment, supplies, materials, and the like, the OWNER shall reimburse Floyd
County upon demand, within ninety (90) days of receipt thereof, for all costs
incurred by Floyd County hereunder. In the event the OWNER shall fail to
reimburse Floyd County within said ninety (90) days, Floyd County may institute
such legal measures as are deemed necessary to insure compliance with this
agreement and to recover all sums expended hereunder, to include costs and
reasonable attorney fees.
   8. It is the intent of this Agreement to guarantee the proper maintenance of
onsite stormwater quality best management practices by the OWNER; provided,
however, that this Agreement shall not be deemed to create or affect any
additional liability of the OWNER for damages alleged to have resulted from or
been caused by stormwater management practices.
   9. The OWNER, its executors, administrators, assigns, and any other
successors in interest, shall indemnify and hold Floyd County and its agents
and employees harmless for any and all damages, accidents, casualties,
occurrences, or claims which might arise or be asserted against Floyd County
from the construction, presence, existence, operation or maintenance of the
stormwater quality best management practices by the OWNER or Floyd County.
   10. In the event a claim is asserted against Floyd County, its agents or
employees for the construction, presence, existence, operation, or maintenance
of the stormwater quality BMP by the OWNER, Floyd County shall notify the OWNER
and the OWNER shall defend at its own expense any suit based on such claim. If
any judgment or claims against Floyd County, its agents or employees shall be
allowed, the OWNER shall pay all costs and expenses in connection therewith.
   11. This Agreement, as attached by the SWPPP and Long-Term Operation and
Maintenance Plan, shall be recorded among the land records of Floyd County, and
shall constitute a covenant running with the land, and shall be binding on the
OWNER, its administrators, executors, assigns, heirs, and any other successor
in interest. The name and mailing address of the OWNER shall be noted on the
plat as well.
WINTESS the following signatures and seals:
Floyd County, Indiana
By:                                                                            
Signature:                                                                  
Stormwater Board President
ATTEST:
                                                                           
Instrument prepared by:
                                                                               
 
My Commission Expires:
                                                                               
 
OWNER
Owner Name:                                                            
Signature:                                                                 
Address:                                                                   
                                                                               
                                                                               
Phone:                                                                     
WITNESS my hand and seal this                day of
                                       ,                      
                                                                               
 
Notary Public
                                                                               
Printed Name
Resident of                                    County, IN
CHAPTER 153:  STREETS, DRIVES, AND PUBLIC WALKWAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Road cut permits
Driveway Permits
   
153.15   Authority; jurisdiction
   
153.16   Definitions
   
153.17   General provisions
   
153.18   Driveway requirements
   
153.19   Driveway plan requirements
Street Numbering
   
153.30   Standards of compliance
   
153.31   Enforcement
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01  ROAD CUT PERMITS.
   (A)   Authority. The Board of Commissioners enacted the road cut permit,
ordained through the authority provided under Indiana Code.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. This section shall apply to all land within the county,
except that which lies within the municipal jurisdiction of the City of New
Albany, the Town of Georgetown, and the Town of Greenville.
   (C)   General provisions.
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall cut into, tunnel under, or
make any excavation in any County Road without first obtaining a road cut
permit from the Board of Commissioners’ office.
      (2)   Prior to the consideration of an application, an applicant must
submit to the office of the County Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer an
application, which shall accurately describe the location of the proposed road
cut and the specifications required by this section for such construction. The
application will be forwarded for review to the County Highway Superintendent.
      (3)   The application shall be in accordance with all applicable
standards, and shall not be in conflict with any approved Transportation or
Land Use Plan by the Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   The applicant, who may be the owner, agent, or contractor, shall
submit a Location Construction Plan showing specifications, including the
following:
         (a)   Name of applicant;
         (b)   Location of the intended cut, tunnel, or excavation on a map;
         (c)   Proposed size of intended cut, tunnel, or excavation;
         (d)   Person, firm, or corporation doing the actual work;
         (e)   Certificate of insurance for the person, firm, or corporation
doing the actual work;
         (f)   A time schedule for completion and restoration; and
         (g)   A signed application form.
      (5)   All applications for permits shall be filed in the office of the
Board of Commissioners.
      (6)   A preliminary field meeting shall take place between the County
Infrastructure Coordinator/ Engineer, County Highway Superintendent, and
applicant prior to any activity taking place. At the time of the preliminary
field meeting, the road cut fee shall be established.
      (7)   Road cut fee shall be paid in the office of the Board of
Commissioners prior to the issuance of the road cut permit. The Board of
Commissioners’ office will forward the permit to the County Road Department.
      (8)   Upon field meeting, the county reserves the right to require a bond
to be posted by the applicant in favor of the county. Bonds shall be filed with
the County Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer’s office before a permit is
issued.
      (9)   Applicant must have copy of the permit on-site.
      (10)   In case of emergency repairs, the applicant shall notify the
County Infrastructure Coordinator/County Engineer and/or County Highway
Superintendent as soon as possible, and an emergency repair permit shall be
issued by the county. The county will determine the fees applicable, and those
will be payable within 48 hours of the emergency.
   (D)   Fees. Permit fees shall be as follows:
 
Permit            Fee
Administrative    $100
Improper backfill $1.87 per square foot
Road cut          $3.89 per square foot of trench, cut into pavement for final
                  asphalt coat
Tunnel            $100
 
   (E)   Road cut requirements.
      (1)   All excavated material shall be hauled off-site. Pipe, wire, or
conduit will be placed on proper bedding.
      (2)   Utility trenches in the roadway, including the curb and five feet
beyond, if disturbed, shall be backfilled with flowable fill.
      (3)    Flowable fill shall be for utility trench backfill and achieve a
minimum strength of 75 PSI and a maximum compressive strength of 250 PSI at 14
days, as tested. All products must be tested, and the test results shall be
submitted to the County Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer prior to its use in
the roadway or right-of-way.
      (4)   A list of approved mix designs is available through the County
Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer’s office.
      (5)   Flowable fill shall remain accessible for digging with a standard
backhoe. Trenches shall be filled with flowable fill to within two inches from
the surface. Material shall be protected from traffic until adequate strength
has been achieved.
      (6)   The applicant can request a waiver of the flowable fill to the
County Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer and County Highway Superintendent.
      (7)   Final blacktopping and sealing of the trench shall be completed by
the applicant. The applicant shall notify the County Road Department for final
inspection.
      (8)   It shall remain the responsibility of the applicant to maintain the
road cut in a safe condition until such time as the County Highway Department
paves said cut.
      (9)   Any additional work due to improper backfilling will be billed to
the applicant as an addition to the original bill.
      (10)   The County Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer shall inspect or
cause to inspect all excavations, cuttings, and tunnels being made in, or
under, any public road to ensure compliance with said ordinance.
      (11)   The applicant shall notify the County Highway Department and
County Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer’s offices 24 hours prior to any work
being conducted, unless in cases of emergency repair.
      (12)   The Applicant is responsible for placement, supply, maintenance of
barriers and warning devices necessary for the public safety.
      (13)   All cleanups, repairs, and/or replacement of cable, pipes, or
conduit are the responsibility of the applicant.
      (14)   The applicant shall be responsible for all debris and material on-
site and shall ensure no material is discharged into streams or waterways.
   (F)   Penalties.
      (1)   The County Infrastructure Coordinator shall act as the enforcement
agent of the Board of Commissioners and shall have the power to issue said
fine.
      (2)   (a)   The property owner may appear before the Board of
Commissioners to appeal the violation.
         (b)   The Board of Commissioners has the ability to waive or reduce
the fine based on reasonable cause.
(Ord. 2010-IV, passed 2-2-2010)  Penalty, see §
153.99
DRIVEWAY PERMITS
§ 153.15  AUTHORITY; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Authority. The Board of Commissioners enacted the driveway permit,
ordained through the authority provided under Indiana Code.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. This chapter shall apply to all land within the county,
except that which lies within the municipal jurisdiction of the City of New
Albany, the Town of Georgetown, and the Town of Greenville.
(Ord. 2010-III, passed 2-2-2010)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVEWAY. A private driveway, road, field road, or other traveled way giving
access from a public county road to one or more buildings located, or to be
constructed, on adjacent lands.
   SHARED DRIVEWAY. A private driveway serving more than one residence. The
maintenance of the SHARED DRIVEWAY is the responsibility of the property
owners.
   SIGHT VISIBILITY TRIANGLE. A triangular-shaped portion of land established
at street intersection in which nothing is erected, placed, planted, or allowed
to grow in such a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of
motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
(Ord. 2010-III, passed 2-2-2010)
§ 153.17  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall construct or improve a driveway without first
obtaining a driveway permit from the Board of Commissioners’ designate, or the
County Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer’s office.
      (2)   Prior to the consideration of an application, an applicant must
submit to the County Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer’s office an
application which shall accurately describe the location of the proposed
driveway and the specifications required by this chapter for driveway
construction.
   (B)   Any re-graveling of previously constructed driveways does not
constitute a change/improvement and would not require an application for a
permit.
   (C)   No building permit for new construction will be issued until the
driveway permit has been issued.
   (D)   A driveway permit will be issued for the purpose of permitting
vehicular access or other means of travel from a public County Road to a
private driveway, road, and field road for all persons seeking a building
permit. All driveway specifications for construction in this chapter will
apply.
   (E)   The applicant, who may be the owner, agent, or contractor, shall
submit a location construction plan showing specifications, including the
grade, slope, width, and length of the driveway. Said construction plan will
specify completion dates for culvert placement, aggregate placement, erosion
control procedures, and final application of a two-inch layer of gravel. Any
proposed driveway constructed or any modification shall be accompanied by a
Drainage Plan presented at time of the application. The Drainage Plan shall
include the following:
      (1)   A site plan indicating the location of any ditch and location of
any culvert;
      (2)   A timetable for re-seeding of disturbed area; and
      (3)   Size and material of any culvert to be used.
   (F)   Driveway permits shall be valid for a period of one year from date of
issue. Re-application for a permit will be required for any improvements not
completed during the period. Re-application permits will not be denied without
reasonable cause.
   (G)   The County Infrastructure Coordinator/ Engineer’s office will provide
a written finding if the application is rejected, detailing the issues to be
resolved. The written findings shall be sent to the applicant via certified
mail.
   (H)   A driveway permit is transferable to a new owner. Transfer of
ownership does not effect the time period of a valid permit.
(Ord. 2010-III, passed 2-2-2010)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.18  DRIVEWAY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All roads within approved platted subdivisions shall meet the
requirements of the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
   (B)   The driveway must have in-back-out area with a radius of at least 90
degrees.
   (C)   (1)   All intersections must maintain an area (sight visibility
triangle) where primary or accessory structures, trees, vegetation (other than
agricultural crops), or signs (other than road signs) are not allowed to be
placed, or to project, between a height of three and eight feet, measured from
the nearest top of the curb (or edge of pavement where curbs are not present.)
      (2)   The sight visibility triangle shall be established by connecting
points located along the intersecting rights-of-way at distances from the point
of intersection required.
   (D)   The driveway shall have a width at the place of intersection with the
public road of at least 24 feet and an obstructed view of 300 feet at that
place.
   (E)   Driveway intersections with County Roads shall provide a leveling area
to ensure public safety that is appropriate with topography. Driveway slopes
shall not exceed 10%.
   (F)   The driveway shall setback from adjoining property lines a minimum of
five feet.
   (G)   Each driveway shall have a culvert at the ditch line where the
driveway meets the public road, unless it is part of a development which has a
curb and gutter system. The culvert shall be no less than 18 inches in
diameter, unless determined by the County Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer’s
office that a smaller culvert, or none, is needed.
   (H)   All cost of the construction of driveway, including the cost of
culverts and engineer’s plan, if required, shall be paid by the applicant
property owner requesting the permit.
   (I)   Shared driveways shall require a recorded maintenance and use
agreement submitted with the driveway application. This agreement shall bind
future owners to terms and conditions of the maintenance and use agreement.
   (J)   The County Infrastructure Coordinator/ Engineer may request an
engineer’s plan if the proposed site is deemed to have safety concerns.
   (K)   An applicant can request a waiver of the requirements. Such waiver
must be approved by the Board of Commissioners. Any associated cost, such as
engineering review, necessary for the Board of Commissioners to determine the
merits of the wavier shall be the responsibility of the applicant property
owner.
(Ord. 2010-III, passed 2-2-2010; Ord. 2010-XVIII, passed 7-6-2010)  Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.19  DRIVEWAY PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The applicant may prepare and submit an application for a driveway
permit. The applicant shall submit the following information regarding the
driveway:
      (1)   Precise location of the driveway on a site plan submitted as part
of the application;
      (2)   Precise location of the driveway staked on the property to identify
proposed site;
      (3)   Grade of driveway at intersection;
      (4)   Location of any retaining walls or structures;
      (5)   Location and size of culverts;
      (6)   Erosion control measures; and
      (7)   A timetable for completion of driveway and driveway activities.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may require the applicant to obtain a plan
prepared by a professional engineer licensed in the state prior to the
construction or modification of any proposed driveway. An engineer’s plan is
required:
      (1)   For a driveway, or segment of a driveway, whose construction
requires a disturbance of land with a slope of 25%, unless waived by the Board
of Commissioners;
      (2)   For a driveway, or segment of a driveway, that requires a retaining
wall, or other special erosion control measure as determined by the County
Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer’s office; and/or
      (3)   When the County Infrastructure Coordinator/Engineer’s office
requests a plan for reasonable cause associated with public health, safety, or
general welfare.
(Ord. 2010-III, passed 2-2-2010)  Penalty, see §
153.99
STREET NUMBERING
§ 153.30  STANDARDS OF COMPLIANCE.
   All residential, commercial, and industrial property located in the county
shall conspicuously display the appropriate street address assigned by the Plan
Commission in accordance with the following standards.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
      (1)   The address shall be placed at the front of the residence near the
front door, or in a manner so as to be visible from the nearest fronting road;
and if the residence is more than 100 feet from the nearest fronting road, the
numbers shall be posted next to the driveway at a distance no greater than 100
feet.
      (2)   Such address shall be clearly visible from the nearest fronting
road at a distance of no more than 100 feet back from the fronting road and
kept free and clear of any obstructions hindering reasonable visibility from
said fronting road.
      (3)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form of a size at least
four inches by two inches, or larger, if necessary to be visible from the
nearest fronting road. They shall be reflective and in a color distinguishable
from its background, with the exception that existing posting numerals shall be
acceptable hereunder if so visible as to adequately identify each single-family
dwelling. No cursive numbers shall be used.
   (B)   Apartment buildings.
      (1)   The address shall be placed in a manner to ensure prompt
identification of apartment buildings from the nearest fronting road or parking
area, depending upon the location and placement of each particular apartment
building.
      (2)   Such addresses shall be clearly visible and kept free and clear of
any obstructions hindering reasonable visibility from the nearest fronting road
or parking area.
      (3)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form of a size at least
four inches by two inches, or larger, if necessary to be visible from the
nearest fronting road or parking area; they shall be reflective and in a color
distinguishable from its background, with the exception that existing posted
numerals shall be acceptable hereunder if so visible as to adequately identify
each apartment building.
      (4)   In the event that apartment buildings located in a complex, or
elsewhere, are not clearly visible from the nearest public thoroughfare, the
owner of any such apartment building shall use a system of identification that
is reasonably calculated to be readily identifiable by public service and
emergency personnel. The Plan Commission Director, or his or her authorized
representative, shall have the authority to approve any such identification
system proposed in writing by apartment building owners. Such written approval
obtained from the County Plan Director shall be prima facie evidence of
compliance with this subchapter.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial structures.
      (1)   The address shall be placed on all commercial and industrial
structures so an to ensure visibility from the nearest fronting road, and if
the commercial or industrial structure is not visible from the nearest fronting
road, the street address shall be posted in a conspicuous manner so as to be
visible from the nearest fronting road.
      (2)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form of a size at least
five by three inches, or larger, if necessary to be visible from the nearest
fronting road. They shall be reflective and in a color distinguishable from its
background, with the exception that existing posted numerals shall be
acceptable hereunder if so visible as to adequately identify each commercial or
industrial structure.
      (3)   In the event the commercial or industrial structures located in a
complex, or elsewhere, are not clearly visible from the nearest public
thoroughfare, the owner of any such structures shall use a system of
identification that is reasonably calculated to be readily identifiable by
public service and emergency personnel.
         (a)   The Plan Commission Director, or his or her authorized
representative, shall have the authority to approve any such identification
system proposed, in writing, by owners of commercial or industrial structures.
         (b)   Such written approval obtained from the Plan Commission Director
shall be prima facie evidence of compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 89-4, passed 12-19-1989)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.31  ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Sheriff, or his or her authorized representatives, are hereby
designated as enforcement personnel for this subchapter, and they are hereby
vested with the authority to issue citations for violations of this subchapter,
which shall be enforced with the intent to ensure that each, residential,
commercial, and industrial structure in the county is clearly identified by its
assigned street address in order to enable emergency and other public service
personnel to promptly identify same at all times during the night and day.
(Ord. 89-4, passed 12-19-1989)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
153.01 may be subject to a fine of no less than $100 for each offense; a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Should a driveway be constructed or modified in a way which violates
the provisions of §§
153.15 through
153.19, the applicant property owner(s) shall pay a fine. The County
Infrastructure Coordinator shall act as the enforcement agent of the Board of
Commissioners and shall have the power to issue said fine. The property owner
shall be notified of the violation and have ten days to correct the violation.
If the violation is not corrected within the ten-day time period, the County
Infrastructure Coordinator shall notify the property owner via certified mail
of the imposition of the fine. The fine shall be $100 per day, per incident,
until the violation is corrected. The property owner may appear before the
Board of Commissioners to appeal the violation. The Board of Commissioners has
the ability to waive or reduce the fine based on reasonable cause.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation failing to comply with the provisions
of §§
153.30 and
153.31 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $25. Each
day during which the violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
Warning citations may be issued by enforcement personnel in appropriate
circumstances.
(Ord. 89-4, passed 12-19-1989; Ord. 2010-III, passed 2-2-2010; Ord. 2010-IV,
passed 2-2-2010)
CHAPTER 154:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
154.01   Subdivision control standards adopted by reference
§ 154.01  SUBDIVISION CONTROL STANDARDS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s subdivision control standards, and any and all amendments, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2010-VI, passed 2-2-2010; Ord. passed 9-17-2019)
CHAPTER 155:  ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
   
155.02   Sewage disposal district
§ 155.01  ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s zoning regulations, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2006-VI, passed 6-24-2006; Ord. 2006-V, passed 5-3-2006; Res. 2010-V,
passed 2-2-2010; Res. 2010-IX, passed 3-16-2010; Ord. 2011-II, passed 1-4-2011;
Ord. 2011-XI, passed 8-2-2011; Res. passed 2-27-2012; Res. 2012-V, passed 3-6-
2012; Ord. 2012-XI, passed 10-16-2012; Ord. 2013-VI, passed 6-4-2013; Ord.
2013-XIV, passed 10-15-2013; Ord. 2014-III, passed 4-1-2014; Ord. 2011-XII,
passed 8- -2011; Ord. 2014-XIII, passed 12-2-2014; Ord. 2017-13, passed 4-18-
2017; Ord. 2017-22, passed 10-17-2017; Ord. 2017-26, passed 12-19-2017; Ord.
2018-3, passed 2-6-2018; Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-2-2021)
§ 155.02  SEWAGE DISPOSAL DISTRICT.
   The Board of Commissioners established an on-site sewage disposal district,
which comprises any, and all, land or real property located within the county
that is not currently a legally-established sewer district, or that is not
controlled, restricted, or otherwise already governed for the purpose of sewage
disposal and/or treatment by a legitimate declaration of authority by a
certificate of territorial authority (CTA), or by extension of its sewer
district by an officially recognized and incorporated municipal entity (e.g.,
town or city) as of May 7, 2014.
(Ord. 2014-VI, passed 5-7-2014)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
      
II.   STREET VACATIONS
      
III.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE
      
V.   EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS
      
VI.   FUNDS
TABLE I:  ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2016-21       9-6-        Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
65-1          1-8-1965    Adopting land to be used as a public park.
71-1          7-17-1971   Establishing the Precinct Greenville Three.
5             10-5-1987   Amending Zoning Ord. A67-4.
2010-XXIV     10-19-2010  Amending the zoning classification of the Planned
                          Unit Development Savannah Gardens.
2011-XII      8-2-2011    Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
2012-IX       9-4-2012    Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
2013-VI       6-4-2013    Amending zoning map by changing multiple zoning
                          classifications.
2016-7        4-19-2016   Establishing the Planned Unit Development Serenity
                          Center.
Res. -        12-19-2016  Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
Res. -        12-19-2016  Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
2017-8        3-7-2017    Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
2017-9        3-7-2017    Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
2017-18       9-5-2017    Amending the zoning map by incorporating Planned Unit
                          Development Knob Hill.
2017-19       9-5-2017    Amending the zoning map by incorporating Planned Unit
                          Development Knob Hill Two.
2018-7        7-3-2018    Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
2018-14       12-12-2018  Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
2019-15       7-2-2019    Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
2020-3        3-3-2020    Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
2020-13       9-1-2020    Amending Zoning Ord. 2006-6.
2021-6        4-6-2021    Amending Zoning ord. 2006-6.
                         
 
TABLE II:  STREET VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
88-2          8-2-1988    Vacating portions of Fiske Street, Wayne Street, and
                          Franklin Street.
90-3          3-5-1990    Vacating portions of certain streets within Ridgewood
                          Plat.
90-4          5-7-1990    Vacating a public right-of-way known as Tucker Road.
90-5          6-19-1990   Vacating public use of a portion of an easement in
                          Plat No. 883.
7             9-18-1990   Vacating an easement within the Ridgewood
                          Subdivision.
1996-VII      9-17-1996   Abandoning part of Duffy Road at its intersection
                          with Old Vincennes Road.
1997-IX       9-2-1997    Vacating a public right-of-way known as Hickory
                          Drive.
1999-IX       7-20-1999   Vacating a portion of Plat No. 1134.
2001-VI       4-3-2001    Vacating an alley right-of-way.
2001-XVIII    8-21-2001   Vacating a portion of a drainage easement within
                          Hilltop Acres.
2003-V        2-4-2003    Vacating portions of Plat No. 965.
XXIX          12-7-2004   Vacating a platted utility easement on Lot 22 and Lot
                          23 in the Woods of Skyline Subdivision.
2005-XX       5-17-2005   Vacating a public easement on Lot 16 of the
                          Reflection Ridge Subdivision.
2005-XXI      5-17-2005   Vacating a platted easement on Lot 16 and Lot 17 in
                          the Rising Fawn Subdivision.
2006-XII      10-17-2006  Vacating a portion of Relender Road.
X             10-17-2006  Vacating a platted easement on Parcel D and Parcel E
                          of LaFollette Station Towne Centre Subdivision.
XI            11-21-2006  Vacating a portion of an easement within the
                          Woodbridge Farms Subdivision.
2006-XIII     12-19-2006  Vacating and closing portions of Old River Road and
                          Two Mile Lane.
2007-X        5-15-2007   Vacating a part of a platted drainage and utility
                          easement on Lot 64 in the Highland Oaks Subdivision.
2008-II       2-5-2008    Vacating an easement in Lot 48 in the Woods of
                          Lafayette.
2008-XI       8-5-2008    Vacating a public way known as Franklin Street.
2008-XII      8-5-2008    Vacating a public way known as Wayne Street.
2009-XV       12-1-2009   Vacating a portion of an unnamed public way within
                          Royal Oak Estates.
2010-XXI      7-20-2010   Vacating a portion of Plat No. 135 and Plat No. 137.
2010-XXIII    10-19-2010  Vacating a portion of a public way known as an
                          extension of High Street.
2011-VII      6-7-2011    Vacating an entrance roadway to the Altawood
                          Subdivision.
2011-XIV      9-20-2011   Partially vacating Plat 1307 of the Chambord
                          Subdivision.
2013-IX       7-2-2013    Vacating a drainage and utility easement in the
                          Westridge Forest Subdivision Plat.
2015-III      3-3-2015    Vacating a drainage and utility easement.
2015-XI       10-20-2015  Vacating a drainage and utility easement.
2016-15       7-5-2016    Vacating a public easement.
2019-09       4-16-2019   Vacating a part of Old River Road.
2019-16       7-6-2019    Vacating a portion of a certain alley within the City
                          of Borden.
2019-36       12- -2019   Vacating and closing a certain segment of Old River
                          Road.
2020-04       3-3-2020    Vacating a utility easement within the Hill Top Acres
                          Subdivision.
                         
 
TABLE III:  AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
92-2  3-21-  Contract for a contract dated February 18, 1992.
      1992
-     6-19-  Franchise agreement between the County Clerk’s office and PayTRUST Solutions
      2007   (PTS) for a term of one year.
-     9-27-  Agreement to build tall brick walls on the Savannah Gardens side of Lots One
      2010   through Nine and 24 through 30.
2011- 1-18-  Contract for the County Attorney; re- appointing Richard R. Fox.
III   2011
2012- 1-18-  Contract for the County Attorney; re- appointing Richard R. Fox.
III   2012
2016- 1-19-  Changing the name of State Road 111 to Grant Line Road, following an agreement
2     2016   to transfer the ownership and responsibility of said road to the county.
2019- 11-4-  Inter-local cooperation agreement between the Board of Commissioners and the
26    2019   Department of Parks and Recreation.
            
 
TABLE IV:  REAL ESTATE
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             1-23-2014   Agreement granting certain real estate to Christopher
                          Didelot and Chad Didelot.
                          Agreement granting certain real estate to Donald J.
-             1-15-2015   Didelot, Patricia C. King, David E. Didelot, Joseph
                          M. Diedlot, Mary A. Moberly, Francis A. Didelot, and
                          William P. Didelot.
                          Authorizing the sale of real estate to abutting
                          landowners; accepting the offer of said abutting
2019-20       8-20-2019   landowners of the purchase price for the property;
                          and directing the issuance of a deed to the abutting
                          landowners.
                         
 
TABLE V:  EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2020-07       3-31-2020   Creating an economic stabilization and recovery
                          program in relation to the COVID-19 outbreak.
2021-12       7-6-2021    Establishing the County American Rescue Plan
                          Implementation Plan Guidance Plan.
2021-13       8-3-2021    Amendment; American Rescue Plan Implementation Plan.
2021-16       9-7-2021    Amendment; American Rescue Plan Implementation Plan.
2021-19       10-19-2021  Amendment; American Rescue Plan Implementation Plan.
2021-24       12-7-2021   Amendment; American Rescue Plan Implementation Plan.
2021-31       12-21-2021  Amendment; American Rescue Plan Implementation Plan.
2021-32       12-21-2021  Administration of CARES Act funding.
                         
 
TABLE VI:  FUNDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. Date      Description
No.       Passed
2008-X    - -       Cumulative Firefighting Building and Equipment Fund.
2015-XII  - -       Special Vehicle and Equipment Fund.
Res.      5-5-1969  Cumulative Bridge Fund.
1969-70
77-2      6-6-1977  Special Funds Board of Managers.
1987-4    9-19-1987 Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund.
1987-7    10-5-1987 County Corrections Fund.
1989-I    1-17-1989 County Corrections Fund.
90-I      1-16-1990 County Corrections Fund.
91-I      2-19-1991 County Corrections Fund.
6         9-17-1991 Landowner’s Liability and Contingency Fund.
92-1      2-3-1992  County Corrections Fund.
93-1      1-19-1993 County Corrections Fund.
94-1      2-1-1994  County Corrections Fund.
1994-VII  10-4-1994 Wilson Switch Road Basic Maintenance Fund.
1994-IX   12-6-1994 Amending Ord. 6.
95-I      1-3-1995  County Corrections Fund.
96-I      1-2-1996  County Corrections Fund.
97-I      1-7-1997  County Corrections Fund.
98-1      1-6-1998  County Corrections Fund.
1998-VII  7-7-1998  Animal Shelter Project Fund.
99-I      1-5-1999  County Corrections Fund.
1999-III  4-6-1999  Riverboat Fund.
1999-IV   5-18-1999 Drug-Testing Program Fund.
1999-V    5-28-1999 Voting Machine Fund.
2000-I    1-4-2000  County Corrections Fund.
2001-I    1-2-2001  County Corrections Fund.
2002-1    1-2-2002  County Corrections Fund.
2002-XIV  9-17-2002 Animal Control Authority Shelter Fund.
2003-I    1-1-2003  County Corrections Fund.
2003-IV   1-21-2003 Drug-Testing Program Fund.
2003-XI   4-1-2003  Unpaid Bank Check Fund.
2003-XVII 5-7-2003  County Court Monitoring Fund.
2003-     5-7-2003  County Court Community Service Fund.
XVIII
2003-XIX  5-7-2003  County Sheriff Local Law Enforcement Block Grant Fund.
2003-XXXV 12-16-    Women’s, Infant’s, and Children’s Nutrition Education Fund.
          2003
2004-I    1-6-2004  County Corrections Fund.
2004-IV   2-3-2004  Emergency Management FFY03 Part One Fund.
2004-V    2-3-2004  Rainy Day Fund.
2004-VI   2-3-2004  County Law Enforcement Block Grant Fund.
2004-XII  4-20-2004 County Juvenile Evaluation Fund.
2005-I    1-4-2005  County Corrections Fund.
2005-XV   5-3-2005  Summer Intern Administration Fund.
2005-XVI  5-17-2005 Surface and Stormwater Administration Fund.
2005-XVII 5-17-2005 Surface and Stormwater Administration Fund.
2005-XXV  9-20-2005 County Prosecutor Drug Investigation Fund.
2005-XXVI 10-4-2005 Identification Security Protection Fund.
2005-     10-4-2005 Mortgage Recording Fee Fund.
XXVII
2005-     11-1-2005 Department of Justice Grant Fund.
XXVIII
2005-XXIX 12-6-2005 Identification Security Protection Fund.
2006-I    1-5-2006  County Corrections Fund.
2007-I    1-4-2007  County Corrections Fund.
2007-II   2-6-2007  Plan Commission Major Thoroughfare Study Fund.
2007-XIX  10-16-    Community Redevelopment Fund.
          2007
2007-XXI  12-18-    Cumulative Firefighting Building and Equipment Fund.
          2007
2008-I    1-2-2008  County Corrections Fund.
2008-XIII 12-16-    Landowner’s Liability and Contingency Fund.
          2008
2009-I    1-6-2009  County Corrections Fund.
2009-VII  8-18-2009 Worker’s Compensation Fund.
2009-VIII 8-18-2009 Highway Reconstruction Fund.
2010-I    1-5-2010  County Corrections Fund.
2011-I    1-4-2011  County Corrections Fund.
2011-VIII 7-19-2011 County Elected Officials Training Fund.
2012-I    1-3-2012  County Corrections Fund.
2017-5    2-7-2012  Charitable Proceeds Trust Fund.
2012-XVI  12-18-    County Parks and Recreation Non- Reverting Program Fund.
          2012
2013-I    1-2-2013  County Corrections Fund.
2013-V(A) 3-7-2013  Establishing procedures for requesting funds from 911.
2013-XIX  12-17-    Community Redevelopment Fund.
          2013
2014-XI   12-2-2014 Economic Development Revolving Load Fund.
2015-I    1-6-2015  County Corrections Fund.
2015-II   2-3-2015  Subdivision Infrastructure Development Non-Reverting Fund.
2015-V    3-3-2015  Scenic Valley CDBG Construction Fund.
2015-IX   8-18-2015 Community Intellectual Disability Provider and Community
                    Mental Health Provider funding.
2016-8    1-4-2016  LOIT 2016 Special Distribution Fund.
2016-9    5-4-2016  LOIT Special Distribution Fund 1229.
2016-18-A 6-6-2016  County Elections Fund.
2016-10   6-21-2016 Court Recidivism Reduction Fund.
2016-11   6-21-2016 Department of Corrections Adult Probation Employee Grant
                    Fund.
2016-12   6-21-2016 Highlander Point-Edwardsville Gateway Tax Increment Finance
                    District Fund.
2016-16   8-16-2016 Renaming Micro-Film Fund to Records Fund.
2016-19   9- -2016  Community Intellectual Disability Provider and Community
                    Mental Health Provider funding.
2016-18   10-18-    Hospital Fund.
          2016
2016-20-A 10-18-    Employee Benefits Special Fund.
          2016
2016-25   11-6-2016 Hospital Fund.
2017-2    1-19-2017 Hospital Proceeds Trust Fund.
2017-3    1-19-2017 Amending Ord. 2016-25.
2017-12   4-18-2017 Prosecutor State Forfeiture Fund.
2017-15   6-20-2017 County Commissioners Grant Fund.
2017-24   11-4-2017 Drug Prosecution Fund 9127.
2017-28   12-19-    County Wellness Program Fund.
          2017
2018-5    6-5-2018  Sheriff-Corrections Readiness for Re- Entry Fund.
2018-8    8-7-2018  Legacy Foundation.
2018-9    7-17-2018 Criminal Justice Ctr. Construction Fund.
2018-11   9-5-2018  LIT-Jail Fund.
2018-12   9-18-2018 IDOC-Carryover Fund.
2018-17   11-20-    Redevelopment Authority Fund.
          2018
2019-07   3-7-2019  Court Interpreter Grant Fund.
2019-17   8-6-2019  Alternative Dispute Resolution Fund.
2019-18   8-6-2019  Family Recovery Grant Fund.
2019-28   11-4-2019 Dedicating the spend rate from investment from sale of the
                    county hospital to be placed in Fund 9120.
2019-32   11-19-    Hospital Proceeds Fund.
          2019
2019-33   12-17-    Fund 9134 Professional Service; Department of Corrections.
          2019
2020-5    3-3-2020  Kentucky State Tax Fund.
2020-6    3-17-2020 COVID-19 Emergency Fund 9271.
2020-08   6-1-2020  COVID-19 Cares Act Reimbursement Fund.
2020-12   8-18-2020 State Health Department COVID- 19 Response Fund.
2020-15   12-15-    VC Vaccinator Fund 8902.
          2020
2021-2    1-19-2021 Family Court Grant Fund.
2021-3    2-2-2021  VASIA Grant Fund.
2021-5    4-6-2021  Union Dues #5365.
2021-08   4-6-2021  American Rescue Plan Non-Reverting Fund.
2021-09   6-6-2021  Amendment; Capital Improvement Plan, EDIT funds.
2021-10   6-1-2021  Special Clinic #8904.
2021-11   6-1-2021  Children’s Immunizations #8905.
2021-14   8-17-2021 Southern Indiana Tourism Proceeds Fund.
2021-15   8-17-2021 Southern Indiana Tourism Debt Service Fund.
2021-17   10-5-2021 Health Department Insurance Billing Fund #1208.
2021-18   10-19-    Science Technology Engineering Mathematic (STEM) Capital
          2021      Fund.
2021-20   11-16-    IDOC Grant Partners for Alternating Year Fund Management
          2021      Non-Reverting Fund.
2021-21   11-16-    Juvenile Informal Adjustment Fee Fund #2500.
          2021
2021-22   11-16-    State Transportation Fund #7107.
          2021
2021-27   12-7-2021 CESF Grant Fund Non-Reverting Fund.
2021-28   12-7-2021 COVID-19 Crisis Co Ag Workforce Non- Reverting Fund.
2021-29   12-21-    MHMP Grant Fund #8112.
          2021
                   
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                    Code Section
1-1-1-5                      10.04
1-1-1-7                      10.12
1-1-1-8                      10.06
1-1-4-5                      10.05
1-1-5-1                      10.11
1-1-6-1                      10.08
3-11-1.5                     30.03
4-15                         32.09
4-21.5-1-1 through 4-22-10-5 31.06
5-3-1                        34.38
5-11-10                      32.26
5-13-8-1                     34.57
5-14.5-1 et seq.             34.57;
                             36.21
5-14.5-1.5                   111.07
5-22                         32.08;
                             36.08
5-22 et seq.                 36.08
5-22-2 et seq.               36.08
5-22-3-3                     36.08
5-22-8 et seq.               36.08
5-22-10 et seq.              36.08
5-22-11 et seq.              36.08
5-22-12 et seq.              36.08
5-22-15-21                   36.08
6-1.1-5-1                    33.06
6-3.5-7-12.7                 36.05
8-1-32.5-3                   115.01
9-17-2-12                    70.02
9-17-2-12(e)                 70.02
9-21-3-2                     Chapter 71, Schedule III
9-21-5-2(a)(1)               Chapter 71, Schedule I
9-21-5-8                     Chapter 71, Schedule I
10-14-3                      130.05
10-14-3-1 et seq.            35.01;
                             35.02
10-14-3-29                   35.03
10-14-3-29.5(a)(3)           35.03
10-14-3-29.5(c)              35.03
11-8-8-21                    34.23
12-13-5                      111.01
12-15                        111.01
12-29-1                      36.05
12-29-2                      36.05
14-16-1                      70.03
14-16-1-8                    70.03
14-16-1-9                    70.03
14-16-1-9.5                  70.03
14-16-1-11                   70.03
14-21-1-29                   150.02
14-22-11-1                   93.001
14-33-5-20                   152.065
14-33-11                     36.23
15-17-2-26                   93.120
15-17-11-1 et seq.           93.123
15-20-1                      93.038
16-20-1-1 et seq.            91.01
16-20-1-19                   111.07
16-20-1-25(c)                111.06
16-20-1-26                   111.04;
                             111.07
16-20-1-27                   111.03
16-20-2-16                   111.01;
                             113.02
16-20-8-5                    111.05
16-20-8-6                    111.05
16-21-2                      111.01
16-25-11                     111.01
16-41-31                     111.01
16-42-5                      111.01
16-42-5-4                    111.01;
                             111.03
19-1-17.5                    34.01
22-9.5-1 et seq.             90.01
22-9.5-2-2                   90.02
22-9.5-2-3                   90.02
22-9.5-2-4                   90.02
22-9.5-2-8                   90.02
22-9.5-2-9                   90.02
22-9.5-2-11                  90.02
22-9.5-2-13                  90.02
22-9.5-3                     90.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.             90.10
22-9.5-4-1 et seq.           90.02
22-9.5-4-8                   90.11
22-9.5-5                     90.02
22-9.5-5-1                   90.03
22-9.5-6                     90.02;
                             90.11
22-12-1-3                    151.01
23-2-4                       111.01
23-14-57                     150.02
30-2-12                      34.57
31-16                        33.07
31-37-1                      33.07
31-37-2                      33.07
32-29-7                      34.22
32-29-7-3                    34.22
32-29-7-3(h)                 34.22
33-40-6                      33.07
33-40-7                      33.07
33-40-7-5                    33.07
34-28-5 et seq.              130.99
35-31.5-2-75(a)              33.07
35-42-2-1                    92.03
35-42-2-3                    92.03
35-44.1-1-4                  32.08
35-45-1-3                    92.03
35-46-3-15(b)                93.039
35-47-4.5-3 (1) to (20)      130.01
35-50-5-4(c)                 34.37
36-1-3-1                     36.04
36-1-3-6                     70.01;
                             70.02
36-1-3-8(a)(10)              10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)           92.99
36-1-3-8(6)                  36.05
36-1-3-9                     36.04
36-1-7 et seq.               93.001;
                             93.101
36-1-8-2                     36.09
36-1-12                      32.08
36-1-14-5                    34.57
36-1-14-5(f)(3)              34.57
36-1-14-5(f)(4)              34.57
36-1-14-5(h)                 34.57
36-1-14-5(i)(2)              34.57
36-1-14-5(j)(3) et seq.      34.57
36-1-14-5(j)(4)              34.57
36-1-14-5(j)(5)              34.57
36-1-14-5(j)(6)              34.57
36-1-14-5(j)(6)(A)           34.57
36-1-14-5(j)(8)              34.57
36-1-14-5(m)                 34.57
36-1-20.2-1                  32.08
36-1-21                      34.57
36-2-2-4                     30.03
36-2-6-4.5                   36.05
36-2-7-10(b)(11)             36.03
36-2-7-10(c)                 36.03
36-2-9-18                    36.06
36-2-9-18(d)                 36.06
36-2-13-15                   34.37
36-2-13-15(d)                34.37
36-2-13-16                   34.37
36-3-4-14(c)(2)              Chapter 71, Schedule II
36-4-8                       32.26
36-5-2-2                     10.15
36-7                         10.05
36-7-4-401 et seq.           10.05
36-7-9-1                     151.01
36-7-9-3                     151.01
36-7-9-4                     151.01
36-7-9-5                     151.01
36-7-9-5(a)                  151.01
36-7-9-6                     151.01
36-7-9-8                     151.01
36-7-9-9                     151.01
36-7-9-11                    151.01
36-7-9-12                    151.01
36-7-9-13                    151.01
36-7-9-14                    151.01
36-7-9-16                    151.01
36-7-9-17                    151.01
36-7-9-19                    151.01
36-7-9-22                    151.01
36-7-9-25                    151.01
36-7-9-27                    151.01
36-7-9-28                    151.01
36-7-14                      33.04
36-7-14.5-7                  33.03
36-8-10-16.5                 34.06
36-8-11-4                    36.20
36-8-11-12                   36.20
36-8-11-13                   36.20
36-8-11-15                   36.20
36-8-11-16                   36.22
36-8-11-17                   36.23
36-8-11-18                   36.24
36-8-11-19                   36.25
36-8-11-20                   36.26
36-8-11-26                   36.27
36-8-11-27                   36.28
36-8-12                      36.20
36-8-13                      36.20;
                             36.21
36-8-13-4                    36.21
36-9-13                      33.02
                             
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
2008-X      - -         TSO Table VI
2009-X      - -         34.22
2012-II     - -         35.03
2012-XIV    - -         151.01;
                        151.99
2015-XII    - -         TSO Table VI
2018-8      - -         34.57
XXIV        6-3-        Chapter 71, Schedule III
2002-X      7-2-        Chapter 71, Schedule III
2016-21     9-6-        TSO Table I
-XV         12-5-       Chapter 71, Schedule III
65-1        1-8-1965    TSO Table I
66-4        4-4-1966    32.09
1967-2      9-4-1967    51.15 -
                        51.19
71-1        7-17-1971   TSO Table I
74-I        6-3-1974    31.01 -
                        31.06
77-2        6-6-1977    TSO Table VI
77-3        6-6-1977    51.17
79-I-1979   3-5-1979    34.01
82-4        8-21-1982   36.01
85-1        2-4-1985    33.01
85-2        3-4-1985    33.01
85-3        4-17-2985   33.01
1986-4      9-20-1986   Chapter 71, Schedule I
87-1        7-18-1987   36.04
1987-4      9-19-1987   TSO Table VI
5           10-5-1987   TSO Table I
1987-7      10-5-1987   TSO Table VI
88-2        8-2-1988    TSO Table II
1989-I      1-17-1989   TSO Table VI
                        153.30;
89-4        12-19-1989  153.31;
                        153.99
90-I        1-16-1990   TSO Table VI
90-3        3-5-1990    TSO Table II
90-4        5-7-1990    TSO Table II
90-5        6-19-1990   TSO Table II
7           9-18-1990   TSO Table II
91-I        2-19-1991   TSO Table VI
1991-4      6-1-1991    50.01;
                        50.99
6           9-17-1991   TSO Table VI
92-1        2-3-1992    TSO Table VI
92-2        4-21-1992   TSO Table III
1992-8      12-15-1992  36.02
93-1        1-19-1993   TSO Table VI
1993-6      12-6-1993   Chapter 71, Schedule I
1993-7      12-7-1993   36.05
94-1        2-1-1994    TSO Table VI
1994-VII    10-4-1994   TSO Table VI
1994-IX     12-6-1994   TSO Table VI
1994-XI     12-6-1994   34.09
95-I        1-3-1995    TSO Table VI
1995-5      4-18-1995   33.01
96-I        1-2-1996    TSO Table VI
1996-VII    9-17-1996   TSO Table II
96-8        11-19-1996  33.07
96-XII      12-10-1996  34.02
97-I        1-7-1997    TSO Table VI
1997-III    3-4-1997    Chapter 71, Schedule III
1997-IV     4-1-1997    Chapter 71, Schedule III
1997-V      4-1-1997    Chapter 71, Schedule III
1997-VI     5-6-1997    36.03
1997-IX     9-2-1997    TSO Table II
98-1        1-6-1998    TSO Table VI
1998-V      6-16-1998   36.08
1998-VI     6-16-1998   36.08
1998-VII    7-7-1998    TSO Table VI
1998-XI     11-17-1998  Chapter 71, Schedule I
1998-XIII   12-15-1998  Chapter 71, Schedule III
99-I        1-5-1999    TSO Table VI
1999-III    4-6-1999    TSO Table VI
1999-IV     5-18-1999   TSO Table VI
1999-VI     5-18-1999   Chapter 71, Schedule III
1999-V      5-28-1999   TSO Table VI
1999-IX     7-20-1999   TSO Table II
1999-XI     11-16-1999  Chapter 71, Schedule III
1999-XIII   12-12-1999  Chapter 71, Schedule III
2000-I      1-4-2000    TSO Table VI
-V          4-4-2000    Chapter 71, Schedule III
2000-VI     8-1-2000    36.07
2000-VII    8-15-2000   Chapter 71, Schedule III
2000-XIII   11-21-2000  130.01;
                        130.99
2001-I      1-2-2001    TSO Table VI
2001-II     2-20-2001   70.02
2001-VI     4-3-2001    TSO Table II
2001-XIII   8-7-2001    Chapter 71, Schedule III
-XIV        8-7-2001    Chapter 71, Schedule III
2001-XVI    8-21-2001   32.05
XVII        8-21-2001   51.17
2001-XVIII  8-21-2001   TSO Table II
2002-1      1-2-2002    TSO Table VI
2002-II     1-2-2002    Chapter 71, Schedule III
2002-IV     5-8-2002    36.06
2002-VI     5-8-2002    34.36
2002-XIV    9-17-2002   TSO Table VI
2003-I      1-1-2003    TSO Table VI
2003-IV     1-21-2003   TSO Table VI
2003-V      2-4-2003    TSO Table II
2003-VI     2-4-2003    Chapter 71, Schedule III
2003-XI     4-1-2003    TSO Table VI
2003-XIII   4-15-2003   35.02
2003-XVII   5-7-2003    TSO Table VI
2003-XVIII  5-7-2003    TSO Table VI
2003-XIX    5-7-2003    TSO Table VI
2003-XXII   5-27-2003   10.11
2003-XXVI   8-19-2003   35.02
2003-XXVII  8-19-2003   130.05;
                        130.99
2003-XXX    8-19-2003   34.21
2003-XXXII  9-16-2003   Chapter 71, Schedule III
2003-XXXV   12-16-2003  TSO Table VI
2004-X      - -2004     Chapter 71, Schedule III
2004-I      1-6-2004    TSO Table VI
2004-IV     2-3-2004    TSO Table VI
2004-V      2-3-2004    TSO Table VI
2004-VI     2-3-2004    TSO Table VI
2004-XII    4-20-2004   TSO Table VI
XXIX        12-7-2004   TSO Table II
2005-I      1-4-2005    TSO Table VI
2005-X      3-15-2005   33.01
2005-XV     5-3-2005    TSO Table VI
2005-XVI    5-17-2005   TSO Table VI
2005-XVII   5-17-2005   TSO Table VI
2005-XX     5-17-2005   TSO Table II
2005-XXI    5-17-2005   TSO Table II
2005-XXV    9-20-2005   TSO Table VI
2005-XXVI   10-4-2005   TSO Table VI
2005-XXVII  10-4-2005   TSO Table VI
2005-XXVIII 11-1-2005   TSO Table VI
2005-XXIX   12-6-2005   TSO Table VI
2006-I      1-5-2006    TSO Table VI
2006-V      5-3-2006    155.01
2006-VI     6-24-2006   155.01
-VII        7-5-2006    Chapter 71, Schedule III
2006-VIII   9-5-2006    30.01
2006-IX     9-19-2006   Chapter 71, Schedule III
X           10-17-2006  TSO Table II
2006-XII    10-17-2006  TSO Table II
XI          11-21-2006  TSO Table II
2006-XIII   12-19-2006  TSO Table II
2007-I      1-4-2007    TSO Table VI
2007-II     2-6-2007    TSO Table VI
2007-IV     3-6-2007    Chapter 71, Schedule III
2007-X      5-15-2007   TSO Table II
                        114.01;
                        114.02;
2007-XI     6-19-2007   114.15 -
                        114.25;
                        114.40 -
                        114.47
2007-XII    6-19-2007   Chapter 71, Schedule III
XIII        6-19-2007   36.02
-           6-19-2007   TSO Table III
2009-XII    9-15-2007   Chapter 71, Schedule III
2007-XV     10-2-2007   34.38
2007-XIX    10-16-2007  TSO Table VI
2007-XX     11-7-2007   70.03;
                        70.99
2007-XXI    12-18-2007  TSO Table VI
2008-I      1-2-2008    TSO Table VI
2008-II     2-5-2008    TSO Table II
2008-III    2-19-2008   Chapter 71, Schedule III
2008-VI     4-1-2008    70.01
2008-V      4-15-2008   111.01 -
                        111.08
2008-VII    5-7-2008    Chapter 72, Schedule I
2008-VIII   6-17-2008   Chapter 71, Schedule III
2008-XI     8-5-2008    TSO Table II
2008-XII    8-5-2008    TSO Table II
2008-XIII   12-16-2008  TSO Table VI
2009-I      1-6-2009    TSO Table VI
2009-II     3-3-2009    34.08
2009-III    3-17-2009   91.01
IV          6-2-2009    34.07
2009-VI     8-18-2009   34.23
2009-VII    8-18-2009   TSO Table VI
2009-VIII   8-18-2009   TSO Table VI
IX          9-1-2009    34.37
2009-XIII   12-1-2009   130.04;
                        130.99
2009-XV     12-1-2009   TSO Table II
2010-I      1-5-2010    TSO Table VI
                        153.15 -
2010-III    2-2-2010    153.19;
                        153.99
2010-IV     2-2-2010    153.01;
                        153.99
2010-VI     2-2-2010    154.01
2010-XI     4-20-2010   93.120 -
                        93.123
2010-XII    4-20-2010   51.01
2010-XVII   6-15-2010   93.121
2010-XV     7-1-2010    34.24
2010-XVIII  7-6-2010    153.18
2010-XXI    7-20-2010   TSO Table II
2010-XIX    7-20-2010   34.20
-           9-27-2010   TSO Table III
2010-XXIV   10-19-2010  TSO Table I
2010-XXIII  10-19-2010  TSO Table II
2010-XXV    12-21-2010  130.06;
                        130.99
2011-IV     - -2011     111.06
2011-I      1-4-2011    TSO Table VI
2011-II     1-4-2011    155.01
2011-III    1-18-2011   TSO Table III
2011-V      3-15-2011   130.02
2011-VI     3-15-2011   34.04
2011-VII    6-7-2011    TSO Table II
2011-VIII   7-19-2011   TSO Table VI
2011-X      7-19-2011   Chapter 71, Schedule I
2011-XII    8- -2011    TSO Table I
2011-XI     8-2-2011    155.01
                        113.01;
                        113.02;
                        113.15 -
                        113.20;
2011-XIII   9-6-2011    113.35 -
                        113.44;
                        113.55 -
                        113.61;
                        113.99
2011-XIV    9-20-2011   TSO Table II
2012-I      1-3-2012    TSO Table VI
2012-III    1-18-2012   TSO Table III
2017-5      2-7-2012    TSO Table VI
2012-IV     2-14-2012   32.02
                        112.01 -
2012-VII    4-3-2012    112.04;
                        112.99
                        110.01 -
2012-VI     4-3-2012    110.06;
                        110.99
2012-VIII   6-19-2012   32.08
2012-IX     9-4-2012    TSO Table I
2012-XI     10-16-2012  155.01
2012-XVI    12-18-2012  TSO Table VI
2013-I      1-2-2013    TSO Table VI
2013-V(A)   3-7-2013    TSO Table VI
2013-V      3-19-2013   35.01
2013-VI     6-4-2013    155.01;
                        TSO Table I
2013-VII    6-18-2013   32.06
2013-VIII   6-18-2013   32.02
2013-IX     7-2-2013    TSO Table II
2013-X      8-6-2013    30.03
2013-XI     8-6-2013    150.02
2013-XII    8-20-2013   33.04
2013-XIV    10-15-2013  155.01
2013-XVI    11-17-2013  32.04
2013-XVIII  12-17-2013  33.04
2013-XIX    12-17-2013  TSO Table VI
-           1-23-2014   TSO Table IV
2014-III    4-1-2014    155.01
                        90.01 -
2014-IV     4-15-2014   90.11;
                        90.99
2014-VI     5-7-2014    155.02
VII         5-20-2014   34.05
2014-IX     7-15-2014   Chapter 71, Schedule III
2014-XII    10-24-2014  30.03
2014-XI     12-2-2014   TSO Table VI
2014-XIII   12-2-2014   155.01
2014-XV     12-9-2014   34.03
2015-I      1-6-2015    TSO Table VI
-           1-15-2015   TSO Table IV
2015-II     2-3-2015    TSO Table VI
2015-III    3-3-2015    TSO Table II
2015-IV     3-3-2015    33.06
2015-V      3-3-2015    TSO Table VI
2015-VI     3-3-2015    36.09
2015-VII    4-7-2015    111.03
2015-VIII   7-7-2015    36.02
2015-IX     8-18-2015   TSO Table VI
2015-XI     10-20-2015  TSO Table II
                        93.001 -
                        93.005;
                        93.020 -
                        93.022;
                        93.035 -
                        93.040;
2015-14     12-1-2015   93.055 -
                        93.060;
                        93.075 -
                        93.082;
                        93.095 -
                        93.105;
                        93.999
2015-16     12-15-2015  93.005
2015-17     12-15-2015  34.35
2016-8      1-4-2016    TSO Table VI
2016-2      1-19-2016   TSO Table III
2016-3      3-1-2016    36.05
2016-6      3-1-2016    Chapter 71, Schedule III
2019-11     4-16-2016   115.01 -
                        115.03
2016-7      4-19-2016   TSO Table I
2016-9      5-4-2016    TSO Table VI
2016-18-A   6-6-2016    TSO Table VI
2016-10     6-21-2016   TSO Table VI
2016-11     6-21-2016   TSO Table VI
2016-12     6-21-2016   TSO Table VI
2016-13     6-21-2016   33.05
2016-15     7-5-2016    TSO Table II
2016-16     8-16-2016   TSO Table VI
2016-17     8-16-2016   34.06
2016-19     9- -2016    TSO Table VI
2016-14     9-20-2016   30.02
2016-18     10-18-2016  TSO Table VI
2016-20-A   10-18-2016  TSO Table VI
2016-25     11-6-2016   TSO Table VI
2016-23     11-15-2016  32.07
2017-2      1-19-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-3      1-19-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-8      3-7-2017    TSO Table I
2017-9      3-7-2017    TSO Table I
2017-7      3-21-2017   93.001
2017-11     4-4-2017    32.01
2017-12     4-18-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-13     4-18-2017   155.01
2017-15     6-20-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-18     9-5-2017    TSO Table I
2017-19     9-5-2017    TSO Table I
2017-22     10-17-2017  155.01
2017-24     11-4-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-26     12-19-2017  155.01
2017-28     12-19-2017  TSO Table VI
2018-1      1-2-2018    151.01
2018-3      2-6-2018    155.01
2018-5      6-5-2018    TSO Table VI
2018-7      7-3-2018    TSO Table I
2018-8      8-7-2018    TSO Table VI
2018-9      7-17-2018   TSO Table VI
2018-10     8-7-2018    33.03
2018-11     9-5-2018    TSO Table VI
2018-12     9-18-2018   TSO Table VI
2018-13     9-18-2018   34.39
2018-15     10-16-2018  32.03
2018-16     10-16-2018  32.04
2018-17     11-20-2018  TSO Table VI
2018-14     12-12-2018  TSO Table I
2018-19     12-12-2018  Chapter 71, Schedule II
2019-5      2- -2019    32.40
2019-2      2-5-2019    32.25
2019-3      2-5-2019    32.02
2019-07     3-7-2019    TSO Table VI
2019-08     4- -2019    32.02
2019-09     4-16-2019   TSO Table II
2019-12     4-23-2019   36.20 -
                        36.28
2019-15     7-2-2019    TSO Table I
2019-16     7-6-2019    TSO Table II
2019-17     8-6-2019    TSO Table VI
2019-18     8-6-2019    TSO Table VI
2019-19     8-6-2019    34.56
2019-20     8-20-2019   TSO Table IV
-           9-17-2019   154.01
                        152.001 -
                        152.011;
                        152.025 -
                        152.032;
2019-25     10-15-2019  152.045 -
                        152.054;
                        152.065 -
                        152.072;
                        152.999
2019-26     11-4-2019   TSO Table III
2019-28     11-4-2019   TSO Table VI
2019-32     11-19-2019  TSO Table VI
2019-36     12- -2019   TSO Table II
2019-33     12-17-2019  TSO Table VI
2020-01     2-18-2020   32.26
2020-2      2-18-2020   34.55;
                        35.02
2020-3      3-3-2020    TSO Table I
2020-04     3-3-2020    TSO Table II
2020-5      3-3-2020    TSO Table VI
2020-6      3-17-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-07     3-31-2020   TSO Table V
2020-08     6-1-2020    TSO Table VI
2020-11     8-4-2020    Chapter 71, Schedule III
2020-12     8-18-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-13     9-1-2020    TSO Table I
2020-15     12-15-2020  TSO Table VI
                        92.01 -
2021-1      1-19-2021   92.11;
                        92.99
2021-2      1-19-2021   TSO Table VI
2021-3      2-2-2021    TSO Table VI
2021-4      3-2-2021    155.01
2021-5      4-6-2021    TSO Table VI
2021-6      4-6-2021    TSO Table I
2021-08     4-6-2021    TSO Table VI
2021-09     6-6-2021    TSO Table VI
2021-10     6-1-2021    TSO Table VI
2021-11     6-1-2021    TSO Table VI
2021-12     7-6-2021    TSO Table V
2021-13     8-3-2021    TSO Table V
2021-14     8-17-2021   TSO Table VI
2021-15     8-17-2021   TSO Table VI
2021-16     9-7-2021    TSO Table V
2021-17     10-5-2021   TSO Table VI
2021-18     10-19-2021  TSO Table VI
2021-19     10-19-2021  TSO Table V
2021-20     11-16-2021  TSO Table VI
2021-21     11-16-2021  TSO Table VI
2021-22     11-16-2021  TSO Table VI
2021-23     11-16-2021  32.02
2021-24     12-7-2021   TSO Table V
2021-25     12-7-2021   30.03
2021-27     12-7-2021   TSO Table VI
2021-28     12-7-2021   TSO Table VI
2021-29     12-21-2021  TSO Table VI
2021-31     12-21-2021  TSO Table V
2021-32     12-21-2021  TSO Table V
                       
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
53-3     - -1953     33.02
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
53-3     - -1953     33.02
53-4     - -1953     34.40
1969-70  5-5-1969    TSO Table VI
2010-V   2-2-2010    155.01
2010-IX  3-16-2010   155.01
-        2-27-2012   155.01
2012-V   3-6-2012    155.01
-        12-19-2016  TSO Table I
-        12-19-2016  TSO Table I
                    
 
