FORTVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-12C, passed 1-3-23; and
State legislation current through 2023 ALS Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance 2003-10B
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF FORTVILLE,
INDIANA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF FORTVILLE DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of
Fortville are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Town of Fortville to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Fortville has authorized a general
compilation, revision, codification of the ordinances of the Town of Fortville
of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FORTVILLE:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Fortville as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Fortville,
Indiana."
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following Titles: (Attachment as Exhibit A)
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of
Fortville is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Fortville on this 14th
day of October, 2003.
   Phillip Scrogham /s/
   Council President, Phillip Scrogham
   Terry Treon /s/
   Council Member, Terry Treon
   Marvin Terrell /s/
   Council Member, Marvin Terrell
   Toy L. Simmons /s/
   Council Member, Toy Simmons
                                                   
   Council Member, Ernest V. Oden
Attest:
Margie I. Manship /s/
Clerk, Margie I. Manship
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-5B
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   FOR THE TOWN OF FORTVILLE, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the second supplement to the code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fortville, Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Fortville, Indiana; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FORTVILLE,
INDIANA:
   SECTION I
   THAT the second supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fortville, Indiana as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   THAT such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of Fortville is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   SECTION III
   THAT ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   SECTION IV
   Introduced and filed on the  18  day of  May , 2009. A motion to consider on
first reading on the day of introduction was offered and sustained by a vote of
5  in favor and  0  opposed pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-9.8.
   RE: ORDINANCE NO. 2009-5B
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE TOWN OF FORTVILLE, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   Duly ordained and passed this  18  day of  May , 2009 by the Town Council of
the Town of Fortville, Hancock County, Indiana, having been passed by a vote of
5  in favor and  0  opposed.
TOWN OF FORTVILLE, INDIANA, BY ITS TOWN COUNCIL
 
Voting Affirmative:                                                                                  Voting Opposed:
                                                                                                     
/S/ SEAN SIMMONS                                                                                                                    
SEAN SIMMONS                                                                                         SEAN SIMMONS
                                                                                                     
 /S/ PHILLIP SCROGHAM PHILLIP SCROGHAM                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                     PHILLIP SCROGHAM
                                                                                                     
/S/ TAMMY GILBERT  TAMMY GILBERT                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                     TAMMY GILBERT
                                                                                                     
 /S/ JEFF RATLIFF  JEFF RATLIFF                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                     JEFF RATLIFF
                                                                                                     
/S/ RONALD STAFFORD                                                                                                                           
RONALD STAFFORD                                                                                      RONALD STAFFORD
 
ATTEST:
/S/ BOYD MITCHELL
BOYD MITCHELL
CLERK TREASURER
This instrument was prepared by CYNTHIA MITCHELL, Deputy Clerk, 714 E.
Broadway, Fortville, IN 46040
Ordinance # 2013-7D
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   FOR THE TOWN OF FORTVILLE, INDIANA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the third supplement to the code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fortville, Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Fortville, Indiana; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Fortville Town Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect upon its
passage.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FORTVILLE,
INDIANA,
   SECTION I
   That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Fortville,
Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   Duly ordained and passed this 5th day of August, 2013, by the Town Council
of the Town of Fortville, Hancock County, Indiana, having been passed by a vote
of 4 in favor and 0 opposed.
[Signature Page Follows]
TOWN OF FORTVILLE, INDIANA, BY ITS TOWN COUNCIL
 
Voting Affirmative:                                                                                                                                  Voting Opposed:
                                                                                                                                                     
/S/ RON STAFFORD                                                                                                                                                                                                              
RON STAFFORD                                                                                                                                         RON STAFFORD
                                                                                                                                                     
/S/ BILL HIDAY  BILL HIDAY                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                     BILL HIDAY
                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                    
JANET MANSHIP                                                                                                                                        JANET MANSHIP
                                                                                                                                                     
/S/ NANCY SIZEMORE  NANCY SIZEMORE                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                     NANCY SIZEMORE
                                                                                                                                                     
/S/ ROBERT HOLLAND                                                                                                                                                                           
ROBERT HOLLAND                                                                                                                                       ROBERT HOLLAND
 
ATTEST:
/S/ MARCIE STAFFORD
MARCIE STAFFORD
CLERK-TREASURER
 
Ordinance # 2018-2B
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE
   CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF FORTVILLE, INDIANA
   RECITALS
   1.   American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Fortville Town Code ("Code") , which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code.
   2.   American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code which are based on or make reference
to sections of the Indiana code.
   3.   It is the intent of the Fortville Town Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with Indiana law.
   4.   It is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect upon its
passage.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Fortville Town Council as follows:
   SECTION 1. The supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Fortville Town Council and the Fortville Clerk-
Treasurer is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   SECTION 3. If any provision in this Ordinance is declared invalid, the
remaining provisions of the Ordinance shall remain in full force and effect.
   SECTION 4. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon passage and
publication as required by law.
[Signature Page Follows]
Introduced and filed on the 20th day of February, 2018.
Duly ordained and passed this 5th day or March, 2018 by the Town Council of the
Town of Fortville, Hancock County, Indiana, having been passed by a vote of 4
in favor and 0 opposed.
TOWN OF FORTVILLE, INDIANA, BY ITS TOWN COUNCIL
 
Voting Affirmative:                                                                                                                                Voting Opposed:
                                                                                                                                                   
/s/ Michael Frischkorn  Michael Frischkorn, President                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                   Michael Frischkorn
                                                                                                                                                   
/s/ Robert Holland  Robert Holland                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                   Robert Holland
                                                                                                                                                   
/s/ Robert Sterrett  Robert Sterrett                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                  Robert Sterrett
                                                                                                                                                   
 /s/ Timothy Hexamer                                                                                                                                                            
Tim Hexamer                                                                                                                                        Tim Hexamer
                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                   
Lenzy Hendrix                                                                                                                                      Lenzy Hendrix
 
ATTEST:
/s/ Melissa Glazier
Melissa Glazier
Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Fortville
Town Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified Ordinances”
or “Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of such persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving such authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Hancock County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.    
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of the Town of Fortville, Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The Town of Fortville, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of an ordinance stating that the provisions of an ordinance
are severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation
of division (B) with respect to that ordinance.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then such named board,
bureau, commission, department, division,
officer, agency, authority or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the
ordinance at its effective date or not, means that correctly named entity, or
the entity to which such duties, liabilities, powers, and rights were
transferred. (I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
such section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. Such section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture,
or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-
14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
11.01   Fee schedule
   
11.02   Penalty schedules
§ 11.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fees are hereby established to be impose and collected by the
departments associated with the activities set forth hereafter.
   (A)   Schedule I.
Department Activity/License/Materials Fee
Department Activity/License/Materials                                             Fee
           Reports                                                                $5 per
                                                                                  report
           Court Notary Service                                                   $5 per
                                                                                  document
           Vehicle Title Inspection (VIN check)                                   $5 per title
           Criminal history/background check (local)                              $10 per
                                                                                  report
           Copies of photographs                                                  $10 per 1-10
                                                                                  photos
           DVD or digital video copy                                              $15 per file
                                                                                  $15 (2
Police                                                                            cards) or $5
           Fingerprint service                                                    per each
                                                                                  additional
                                                                                  card
                                                                                  $12 per
           Accident/ crash report                                                 report or
                                                                                  buycrash.com
           Vehicle release (general)                                              $20
           Vehicle release (drugs found in car)                                   $300
           Vehicle release (drugs and guns found in car)                          $500
           Animal trap deposit                                                    $30
           Gun permit                                                             –
Street     Permit for driveway cut                                                $50
           Permit for excavation in right-of-way                                  $50
                                                                                  $0.10 per
                                                                                  page (black
General    Photocopies                                                            and white)
                                                                                  or $0.25 per
                                                                                  page (color)
                                                                                  $20 per
Utility    MS4 and other utility-specific instruction                             person per
                                                                                  class
Public     Trash collection                                                       $14.05 per
Works                                                                             month (2023)
                                                                                  (Monday-
                                                                                  Thursday)
                                                                                  $25.00/hr. +
                                                                                  tax with
                                                                                  $100.00
                                                                                  deposit
                                                                                  (Monday-
                                                                                  Thursday)
                                                                                  $100.00/all
                                                                                  day* + tax
                                                                                  with $100.00
                                                                                  deposit
           Shelter House                                                          (Friday-
                                                                                  Sunday/
                                                                                  Holidays)
                                                                                  $50.00/hr. +
                                                                                  tax with
                                                                                  $100.00
                                                                                  deposit
                                                                                  (Friday-
                                                                                  Sunday/
                                                                                  Holidays)
                                                                                  $150.00/All
                                                                                  Day + tax
                                                                                  with $100.00
                                                                                  deposit
                                                                                  $35.00/hr. +
                                                                                  tax with
                                                                                  $100.00
                                                                                  deposit
           Room B of Fortville Community Center (without kitchen)                 $125.00/4-
                                                                                  hr. block +
                                                                                  tax with
                                                                                  $100.00
                                                                                  deposit
                                                                                  $60.00/hr. +
                                                                                  tax with
                                                                                  $100.00
                                                                                  deposit
           Room B of Fortville Community Center (with kitchen)                    $200.00/4-
                                                                                  hr. block +
                                                                                  tax with
                                                                                  $100.00
                                                                                  deposit
                                                                                  $50.00/hr. +
Parks                                                                             tax with
                                                                                  $100.00
                                                                                  deposit
                                                                                  $175.00/4-
                                                                                  hr. block +
           Gymnasium of Fortville Community Center                                tax with
                                                                                  $100.00
                                                                                  deposit
                                                                                  $350.00/All
                                                                                  Day* + tax
                                                                                  with $200.00
                                                                                  deposit
                                                                                  $75.00/hr. +
                                                                                  tax with
                                                                                  $125.00
                                                                                  deposit
                                                                                  $250.00/4-
                                                                                  hr. block +
           Gymnasium of Fortville Community Center (with kitchen)                 tax with
                                                                                  $125.00
                                                                                  deposit
                                                                                  $500.00/All
                                                                                  Day* + tax
                                                                                  with $250.00
                                                                                  deposit
                                                                                  $25.00/field
                                                                                  + tax (2 hr.
                                                                                  block) (w/
           Athletic Fields (Practice) Memorial Park                               o lights)
                                                                                  $50.00/field
                                                                                  + tax (2 hr.
                                                                                  block) (with
                                                                                  lights)
                                                                                  $50.00/field
                                                                                  + tax (per 1
                                                                                  game) (w/
           Athletic Fields (Game) Memorial Park                                   o lights)
                                                                                  $75.00/field
                                                                                  + tax (per 1
                                                                                  game) (with
                                                                                  lights)
                                                                                  $300.00/
                                                                                  field + tax
           Athletic Fields (Tournament) Memorial Park                             (per day)
                                                                                  (with or w/
                                                                                  o lights)
                                                                                  Racer ages
                                                                                  12+: $30
           Fortville 5K                                                           Racer ages
                                                                                  2-11: $10
                                                                                  Racer under
                                                                                  2: Free
                                                                                  Philly
                                                                                  Steak: $12
                                                                                  Italian
                                                                                  Sausages:
                                                                                  $10
                                                                                  Chips: $1
                                                                                  Soda: $1
                                                                                  *Fees
           Kammy’s Kause                                                        subject to
                                                                                  increase due
                                                                                  to increased
                                                                                  food costs -
                                                                                  not more
                                                                                  than 15%
                                                                                  increase
                                                                                  without
                                                                                  Council
                                                                                  approval
                                                                                  One dog:
                                                                                  $40/year
           Memorial Park Dog Park annual membership                               Each
                                                                                  additional
                                                                                  dog: $5/year
           Newport Penguin Show                                                   Free to
           Bongo Drum Circle                                                      Public
Parks      Pints in the Park                                                      Tickets: $10
                                                                                  Parent &
                                                                                  Daughter:
           Princess Tea Party                                                     $25
                                                                                  Additional
                                                                                  Child: $5
                                                                                  Food Vendor:
                                                                                  $140
                                                                                  Food Vendor
                                                                                  w/Electric:
                                                                                  $165
                                                                                  Craft
           Summerfest                                                             Vendor: $75
                                                                                  Craft Vendor
                                                                                  w/Electric:
                                                                                  $90
                                                                                  Local
                                                                                  Churches: No
                                                                                  Charge
                                                                                  Food Vendor:
                                                                                  $100
                                                                                  Food Vendor
                                                                                  w/Electric:
                                                                                  $115
                                                                                  Craft
           Winterfest                                                             Vendor: $60
                                                                                  Craft Vendor
                                                                                  w/ Electric:
                                                                                  $75
                                                                                  Local
                                                                                  Churches: No
                                                                                  Charge
Planning   Easement encroachment permit                                           $40/permit
Planning   Amendment of commitments/covenants                                     $250
Planning   Change of use permit (commercial)                                      $50
                                                                                  $250 +
Planning   Grading permit (at-risk)                                               consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $50 +
Planning   Miscellaneous/other                                                    consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $500 +
Planning   Primary plat —3 lots or less (minor subdivision)                     consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $1,000 +
Planning   Primary plat — More than 3 lots (major subdivision)                  $20/lot +
                                                                                  consultant
                                                                                  fees
Planning   PUD text amendment                                                     $1,000
                                                                                  $500 +
Planning   Replat (minor subdivision)                                             consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $1,000 +
Planning   Replat (major subdivision)                                             $20/lot +
                                                                                  consultant
                                                                                  fees
Planning   Rezone (to all standard zoning districts)                              $750
Planning   Rezone (to PUD)                                                        $2,000
                                                                                  $500 +
Planning   Secondary plat (minor subdivision)                                     consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $1,000 +
Planning   Secondary plat (major subdivision)                                     $20/lot +
                                                                                  consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $50 +
Planning   Sign permit                                                            consultant
                                                                                  fees
Planning   Special exception — Residential, institutional, park                 $200
Planning   Special Exception — Commercial (includes home occupations)           $300
Planning   Special Exception — Industrial, cellular facility                    $400
Planning   Time extension of special exception — Res, inst, park                $100
Planning   Time extension of special exception — Commercial includes home       $150
           occupations
Planning   Time extension of special exception — Ind, cellular                  $200
Planning   Time extension of plat                                                 $250
Planning   Time extension of permit                                               $50
Planning   Time extension of variance — Residential & institutional development $100
           standards, use
Planning   Time extension of variance — Commercial & industrial development     $200
           standards
Planning   Permit re-submission for revision, residential                         $50
Planning   Permit re-submission for revision, non-residential                     $100
                                                                                  $500 +
Planning   Vacation of plat/lot or ROW                                            consultant
                                                                                  fees
Planning   Variance — Residential, institutional, use                           $200
Planning   Variance — Commercial, industrial                                    $400
Planning   Zoning verification letter                                             $50
                                                                                  $50 +
Building   Accessory structure permit                                             consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $200 +
Building   Commercial building permit — Tenant finish, building addition, remodeconsultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $700 +
Building   Commercial building permit — New construction                        $0.02/SF +
                                                                                  consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $50 +
Building   Deck permit                                                            consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $50 +
Building   Electrical permit                                                      consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $50 +
Building   Pool                                                                   consultant
                                                                                  fees
Building   Re-inspections                                                         Consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $700 +
Building   Residential building permit — Single-family                          $0.02/SF +
                                                                                  consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $350 per
Building   Residential building permit — Two-family, multi- family              unit +
                                                                                  consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $50 +
Building   Residential building permit - addition                                 consultant
                                                                                  fees
                                                                                  $50 +
Building   Residential building permit - remodel                                  consultant
                                                                                  fees
Planning/  Returned check charge                                                  $30
Building
Planning/  Unpaid invoices (30+ days from notification)                           10% of total
Building                                                                          invoice
 
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 2018-12A, passed 1-7-19; Am. Ord. 2019-
9E, passed 10-7-19; Am. Ord. 2020-1G, passed 1-6-20; Am. Ord. 2020-1I, passed
2-3-20; Am. Ord. 2022-9A, passed 10-3-22; Am. Ord. 2022-11A, passed 12-5-22)
§ 11.02 PENALTY SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Application. The penalties set forth in this title amend all specific
or general monetary penalty sections of the code only as they relate to the
specific offenses set out in division (B).
   (B)   Schedule of offenses and penalties. The following may be subject to
admission before the Ordinance Violations Bureau as administered by the Town
Court:
                            Penalty
Violation Type Code Section (First Offense/ Second Offense/ Subsequent
                            Offenses)
                                                  Penalty
Violation Type               Code Section         (First Offense/ Second
                                                  Offense/ Subsequent Offenses)
Driving
Exceeding speed limit by 1-  Ch. 72: Schedule I   $65
10 mph over the posted limit
Exceeding speed limit by 11- Ch. 72: Schedule I   $75
20 mph over the posted limit
Exceeding speed limit by 21- Ch. 72: Schedule I   $85
25 mph over the posted limit
Driving wrong direction on   Ch. 72: Schedule II  $50
one way
Exiting from no exit alley   Ch. 72: Schedule III $50
Failure to stop for          Ch. 72: Schedule IV  $100
preferential street
Going around rail road cross §                   $150
arms                         70.18
Not stopping for a school    §
bus when the stop arm or     70.24                $200
sign is extended
Parking
Parking within 15 feet of a  §                   $50/ $75/ $100
hydrant                      71.01
Parking within 20 feet of an §                   $50
intersection                 71.02
Parking in angle spot by     §                   $25
backing in                   71.03
Parking citations, habitual  §                   citation and cost of towing
offense                      71.04
Towing vehicles              §                   citation and cost of towing
                             71.05
Parking non-motorized        §
vehicle for more than 72     71.06(A)             $50/ $100/ $150
hours
Parking properly registered  §                   $50/ $100/ $150
vehicle for over 2 weeks     71.06(B)
Time limitation - 2 hour     §                   $25
parking on Main Street       71.06(C)
Parking over sidewalks or    §
the grassy area between walk 71.06(D)             $50
and curb
Parking on streets with no   §                   $25
curbs                        71.06(E)
                            Penalty
Violation Type Code Section (First Offense/ Second Offense/ Subsequent
                            Offenses)
                                                                 Penalty
                                                                 (First
                                                                 Offense/
Violation Type                                      Code Section Second
                                                                 Offense/
                                                                 Subsequent
                                                                 Offenses)
Parking (Cont’d)
Parking vehicle over 5 tons for over 24-hours       §           $100
                                                    71.07
Proper parking required                             §           $25
                                                    71.08
Parking vehicle over 25 feet on Main Street         Ch. 73:      $50
                                                    Schedule II
Parking vehicle over 2 hours on Main Street         Ch. 73:      $25
                                                    Schedule III
Parking vehicle against the flow of traffic         Ch. 73:      $25
                                                    Schedule IV
Prohibited parkign during certain hours             Ch. 73:      $25
                                                    Schedule V
Park and Recreation
Alcoholic beverages prohibited                      §           $50
                                                    91.03
Exceeding speed limit in the park                   §           $150
                                                    91.04
Exceeding park closing time                         §           $100
                                                    91.05
Camping in park                                     §           $100
                                                    91.06
Permitting domestic animals to run at large         §           $50
                                                    91.07
Use of weapon dangerous to others                   §           $500
                                                    91.08
Traffic
Operation of a non-registered golf cart             §           $100/$150/$200
                                                    74.05(B)(1)
Operation of a golf cart by person under 16         §           $100/$150/$200
                                                    74.05(B)(2)
Operation of a golf cart without a valid driver’s §           $100/$150/$200
license                                             74.05(B)(3)
Operation of a golf cart in a reckless manner       §           $150/$200/$250
                                                    74.05(B)(4)
Operation of a golf cart without insurance          §           $100/$150/$200
                                                    74.05(B)(5)
                            Penalty
Violation Type Code Section (First Offense/ Second Offense/ Subsequent
                            Offenses)
                                                Penalty
Violation Type                     Code Section (First Offense/ Second Offense/
                                                Subsequent Offenses)
Traffic (Cont’d)
Operation of a golf cart without   §           $100/$150/$200
all required equipment             74.05(B)(6)
Operation of a golf cart on        §
Broadway Street or Madison Street, 74.05(B)(7)  $100/$150/$200
except to cross at an intersection
Operation of non-traditional       §           $100/$150/$200
vehicle in town limits             74.05(B)(8)
Traffic Regulations for Mt. Vernon Community School
No vehicle shall be operated       §
across or into any parking sace at 70.23(B)     $50
a speed in excess of 5 mph
No vehicle shall be operated on    §
any other area of school property  70.23(C)     $100
at a speed in excess of 15 mph
Pupils shall only park in student  §
parking areas designated as        70.23(D)     $25
student parking
No person shall recklessly operate §           $100
a motor vehicle on school property 70.23(E)
No pupil shall park any motor
vehicle on school property without §           $25
displaying a valid sticker on the  70.23(F)
vehicle
No person operating a motor
vehicle on school property shall
start a vehicle which is stopped,  §           $50
standing or parked unless and      70.23(G)
until the movement can be made
with reasonable safety
Persons operating a motor vehicle
on school property shall operate   §           $100
the motor vehicle only upon travel 70.23(H)
lanes
All persons operating motor        §
vehicles on school property shall  70.23(I)     $100
stop at all stop signs
                            Penalty
Violation Type Code Section (First Offense/ Second Offense/ Subsequent
                            Offenses)
                                                Penalty
Violation Type                     Code Section (First Offense/ Second Offense/
                                                Subsequent Offenses)
Health and Safety
Open burning                       §           $100
                                   92.01
Noise                              §           $150
                                   92.02
Cutting weeds and rank vegetation  §           $100/$250/$500
                                   92.03
Litter in public places            §           $250
                                   92.16
Litter in public receptacles       §           $250
                                   92.17
Litter in gutter, street or other  §           $250
public places                      92.18
Litter from a vehicle              §           $250
                                   92.19
Littering in parks                 §           $250
                                   92.20
Deposit of handbills               §           $100
                                   92.21
Dropping litter from aircraft      §           $250
                                   92.22
Deposit litter on occupied private §           $250
property                           92.23
Maintenance of litter-free         §           $100
premises                           92.24
Deposit litter on vacant lots      §           $250
                                   92.25
Receptacles                        §           $100
                                   92.26
Unsightly premises                 §           $250
                                   92.27
All vehicle equipment violations   §           $100
                                   92.28
Animals
Dog at large                       §           $25/$50/$100
                                   93.03(A)
Enclosure of animal in heat        §           $25/$50/$100
                                   93.03(B)
Possession of a vicious animal     §           $100/$200/$400
                                   93.03(C)
Annoyance or disturbance created   §           $25/$50/$100
by animal                          93.03(D)
Enclosure of suspected rabid       §           $25/$50/$100
animal                             93.03(E)
Trespassing of animal              §           $25/$50/$100
                                   93.03(G)
                            Penalty
Violation Type Code Section (First Offense/ Second Offense/ Subsequent
                            Offenses)
                                              Penalty
Violation Type                   Code Section (First Offense/ Second Offense/
                                              Subsequent Offenses)
Animals (Cont’d)
Damage or injury to person or    §           $25/$50/$100
property                         93.03(F)
Keeping dangerous reptiles and   §           $250
animals                          93.03(H)
Provision of care to animal      §           $25/$50/$100
                                 93.04(A)
Classification of non-commercial §           $25/$50/$100
kennel                           93.04(B)
Ill treatment of animals         §           $250/$500/$1,000
                                 93.04(C)
Abandonment of animal            §           $25/$50/$100
                                 93.04(D)
Public disposal of poison        §           $500
                                 93.04(E)
Removal of dead animal           §           $25/$50/$100
                                 93.04(F)
Removal of animal waste          §           $25/$50/$100
                                 93.04(G)
Possession of rabid animal       §           $25/$50/$100
                                 93.05
Farm animals prohibited          §           $100/$200/$500
                                 93.20
Noise from animal                §           $25/$50/$100
                                 93.21
Odor from animal                 §           $25/$50/$100
                                 93.22
Failure to claim or redeem       §           $25/$50/$100
impounded animal                 93.35(G)
Streets and Sidewalks
Sign and obstructions            §           §
                                 94.17        10.99/ up to $2,500
Permit required                  §           §
                                 94.30        10.99/ up to $2,500
Horses on public streets         §           $50/$75/$100
                                 70.15
Vehicle weight limits            §           $500
                                 70.16
Stopping, standing or parking    §           $25
violations                       70.17(A)
Sell or solicit on public street §           $250/$500/$1,000
without permit                   70.17(B)
Object other than vehicle placed §           $100
on street                        70.17(C)
Playing in street                §           Warning/$25/$50
                                 70.17(D)
                               Penalty
Violation Type  Code Section (First Offense/ Second Offense/ Subsequent
                               Offenses)
                                               Penalty
Violation Type                 Code Section (First Offense/ Second Offense/
                                               Subsequent Offenses)
Streets and Sidewalks (Cont’d)
Inoperable or unlicensed vehicle  §           $100
on street                         70.17(E)
Working on vehicle on public      §           Warning/$50/$100
street                            70.17(F)
Skateboard and toy vehicle        §           Warning/$25/$50
regulations                       70.19
Business Regulations
Itinerant merchants               §           $250/$500/$1,000
                                  110.20
General Regulations
Parkway maintenance               §           $100/$250/$500
                                  94.61
Alarm system violation - no       §           $50
permit                            97.99(A)
                                               5th false alarm per year - $25
Alarm system violation - false    §           6th false alarm per year - $50
alarm                             97.99(B)(1)  7th and subsequent false alarm
                                               per year - $100
Curfew hours                      §           Warning/$25/$50
                                  130.01
Prohibited activities after hours §           $100
                                  130.02
Land Use
Unsafe buildings                  §           $250
                                  150.02
Utilities
Damage to or obstruction of       §
water, sewer, or storm sewer      50.09(E)     $250
facilities
Obstruction of water meter        §           $250
                                  50.16(I)
Public Works
Non-resident utilizing recycling  §           $250 for first offense and an
containers                        54.05        additional $100 for each
                                               subsequent offense
Placing non-recyclable materials  §           $250 for first offense and an
in recycling containers           54.05        additional $100 for each
                                               subsequent offense
Violation of garbage collection   §§
ordinances                        54.02 and    $100
                                  54.04
 
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 2017-3A, passed 3-20-17; Am. Ord. 2017-
6D, passed 7-3-17; Ord. 2019-9A, passed 9-3-19)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   POLICE AND VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
      
35.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
36.   TOWN COURT
      
37.   IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Five member Council
   
30.02   Council districts
   
30.03   Residency requirements
   
30.04   President
   
30.05   Quorum and votes to pass
   
30.06   Council powers
   
30.07   Ordinances which amend code
   
30.08   Parliamentary procedure
   
30.09   Recording and publishing ordinances
   
30.10   Compensation of Council
§ 30.01 FIVE MEMBER COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council consists of five members.
   (B)   The three candidates who win Council seats with the highest number of
votes in the 1999 Fortville municipal election shall serve a four year term on
the Fortville Town Council beginning at noon on January 1, 2000. The other two
candidates who win Council seats shall serve a three year term and be subject
to re-election in the general election in 2002. In all subsequent elections the
winners of all five Council seats shall serve four year terms.
(Am. Ord. 1992-12B, passed 12-22-92; Am. Ord. 1998-9A, passed 10-13-98)
§ 30.02 COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Town of Fortville shall consist of two districts for the purposes
of electing members of the Town Council members as set forth in the map
attached as Exhibit A to Ord. 2022-12B.
   (B)   Current Town Council members shall continue to hold office until the
term for which the Town Council member was elected or appointed has expired
under state law, and the new Council districts established under this section
shall constitute a current member’s Council district for purposes of
determining the district from which he or she was elected/appointed and/or
whether a member continues to be a resident of his or her Council district.
(Am. Ord. 1992-12B, passed 12-22-92; Am. Ord. 1994-4A, passed 4-26-94; Am. Ord.
2012-11C, passed 12-3-12; Am. Ord. 2022-12B, passed 12-19-22)
Statutory reference:
   Composition of districts, see I.C. 36-5-1-10.1;
   Division of town into districts, see I.C. 36-5-2-4.1;
   Legislative districts, see I.C. 36-5-2-5
§ 30.03 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   All candidates shall be voted upon and elected by all of the voters of the
town, but each candidate and, if elected, each Council member, must reside in
the district in which he or she filed for office.
(Am. Ord. 1992-12B, passed 12-22-92)
§ 30.04 PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The Town Council shall select at its first annual meeting one of its
members to be its President for a definite term which may not exceed his or her
term of office.
   (B)   The President is the town executive.
(`87 Code, § 3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Selection of a president, see I.C. 36-5-2-7;
   Town executive, see I.C. 36-5-2-2
§ 30.05 QUORUM AND VOTES TO PASS.
   (A)   A majority of all elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
   (B)   Passage of ordinances, orders or resolutions shall be governed by
applicable state statutes.
(`87 Code, § 3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Defining a quorum of the Council, see I.C. 36-5-2-9.2;
   Majority, two-thirds and unanimous votes, see I.C. 36-5-2-9.4 through 36-5-
2-9.8
§ 30.06 COUNCIL POWERS.
   The Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town;
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal; and
   (D)   Exercise all powers that are needed for the effective operation of
local governmental affairs.
(`87 Code, § 3-6)
Cross-reference:
   Shelter House and Community Center rental, see §
91.09
Statutory reference:
   Home Rule powers of municipalities, see I.C. 36-1-3-1 through 36-1-3-9;
   Powers of the legislative body, see I.C. 36-5-2-9
§ 30.07 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE.
   All ordinances which are of a general and permanent nature and which would
amend the Town Code shall be in the following form:
   Ordinance No.        
   (Year-Chronological number of Ordinance
   passed in that calendar year)
   (Short Title)
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN
   OF FORTVILLE, INDIANA, AMENDING CHAPTER                   ,
   ARTICLE                  , SECTION(S)              , OF THE FORTVILLE TOWN
   CODE BY THE INCLUSION/DELETION OF SECTION(S)
   ENTITLED                                                    
WHEREAS, (background statements setting forth the purpose or background of the
ordinance)
WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FORTVILLE,
HANCOCK COUNTY, INDIANA, as follows:
SECTION I. Title             , Chapter             , Section(s)              ,
of the Fortville Town Code is/are hereby amended to read as follows:
   (Set forth the particular language)
SECTION . This Ordinance shall be of full force and effect from and after its
passage.
Adopted this                  day of               , 20          .
                        Town Council
                        Town of Fortville
                        By:                                 
                        President
                                                         
                        Trustee
ATTEST:                                                      
                        Trustee
                             
Clerk-Treasurer                                                   
                        Trustee
                                                         
                        Trustee
(`87 Code, § 3-10)
§ 30.08 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Any matter not addressed by any rules of procedure which may be adopted by
the Town Council shall be governed by Robert's Rules of Order.
(`87 Code, § 3-11)
§ 30.09 RECORDING AND PUBLISHING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances, within a reasonable time after their passage, shall be
recorded in a book kept for that purpose by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Any adopted ordinance, order or resolution which must be promulgated
or published before it takes effect shall be done pursuant to applicable state
statute.
(`87 Code, § 3-12)
Statutory reference:
   Posting of ordinances in three public places and the publication of
ordinances in town code, see I.C. 36-4-6-14
§ 30.10 COMPENSATION OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of its own
members.
   (B)   The compensation of an elected town officer may not be changed in the
year below the amount fixed for the year 1980.
(`87 Code, § 3-13)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation for members of the Council and other town officer and
employees, see I.C. 36-5-3- 2
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Town appointments
   
31.02   Compensation and salary
   
31.03   Official surety bonds
   
31.04   Personnel Policies and Procedures Handbook
   
31.05   Deferred Compensation Plan
   
31.06   Establishing election by primary
Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.20   Terms of office
   
31.21   Powers and duties
   
31.22   Compensation
   
31.23   Deputies and employees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 TOWN APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may employ such persons to effectively carry out the
needs and services of the town.
   (B)   Positions which the Council may appoint include but shall not be
limited to the following:
      (1)   Town Manager;
      (2)   Town Attorney;
      (3)   Town Engineer;
      (4)   Town Marshal;
      (5)   Volunteer Fire Chief;
      (6)   Other officers and employees deemed necessary.
   (C)   Duties shall be set forth for each position by the Town Council and
applicable state law.
(`87 Code, § 2-24)
Statutory reference:
   Duties and authorization to appoint a Town Manager, see I.C. 36-5-5-
1 through 36-5-5-8
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION AND SALARY.
   The Town Council shall fix the compensation or salary of all town employees
and officers by appropriate ordinance.
(`87 Code, § 2-25)
Statutory reference:
   Setting of salaries or compensation for employees and officers, see I.C. 36-
5-3-2
§ 31.03 OFFICIAL SURETY BONDS.
   Individual official surety bonds required by I.C. 5-4-1-18, as it may be
amended from time to time, shall be provided by the town. A blanket bond may be
obtained to cover the faithful performance of all other employees, commission
members and persons acting on behalf of the town so required to be covered.
(`87 Code, § 2-26)
§ 31.04 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES HANDBOOK.
   (A)   There is adopted a Town of Fortville Policies and Procedures Handbook
made a part hereof which may be from time to time amended by ordinance of the
Town Council of the Town of Fortville meeting in regular or special session.
Any amendment to the Policies and Procedures Handbook shall be in writing and
adopted by vote of a majority of the Town Council pursuant to written
resolution, which shall thereafter be incorporated into the written Policies
and Procedures Handbook following its adoption.
   (B)   The Policies and Procedures Handbook adopted pursuant to this section
shall be the exclusive statement of policies and procedures of the Town of
Fortville applying to its employees.
   (C)   Town policy applies to employees of the Town of Fortville, elected
officials and members of boards and commissions of the town, unless otherwise
provided by applicable law.
   (D)   Each employee of the Town of Fortville will receive a copy of the Town
of Fortville Policies and Procedures Handbook and will acknowledge receipt of
same.
(Am. Ord. 2000-12B, passed 12-28-00; Am. Ord. 2007-1-A, passed 1-15-07; Am.
Ord. 2008-12B, passed 12-4-08; Am. Ord. 2009-2A, passed 2-16-09; Am. Ord. 2009-
3A, passed 4-20-09; Am. Ord. 2012-8B, passed 9-4-12; Ord. 2019-9B, passed 10-7-
19)
§ 31.05 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Town of Fortville Deferred Compensation Plan for the voluntary
participation of all eligible employees and elected officials is established.
   (B)   The town will utilize the state’s plan document and its investment
options. The town will contract with Indiana Deferred Compensation Plan, Inc.
to be the exclusive Servicing Manager and Enroller.
   (C)   The Fortville Clerk-Treasurer is appointed as the Administrator of the
Plan and is authorized to make payroll deductions from the pay of employees who
voluntarily participate. The Clerk-Treasurer is further authorized to make
other arrangements as are necessary to implement the Plan. It is understood
that, other than the incidental expense of collecting the employees’ deferrals
and other minor administrative matters, there is to be no cost to or
contribution by the town to this Plan.
(Am. Ord. 1993-4A, passed 4-13-93)
§ 31.06 ESTABLISHING ELECTION BY PRIMARY.
   (A)   A candidate for any town office shall hereafter be nominated by the
use of a primary election as that term is utilized in I.C. 3-8-5-2(a)(2).
   (B)   The primary shall be conducted in the manner as provided by law and
shall be conducted by the County Election Board of the County of Hancock,
Indiana, all as required by I.C. 3-8-5-2(e).
(Ord. 2003-11A, passed 12-9-03)
TOWN CLERK-TREASURER
§ 31.20 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is an elected position whose term of office
is for four years, beginning at noon on January 1 after his or her election and
continuing until a successor is elected and qualified.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters of the whole
town.
(`87 Code, § 2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Term of office, see I.C. 36-5-6-3
§ 31.21 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and
take acknowledgments of instruments as required by law.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may perform all duties prescribed by law,
which include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town monies and pay them out upon order of
the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts of all town monies;
      (3)   File monthly reports with the Town Council showing all receipts and
disbursements of the Town Treasury for the preceding month;
      (4)   Maintain records which are open for inspection by the Town Council;
      (5)   Collect fines resulting from ordinance violations;
      (6)   Issue all licenses; and
      (7)   Attend all Town Council meetings and maintain a recording of its
proceedings.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and Town Fiscal Officer
pursuant to I.C. 36-5-6-2.
(`87 Code, § 2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer authorized to administer oaths and related powers, see I.C.
36-5-6-5;
   Clerk-Treasurer’s role to the legislative body, see I.C. 36-5-2-8;
   Powers and duties of Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-5-6-6
§ 31.22 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation for the services of the person holding the office of Clerk-
Treasurer shall be fixed by the Town Council.
(`87 Code, § 2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-5-3-2
§ 31.23 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may appoint the number of deputies and employees
authorized by the Town Council.
   (B)   Deputies and employees so hired serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(`87 Code, § 2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer to appoint deputies and employees, see I.C. 36-5-6-7
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
32.01   Boards and Commissions established
   
32.02   Departments established
   
32.03   Department of Building Safety
   
32.04   Plan Commission
   
32.05   Department of Redevelopment
   
32.06   Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission
   
32.07   Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners
   
32.08   Design Review Board
   
32.09   Redevelopment Authority
   
32.10   Department of Economic Development; Economic Development Commission
§ 32.01 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS ESTABLISHED.
   The Town of Fortville shall establish such boards and commissions as are
deemed necessary by the Town Council to efficiently and effectively carry out
the services and functions of the town.
(`87 Code, § 2-45)
§ 32.02 DEPARTMENTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Town of Fortville shall establish such departments as are deemed
necessary by the Town Council to efficiently and effectively carry out the
services and functions of the town.
   (B)   The following departments are established:
      (1)   Department of Building Safety;
      (2)   Fortville Sewage Utility Treatment Plant;
      (3)   Fortville Water Utility Treatment Plant;
      (4)   Department of Parks and Recreation;
      (5)   Police Department (Town Marshal);
      (6)   Street Department;
      (7)   Volunteer Fire Department;
      (8)   Department of Storm Water Management.
   (C)   The departments established by this section shall perform the
administrative functions assigned to them by statute and ordinance.
(`87 Code, § 2-50) (Ord. 1984-6A, passed 6-12-84; Ord. 1984-7E, passed 7-24-84;
Am. Ord. 2003-7A, passed 7-8-03)
§ 32.03 DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING SAFETY.
   (A)   There is established the Department of Building Safety, which shall be
administered by an executive director.
   (B)   I.C. 36-7-9 is adopted.
   (C)   The Department of Building Safety shall be responsible for the
administration of I.C. 36-7-9.
   (D)   All provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, including the definition of substantial
property interest, are hereby incorporated into this section by reference.
(`87 Code, § 2-51) (Ord. 1984-7E, passed 7-24-84)
Cross reference:
   Building regulations, see Ch. 150
§ 32.04 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Withdrawal. The town hereby withdraws from the Hancock County Area
Planning Department, including the Hancock County Area Plan Commission.
   (B)   Establishment. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-202 and other applicable law,
there is hereby established an advisory plan commission for the town to be
known as the “Fortville Plan Commission” with all authority under I.C. 36-7-
4 and all amendments thereto.
   (C)   Membership. The membership of the Plan Commission shall be as provided
by I.C. 36-7-4-207 and shall be composed of three elected or appointed
officials of the town or employees of the town to be appointed by the Town
Council (“official members”), and four citizen members appointed by the Town
Council President (citizen members”).
   (D)   Term.
      (1)   Official members. Terms of appointed official members shall
coincide with their term of office or employment, except that the Town Council
at the first regular meeting of any year may appoint another to serve as its
representative from the town government.
      (2)   Citizen members. Initial terms of citizen members shall be two
members for a term of three years and two members for a term of four years.
Citizen members shall be duly qualified, and not more than two of the citizen
members shall be of the same political party. Initial terms of citizen members
shall expire on the first day of January of the third and fourth year,
respectively, following their initial appointments. Thereafter, as terms
expire, each new appointment shall be for a term of four years.
   (E)   Responsibilities; duties; powers; procedures. The responsibilities,
duties, powers, and procedures of the Fortville Plan Commission shall be as set
forth in I.C. 36-7-4 as amended and all other applicable laws and town
ordinances.
   (F)   Intent. It is the intent of Fortville that this section and the acts
hereunder not abrogate or alter the prior and currently applicable planning and
zoning ordinance, rules, and regulations applicable within Fortville subject
only to the transfer of functions attendant to Fortville’s withdrawal from the
Hancock County Area Planning Department and establishment of the Fortville Plan
Commission under the advisory planning law.
   (G)   Cooperation. The Fortville planning staff, Fortville Plan Commission,
Fortville Board of Zoning Appeals, and all other applicable Fortville
officials, agencies, boards, and commissions, shall cooperate with the Hancock
County Area Planning Department, Hancock County, and all other applicable
Hancock County officials, agencies, boards, and commissions as may be necessary
and appropriate in furtherance of Fortville’s withdrawal from the Hancock
County Area Planning Department and establishment of the Fortville Plan
Commission under the advisory planning law, and to provide for the continuous
coverage of planning and zoning functions in and around Fortville.
   (H)   Separability. The terms, paragraphs, sentences, words, and acts of
this section are separable, and if a court of competent jurisdiction hereof
declares any portion of this section unconstitutional, invalid, and
unenforceable for any reason, such declaration shall not affect the remaining
portions or acts hereof and the court shall substitute such provisions or acts
with a constitutional, valid, and enforceable provision or act as would be
necessary to effectuate and provide for Fortville’s withdrawal from the Hancock
County Area Planning Department, establishment of the Fortville Plan
Commission, and Fortville’s autonomous operation under the advisory planning
law, or to effectuate the enforceability of the applicable planning or zoning
ordinance, rule, or regulation within Fortville and be in furtherance of
Fortville’s withdrawal from the Hancock County Area Planning Department and the
establishment of the Fortville Plan Commission and its operation under the
advisory planning law. Nor shall the validity or invalidity of other zoning and
planning actions taken the date hereof by the town or the Fortville Plan
Commission adversely affect or undermine Fortville’s withdrawal from the
Hancock County Area Planning Department, establishment of the Fortville Plan
Commission, and Fortville’s autonomous operation under the advisory planning
law.
(Ord. 2020-1A, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 32.05 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council now deems it to be in the best interest of the town
and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation,
redevelopment or economic development of areas by private enterprise and the
town by establishing a Department of Redevelopment.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Department of Redevelopment.
The Department will be controlled by a board of five members known as the
Fortville Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act, all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the town will be a taxing district to be known as the Fortville
Redevelopment District for the purpose of levying and collecting special
benefit taxes for redevelopment and economic development purposes as provided
in the Act. The Town Council finds and determines that all of the taxable
property within this special
taxing district will be considered to be benefited by the redevelopment
projects and economic development projects carried out under the Act to the
extent of the special taxes levied under the Act.
(Ord. 2002-10A, passed 10-22-02)
§ 32.06 FIRE PREVENTION AND BUILDING SAFETY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-2-9 and I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the fire safety rules
and building rules, as adopted and hereafter amended by the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission are adopted by reference as the rules of the town.
   (B)   The Hancock County Building Inspector is hereby authorized to enforce
this fire safety and building rules within the town limits, to issue permits
and to charge and collect the same fee as is charge to county residents.
(Ord. 2006-5A, passed 5-9-06)
§ 32.07 BOARD OF METROPOLITAN POLICE COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Board of Police Commissioners. There is hereby established the Town of
Fortville Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners (“Board”). The Board shall
consist of three members (“Commissioner(s)”), each appointed by the Town
Council. In order to qualify as a Commissioner, an appointee must be of good
moral character and must be a legal resident of the town. A police officer
employed by the town may not be appointed to the Board. Furthermore, not more
than two of the Commissioners may be of the same political party, so long as
individuals who satisfy this requirement can be found to serve on the Board.
The Town Council may appoint one member of the Town Council as an ex officio
member of the Board, and no more than one Town Council member may serve on the
Board at any given time. Any Commissioner who is also a member of the Town
Council may continue to serve on the Board until the end of the Commissioners'
term even if the Commissioner vacates his/her position on the Town Council.
   (B)   Terms, oaths, bonds, and salaries. 
      (1)   The appointment of each Commissioner shall carry with it a specific
term. The Town Council shall appoint the initial five Commissioners to the
Board to begin service on April 21, 2014, which initial appointments shall
carry the following terms:
         (a)   Two Commissioner shall serve for a term of one year, one of whom
shall be the Town Council member appointed to the Commission ;
         (b)   Two Commissioners shall serve for a term of two years; and
         (c)   One Commissioner shall serve for a term of three years.
      (2)   Thereafter, the term of each Commissioner shall be for a period of
three years with the term of each Commissioner expiring on January 1 of the
third year following its last expiration, such that Commissioners serve for
staggered terms with the terms of not more than one Commissioner expiring in
any given year. Each Commissioner is subject to removal by the Town Council for
any cause that the Town Council considers sufficient.
      (3)   Before performing any function of a Commissioner, an individual
that is not also a member of the Town Council shall take and subscribe an oath
or affirmation of office before the Hancock County Circuit Court Clerk. All
Commissioners, including those who are also members of the Town Council, shall
take and subscribe an oath or affirmation before the Hancock County Circuit
Court Clerk that, in each appointment or removal made by the Board to or from
the Town Police Department, he/she will not appoint or remove a member of the
Town Police Department because of political affiliation of the person or for
another cause or reason other than that of the fitness of the person. All oaths
and affirmations shall be filed and placed among the Hancock County Circuit
Court Clerk's records. Each Commissioner that is not also a member of the Town
Council shall give a bond in the penal sum of $5,000, payable to the state and
conditioned upon the faithful and honest discharge of his/her duties. The bond
must be approved and paid by the Town Council.
      (4)   The salary of the Commissioners shall be fixed by the Town Council
and is payable monthly out of the treasury of the town; provided, however, that
a Commissioner who is also a member of the Town Council shall not receive
compensation as a Commissioner.
   (C)   Powers and duties. 
      (1)   The Board shall, subject to the approval of the Town Council and
the qualifications for appointment as determined by the Board, appoint as many
persons as necessary to serve in the Police Department (“Department”) of the
town. One person shall be appointed to serve as the Chief of Police. The Board
may also appoint other employees that are necessary to carry out the work of
the Department. The Board may, but is not required to, appoint the current Town
Marshal and/or any current Deputy Marshal to serve in the Department. All
persons so appointed by the Board must be of good moral character and serve
only during good behavior. The Board may recommend and the Town Council shall
determine the compensation to be paid to members of the Department in amounts
that are just and reasonable.
      (2)   The Board constitutes the safety board of the town for purposes of
the suspension, demotion, or dismissal of any member of the Department.
Proceedings for the suspension, demotion, or dismissal of any member of the
Department shall be conducted in the manner prescribed by I.C. § 36-8-3-4. The
disciplinary provisions of I.C. § 36-8-3-4.1 also apply to the Safety Board and
the Police Chief.
      (3)   The Board may make general and specific rules for the government
and discipline of the Department and may make special and general orders to the
Department through the Chief of Police, who is the executive head of the
department. Members of the Police Department must:
         (a)   Reside in Indiana within Hancock County or a county that is
contiguous to Hancock County; and
         (b)   Maintain in their residence telephone sendee with the Town.
Members of the Department may not use vehicles owned or maintained by the Town
or its Department outside Hancock County except during the performance of
official duties or as allowed by Department regulation. In all other respects,
the Department and Police Chief as provided for herein shall be governed by
applicable statutes of the state as set forth in the Indiana Code and as
amended from time to time, and to the extent appropriate, such other ordinances
governing the conduct of the Department enacted now and hereafter by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2014-3A, passed 4-7-14; Am. Ord. 2014-5A, passed 5-5-14)
§ 32.08 DESIGN REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Authority and purpose. The Town of Fortville Design Review Board,
hereafter referred to as the DRB, was established by the Fortville Town
Council, Indiana, pursuant to this section. The DRB functions as a subcommittee
of the Town Council and provides advisory recommendations to the Hancock County
Plan Commission and/or Board of Zoning Appeals for purposes of interpreting and
enforcing the town's adopted development standards as referenced in the
Fortville Overlay District of the Hancock County Zoning Code.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   These rules and procedures are hi furtherance of the standards
established within the Fortville Overlay District of Chapter 156 of the Hancock
County Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   The deliberations, opinions and findings of the DRB are advisory in
nature and do not represent a predisposition of any action by either the
Hancock County Plan Commission or the Fortville Town Council.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall be construed to give or giant the DRB the
power or authority to alter or change the zoning ordinance, including the zone
map, which is reserved to the Town Council.
      (4)   The Town Attorney shall be consulted in all cases where the powers
of the DRB are not clearly defined within this document or related town
ordinance.
      (5)   A file of materials and decisions relating to each DRB action shall
be kept by the Clerk-Treasurer as part of the records of the DRB.
      (6)   The DRB shall keep minutes of its proceedings and record the vote
of all actions taken. All minutes and records shall be filed in the Clerk-
Treasurer's office and are public record.
   (C)   Membership.
      (1)   The DRB shall consist of five members as follows:
         (a)   1.   The Fortville Redevelopment Commission shall appoint one of
its members to serve on the DRB for a term of one calendar year. New
appointments or reappointments shall occur annually,
            2.   The Redevelopment Commission shall have the power to remove or
replace its appointee at any time without cause or prior notice.
         (b)   1.   The Hancock County Plan Commission shall appoint its
representative to serve on the DRB for a term of two consecutive calendar
years. New appointments or reappointments shall occur every two years.
            2.   The Plan Commission shall have the power to remove or replace
its appointee at any time without cause or prior notice.
         (c)   1.   The Fortville Town Council shall appoint a member from the
Council to serve on the DRB for a term of two consecutive calendar years.
            2.   The Council shall have the power to remove or replace its
appointee at any time without cause or prior notice.
         (d)   1.   The Fortville Town Council shall appoint two persons who
reside or own a business within the town limits of Fortville and preferably
have experience in architecture, landscape architecture, civil engineering,
urban planning or other profession related to urban or town development.
Residents of Fortville shall be given preference when making these
appointments. These appointees shall serve three consecutive calendar year
terms.
            2.   The Council shall have the power to remove or replace either
or both of its appointees at any time without cause or prior notice.
   (D)   Officers and duties.
      (1)   The officers shall be Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary.
      (2)   The Officers shall be elected by the DRB membership at the first
regular meeting of the calendar year.
      (3)   The Vice Chairperson, in the absence or disability of the
Chairperson, shall perform all duties and exercise all the powers of the
Chairperson.
      (4)   The Secretary, in the absence or disability of the Chairperson and
Vice Chairperson, shall perform all duties and exercise all the powers of the
Chairperson.
      (5)   The Chairperson shall supervise the affairs of the DRB. The
Chairperson shall preside over the hearings and all persons shall abide by the
directions of the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall determine all matters
concerning the procedures and content of each petition.
      (6)   The Secretary shall record and maintain permanent minutes of the
DRB proceedings-including the vote on any decisions. Minutes and files shall be
maintained and kept in the Town Clerk's office. All minutes and records shall
be public records.
   (E)   Meetings.
      (1)   The DRB shall meet on the third Tuesday of each month unless
otherwise advertised. Regularly scheduled times and locations shall be
advertised on the town website at the beginning of each calendar year.
      (2)   Each applicant is required to post a sign on the proposed
development site to notify the public of the public DRB meeting. The sign shall
list the time of the DRB meeting, project address and address of where the
public meeting will be held. This sign shall be posted a minimum of seven days
prior to when the proposed development is to be reviewed by the DRB. The
notification shall be placed adjacent to the right-of-way that offers the
greatest visibility.
      (3)   Regular meetings may be cancelled by the Chairperson or DRB Staff
when there are no cases pending.
      (4)   Special meetings of the DRB shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson, written request of two members, or as may be determined at a
regular meeting. Only matters included in the call for a special meeting shall
be considered, except upon the unanimous approval of all members of the Board.
      (5)   All DRB meetings shall be open to the public.
      (6)   A majority of the total membership of the DRB shall constitute a
quorum. The total membership of the Board is five members. No action shall be
binding unless approved by a majority of the DRB membership at a regular or
duly called special meeting.
      (7)   A quorum consisting of a minimum of three members of the DRB shall
be present for the transaction of any business.
   (F)   Powers and duties. The DRB shall review all non-residential and
planned unit development proposals as follows:
      (1)   Review and recommendation of planned unit developments regarding:
         (a)   Preliminary plans;
         (b)   Zone map changes;
         (c)   Final detailed plans;
         (d)   Building elevations;
         (e)   Other information as requested by the DRB; and
         (f)   Subsequent reviews of residential projects within a PUD are not
required.
      (2)   Review and recommendation of lot design and architectural
requirements including:
         (a)   Site plans;
         (b)   Landscape plans;
         (c)   Signage;
         (d)   Architecture; and
         (e)   Other information as required by the DRB.
      (3)   Other applications or petitions identified by the Hancock Plan
Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals as needing additional technical review,
including but not limited to the review of applications or petitions for zone
map changes, primary plats, secondary plats, variances of development
standards, and special exceptions.
      (4)   DRB recommendations must be in compliance with the town's street
and utility standards.
      (5)   Prior to submitting any DRB recommendation to the Hancock County
Plan Commission, Hancock County Board of Zoning Appeals, or other governing
body, the DRB shall distribute its proposed recommendation to the Town Council
for consideration. If within three business days of providing the proposed
recommendation to the Town Council at least two Council members request Town
Council review, the matter will be placed on the agenda for the next Town
Council meeting for consideration. Such requests shall be made in writing and
delivered to the Town Manager or the Town Manager's designee. Upon review, the
Town Council may affirm, overturn, or amend the DRB's recommendation.
   (G)   Filing deadline. In order lo provide the DRB members with sufficient
time to review applications, all items which are to be reviewed by the DRB
shall be filed with the Town Manager's Office by the first day of each month,
   (H)   Waivers. The Fortville Town Manager, or a majority of the members of
the Redevelopment Commission, for good cause shown, may waive any filing
deadline when such waiver is deemed necessary to provide for a complete and
thorough discussion of a particular application, petition or special matter;
and, to be in the best interest of the town.
   (I)   Amendments.
      (1)   These rules may be amended by an affirmative majority vote of the
Town Council.
      (2)   The proposed amendments) must be presented in writing at a regular
or special meeting of the Town Council preceding the meeting at winch the vote
is taken.
(Ord. 2016-8C, passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. 2017-5C, passed 6-5-17)
§ 32.09 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Town Council now deems it to be in the best interest of the town
and its citizens to establish and create a redevelopment authority as a
separate body corporate and politic and as an instrumentality of the town with
all of the powers under I.C. 36-7-14.5 (“the Act”) to be known as the “Town of
Fortville Redevelopment Authority” (the “Redevelopment Authority”), which
Redevelopment Authority is hereby created.
   (B)   Pursuant to the Act, the Redevelopment Authority shall be governed by
a Board of Directors (the “Board”) composed of three members, each of whom must
be residents of the town. The President of the Town Council (the “President”)
shall appoint the members of the Board. Members of the Board shall serve for a
term of three years and may be reappointed for subsequent terms. The President
shall fill any vacancy on the Board by appointing a new member for the
remainder of the vacated term. Any Board member may be removed for cause by the
President. Board members shall not receive a salary, and no profit or money of
the Redevelopment Authority shall inure to the benefit of a member.
   (C)   Upon their appointment by the President, the members of the Board
shall take and subscribe an oath of office under I.C. 5-4-1, which shall be
endorsed upon the certificate of appointment and filed with the records of the
Redevelopment Authority.
   (D)   The Board shall hold its meetings and carry out all of its functions,
powers and purposes in accordance with and pursuant to the Act, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2021-9B, passed 9-7-21)
§ 32.10 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby finds it necessary to finance economic
development or pollution control facilities under I.C. 36-7-11.9 and 36-7-12
(collectively, “the Act”).
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes a Department of Economic
Development (the “Department”), to be controlled by a commission (the
“Commission”) known as “Town of Fortville Economic Development Commission”.
   (C)   The Commission shall consist of three members appointed by the Town
Council President. One of the members shall be selected by the Town Council
President, one member shall be nominated by the Town Council and one member
shall be nominated by the County Council.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-5(b), the Town Council as the fiscal body of
the town hereby nominates [a person] to serve as a member of the Commission.
   (E)   After the adoption of this section, the Town Clerk-Treasurer, under
I.C. 36-7-12-9, is hereby authorized and directed to promptly notify:
      (1)   The County Council of the creation of the Department and its
obligation to nominate a member to serve on the Commission; and
      (2)   The Town Council President of the creation of the Department and
his/her obligation to appoint the nominees of the respective fiscal bodies of
the town and the county and to select and appoint the third member to serve on
the Commission.
   (F)   The nomination from the Town Council President and from the County
Council must be made 15 days from the date notice as described in division (E)
hereof is received.
   (G)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-5(c), Commission members shall take
office upon their appointment, and their terms run from February 1 after their
original appointment, for a period of:
         (a)   Three years, if selected by the Town Council President;
         (b)   Two years, if nominated by the Town Council; and
         (c)   One year, if nominated by the County Council.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-9, at the expiration of the respective
terms of each of the original Commission members, their respective successors
shall be selected and nominated, before the expiration of the term, in the same
manner as the original commissioner, and each succeeding commissioner shall
serve for a term of four years. A commissioner shall hold over after the
expiration of his/her term until his/her successor is appointed and has
qualified.
   (H)   No member of the Commission shall be entitled to any salary, per diem
allowance or other compensation, except reimbursement for expenses necessarily
incurred in the performance of such member’s duties.
   (I)   Any officer of the town is hereby authorized and directed, for and on
behalf of the town, to execute and deliver any instrument or take any other
action as such officer determines to be necessary or desirable to accomplish
the purposes of this section, such determination to be conclusively evidenced
by such officer’s having executed such instrument or having taken such action,
and any such officer’s having executed and delivered any such instrument or
having taken any such action is hereby ratified and approved.
(Ord. 2021-11A, passed 11-1-21)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE AND VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Police reserves
   
33.02   Police officers
Cross-reference:
   See also Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners, §
32.07
Volunteer Fire Department
   
33.20   Active volunteer firefighters
   
33.21   By-laws
   
33.22   Membership
   
33.23   Rules governing membership
   
33.24   Officers
   
33.25   Elections
   
33.26   Meetings
   
33.27   Committees
   
33.28   Board of Directors
   
33.29   Charges for certain fire services
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   Police Reserves established. There is established, pursuant to I.C.
36-8-3-20, the Fortville Police Reserve. (`87 Code, § 2-12)
   (B)   Number of reserves. The number of members of the reserves shall not
exceed 15. (`87 Code, § 2-13)
(Ord. 1976-1A, passed 1-27-76)
§ 33.02 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Police employees. Police officers will receive six complimentary days
off annually to be taken at their discretion. (`87 Code, § 2-37)
   (B) Mileage.
      (1)   Town employees who use personal cars for official town business
shall be reimbursed for such business mileage which is properly documented and
approved by the Town Council.
      (2)   All such mileage shall be tendered in writing to the Clerk-
Treasurer by listing the dates, odometer readings and purpose of such travel.
      (3)   Payment of such mileage shall only be after approval by the Town
Council.
(`87 Code, § 2-39)
   (C)   Work period established for Deputy Marshals. The work period for
Deputy Marshals is set at 24 days.
(`87 Code, § 2-40) (Ord. 1985-6A, passed 6-11-85)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.20 ACTIVE VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER.
   The Town Council shall semi-annually pay compensation, car allowance and
clothing allowance for up to 25 active volunteer firefighters, providing such
volunteers are certified by the Board of Directors of the Department as having
met all of the following requirements:
   (A)   (1)   Attendance at 33% of each of the following:
         (a)   Fire and related alarms;
         (b)   Work details;
         (c)   Training meetings;
      (2)   Attendance exceeding the minimum in one category may be used in
another category, but no category may be less than 25%. Credit will be given
for attendance at a fire or related alarm if the volunteer remains at the
station and assists with truck preparation when it returns, although it will
not be necessary to remain if the volunteer must return or report to work;
   (B)   They reside within one mile of the Fortville town limits or work full
time in Fortville at a job they may leave for alarms;
   (C)   They have taken and passed a physical examination during the last two
years or more often, if required by the Board of Directors;
   (D)   They are less than 60 years of age;
   (E)   They have acquired and maintained an acceptable level of proficiency
and knowledge of fire fighting practices, as determined by the Board of
Directors.
(`87 Code, § 2-19) (Ord. 1971-9A, passed 9-28-71)
§ 33.21 BY-LAWS.
   The following by-laws are created for the establishment of good government
and sound administration of this Department.
   (A)   All articles to be accepted will require a majority vote of members
present at a regular meeting.
   (B)   The by-laws and all additions to the by-laws will be presented to the
Town Council of Fortville, Indiana for their approval.
   (C)   Any amendments to these by-laws or additions to these by-laws will
require a two-thirds vote of the members present at the regular May by-laws
meeting.
(`87 Code, § 2-20)
§ 33.22 MEMBERSHIP.
   Membership of this Department shall be divided into three types: active,
associate and probationary trainee.
   (A)   The membership of this Department shall be limited to 25 active
members and as many probationary trainees as deemed necessary by the Board of
Directors.
      (1)   Active firefighters shall have full voting rights and will be
eligible to hold elective offices in this Department.
      (2)   To remain active, members must meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Attendance at 33% of each of the following:
            1.   Fire and related alarms;
            2.   Work details;
            3.   Training meetings;
            4.   Attendance exceeding the minimum in one category may be used
in another category, but no category may be less than 25%. Credit will be given
for attendance at a fire or related alarm if the volunteer remains at the
station and assists with truck preparation when it returns, although it will
not be necessary to remain if the volunteer must return or report to work;
         (b)   That they reside within one mile of the Fortville city limits or
work full time in Fortville at a job they may leave for alarms;
         (c)   That they have taken and passed a physical examination during
the last two years or more often, if required by the Board of Directors.
         (d)   That they are less than 60 years of age;
         (e)   That they have acquired and maintained an acceptable level of
proficiency and knowledge of firefighting practices, as determined by the Board
of Directors;
         (f)   All members will work together in harmony and strive for the
betterment of the Department;
         (g)   To respond to all fire alarms and calls of the Chief or his or
her assistants as far as possible;
         (h)   To assist in keeping the Department building and all of the
equipment clean and in good operating condition;
      (3)   Excusable reasons for not participating will be sickness, death in
family, working schedules, vacations or others approved by the Board of
Directors.
      (4)   Active members reaching 60 years of age will retire from active
membership, effective the last day of the sixth month compensation period in
which their sixtieth birthday falls.
   (B)   Associate members are those active members who have chosen to become
inactive in Department functions or those who can no longer serve as active
members due to circumstances such as (but not limited to) illness, physical
handicaps, military duty or working handicaps.
      (1)   Associate members may attend all meetings and be active in all
Department functions other than actual firefighting.
      (2)   Associate members will not have voting powers, but will have a
floor voice at all business meetings.
      (3)   Associate members will be eligible for appointed office such as
committee chairmen and the like.    
      (4)   Associate members shall be known as active firefighters upon the
direction and by being declared so by the ranking officer in charge at a fire.
      (5)   Associate members may become active members in the event of an
active membership vacancy if approved by the majority of members present at a
regular meeting.
      (6)   When active members go associate, they will be compensated for the
entire six month compensation period.   
      (7)   When active members go associate they will remain as associate
members either indefinitely or until a request is heard from said member to be
deleted from the associate membership roll.
   (C)   Probationary trainees will be those who have made application, on the
prescribed forms, and have been accepted by the majority of the active members
present at a regular meeting. Applicants shall not be present on the day of
voting on their membership. The vote will be by secret ballot.
      (1)   To be eligible for application, the applicant must be between the
ages of 18 and 40, of sound mind and physically fit and a resident of the Town
of Fortville, Indiana or reside within one mile of Fortville city limits or
work full-time at a job in Fortville which they may leave for fire alarms.
         (a)   All applicants under 21 years of age must submit a notarized
statement of permission by parent or guardian.
         (b)   Applicants 21 or older will be shown preference.
         (c)   All applicants must have a high school education or equivalent.
      (2)   All applicants must furnish a statement of physical fitness signed
by a licensed M.D. to meet Fire Department standards.
      (3)   Probationary trainees will be required to participate in a nine
month training program covering various phases of firefighting and first aid
practice. He or she will then be eligible for an active membership vote
whenever a vacancy occurs. Probationary trainees must be 21 years of age in
order to be eligible for active membership.
      (4)   Probationary trainees may attend all business meetings and
Department functions. They will not have voting rights but will have a floor
voice.
      (5)   In the event of two or more trainees becoming eligible for an
active membership vote, the one showing the greatest amount of interest such as
regular attendance and willingness to learn and participate will be considered
first.
(`87 Code, Ch. 2, Art. I)
§ 33.23 RULES GOVERNING MEMBERSHIP.
   Any member who fails to do the duties prescribed for members shall forfeit
their right to membership of the Department.
   (A)   Acts of insubordination and/or defamation of the Department shall be
controlled by the Board of Directors.
   (B)   Whenever the Board of Directors, after just consideration, vote to
terminate a member, they must present their claims at a regular business
meeting. The member shall have the right to be heard. After all discussion by
the Board of Directors and the said member, in front of all members present at
a regularly scheduled meeting when it will be voted upon by all members present
in the absence of the said member.
(`87 Code, Ch. 2, Art. II)
§ 33.24 OFFICERS.
   Officers of this Department shall include Chief, First Assistant Chief,
Second Assistant Chief, First Lieutenant, Second Lieutenant, EMS Lieutenant,
Secretary and Treasurer.
   (A)   The Chief shall be the executive officer of the Department in complete
charge of all fires, meetings and functions.
   (B)   The First Assistant Chief will be superior to the Second Assistant
Chief and will be in command in the absence of the Chief.
   (C)   The Second Assistant Chief will be in command in the absence of the
Chief or the First Assistant Chief.
   (D)   The First Lieutenant will be superior to the Second Lieutenant and
will be in command in the absence of the superior officers.
   (E)   The Second Lieutenant will be in command in the absence of superior
officers.
   (F)   The EMS Lieutenant will be a certified EMT of the Department in
command of Department EMS operations and will answer directly to the highest
ranking officer present. This position devotes itself toward the safety of the
fire scene, rescue efforts at the fire scene, Department EMS operations and
responsibilities, including EMS training, and therefore has no rank in fire
suppression activities.
      (1)   The EMS Lieutenant will act as the first assistant to the highest
ranking officer in charge of the scene in matters relative to EMS operations.
      (2)   The EMS Lieutenant will hold no other elected office.
   (G)   The Secretary and/or Treasurer shall keep minutes of meetings, handle
correspondence, disperse all monies and maintain an accurate bookkeeping
system. All checks will be signed by the Treasurer.
   (H)   Any member who has been in active membership in good standing for at
least the 12 month period prior to elections will be eligible for nomination
and election to any office, with the exception of Chief. The Chief must be
chosen from the roll of officers who have served during the preceding four
years.
   (I)   All terms of office will run from January 1 until December 31.
   (J)   The training officers will be appointed by the Chief.
   (K)   In the event a vacancy occurs in the ranks of the elected officers, a
special election shall be held to fill the vacancy at the next regularly
scheduled meeting after the vacancy occurs, with majority rules prevailing.
Nominations will be open from the floor.
   (L)   Any office with no nominees will be filled by appointment from the
newly elected Board of Directors for the upcoming year.
(`87 Code, Ch. 2, Art. III)
§ 33.25 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Nominations will be held at the regular November business meeting.
   (B)   Voting on the nominations will be at the regular December business
meeting.
   (C)   The election of officers will be conducted by active members of the
Department who may or may not vote at their discretion.
   (D)   All officers shall be elected by secret ballot, majority will rule.
(`87 Code, Ch. 2, Art. IV)
§ 33.26 MEETINGS.
   (A)   There shall be at least one business meeting each month and as many
training meetings as deemed necessary by the Training Officer.
   (B)   The regular business meeting shall be on the first Sunday of each
month at 1:00 p.m.
   (C)   Called meetings shall be at the discretion of the Chief or his or her
assistants.
   (D)   Parliamentary procedure shall rule at all meetings.
   (E)   There will be no monetary dues or assessments levied.
   (F)   Any changes in the by-laws will be put in the form of a written motion
presented at the April meeting and voted on at the May meeting. The motions
shall be posted in the fire station, by the Secretary, for the perusal of the
membership between the April and May meetings.
(`87 Code, Ch. 2, Art. V)
§ 33.27 COMMITTEES.
   There will be one standing committee.
   (A)   A Membership Investigating Committee consisting of the Second
Assistant Chief and two unknown active members appointed by the Chief and the
Second Assistant Chief shall investigate prospective members and present their
findings at the time of the vote.
   (B)   The Chief will be a member of all committees and appoint all
committees.
(`87 Code, Ch. Art. VI)
§ 33.28 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   The Board of Directors will consist of all elected officers, headed by
the Chief.
   (B)   The Board of Directors will govern Department procedure and policy.
(`87 Code, Ch. 2, Art. VII)
§ 33.29 CHARGES FOR CERTAIN FIRE SERVICES.
   The following charges shall be made for services rendered by the Fortville
Fire Department, unless the property is located within the town limits, within
a township with which the town has a contract or within a county with which the
town has a mutual aid agreement:
   (A)   For initial response with a fire engine, a fire truck or a fire
apparatus, including a hazardous material response unit, or a fire rescue unit
dispatched on a fire or hazardous material incident, $250 per response vehicle
except a command/control vehicle, which is $100 per vehicle;
   (B)   For each hour or fraction thereof of on-scene assistance, $150 per
response unit and $50 per command/control vehicle;
   (C)   For expendable materials such as absorption materials, emulsifiers or
other agents used in cleanup operations, the actual replacement cost of those
materials;
   (D)   For collection of debris, chemicals, fuel or contaminated materials
resulting from a spill, the actual cost of removal and disposal at an
authorized location.
(Am. Ord. 1993-1B, passed 1-12-93)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Purchasing agents
   
34.02   Bidding procedure
   
34.03   Town membership and interlocal cooperation
   
34.04   Prepayment of certain expenses
   
34.05   Credit cards
   
34.06   Internal control standards and procedures
Funds Established
   
34.20   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
34.21   Motor Vehicle Highway Fund (MVH)
   
34.22   Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund
   
34.23   Firearms Training Fund
   
34.24   Federal Revenue Sharing Trust Fund
   
34.25   Local Road and Street Fund (LRS)
   
34.26   Reserved
   
34.27   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.28   Local Option Income Tax Fund (LOIT Fund)
   
34.29   Law Enforcement Aid Fund
   
34.30   Police Petty Cash Fund
   
34.31   Nonreverting Police Drug Forfeiture Fund
   
34.32   Economic Development Income Tax Fund
   
34.33   Cumulative Capital Development Fund Rate
   
34.34   Fire Protection Territory Equipment Replacement Fund
   
34.35   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
Capital Asset Policy
   
34.50   Generally
   
34.51   Definition
   
34.52   Threshold levels for capital assets
   
34.53   Valuation of capital assets
   
34.54   Assets defined by major category
   
34.55   Depreciation methods
   
34.56   Capital asset acquisitions
   
34.57   Asset transfers and dispositions
   
34.58   Periodic inventories
   
34.59   Responsibilities of Controller’s Office
   
34.60   Responsibilities of department heads
Purchasing Policies
   
34.65   Publication of notices
   
34.66   Receiving offers
   
34.67   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records
   
34.68   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals
   
34.69   Delay of openings of offer
   
34.70   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
34.71   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies
   
34.72   Modification and termination of contracts
   
34.73   Purchases
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 PURCHASING AGENTS.
   The Town Manager is designated as the purchasing agent of the town. The Town
Manager may authorize other town employees to act on his or her behalf. The
purchasing agent is authorized to make purchases under $25,000 that are within
the budget, but subject to the final approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1998-6A, passed 6-23-98)
§ 34.02 BIDDING PROCEDURE.
   The Town Council may permit the withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids
before or after award.
(Or. 1998-6A, passed 6-23-98)
§ 34.03 TOWN MEMBERSHIP AND INTERLOCAL COOPERATION.
   (A)   Payment of dues for town memberships.
      (1)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds to
provide membership for the Town of Fortville, its elected and appointed
officials and its boards, departments or agencies in local, regional, state or
national associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature which have
as their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
      (2)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds to
pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and
functions of organizations to which the town belongs.
(`87 Code, § 2-69)
   (B)   Interlocal cooperation. The town is authorized pursuant to I.C. 36-1-
7-1 through 36-1-7-12, as it may be amended from time to time, to enter into
joint agreements for the purchase or exchange of property and services with
other governmental bodies. (`87 Code, § 2-70)
§ 34.04 PREPAYMENT OF CERTAIN EXPENSES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-4-12, the fiscal officer of the town, in the
person of the Clerk- Treasurer and/or Deputy Clerk-Treasurer, is hereby allowed
to make payments in advance of Board allowances for the following kinds of
expenses from the appropriate funds authorized by the budget of the town:
      (1)   Property or services purchased of leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions.
      (2)   License or permit fees.
      (3)   Insurance premiums.
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not security to
cover the amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute.
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements.
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements.
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments.
      (10)   Payroll.
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes.
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   In order to be in compliance with this section, each payment for any
expense listed above must be supported by a fully itemized claim with
appropriate documentation.
   (C)   The Town Council, having jurisdiction over the allowance of claims of
the nature set forth above, shall review and allow the claim at its next
regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of said expenses.
(Ord. 2007-12C, passed 12-17-07)
§ 34.05 CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   Issuance. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make application
for business credit cards for use by the designated town officials and
employees, as defined in division (B) of this section, to pay certain expenses
that have been authorized by the Town Council.
      (1)   The town shall obtain business credit cards from only one credit
card company.
      (2)   Business credit cards issued under this section shall have a
maximum limit of $2,000 per card.
   (B)   Designated officials.
      (1)   Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   Town Manager;
      (3)   Chief of Police;
      (4)   Treatment Plant Superintendent;
      (5)   Utility Manager; and
      (6)   Parks Department.
   (C)   Credit card use and policies and procedures.
      (1)   The credit card shall be maintained in the possession of the
designated official or employee.
      (2)   Town officials and employees shall use credit cards exclusively for
the purpose of town travel expenses limited to the following:
         (a)   Hotel or motel room;
         (b)   Hotel or motel room charges for telephone calls pertaining to
town business;
         (c)   Meals, including a maximum 15% gratuity;
         (d)   Fees and costs associated with attending schools, conventions,
seminars, and the like;
         (e)   Gasoline if using a town owned vehicle;
         (f)   Regular materials and supplies if purchased from a vendor that
has not set up a charge account;
         (g)   Internet purchases for government use only;
         (h)   Purchases that for any reason warrant the use of a credit card.
      (3)   Excluded charges include personal purchases, room service, non-
business telephone calls, in-room movies, alcoholic beverages and cash
advances.
      (4)   Accounts payable vouchers (claims) filed in connection with the use
of credit cards shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer for processing within
72 hours of use and shall be properly itemized and documented as provided in
I.C. 5-11-10 before being approved and paid. The credit card account will be
paid in full every billing cycle. Improperly itemized and documented items as
well as all interest, carrying charges, or penalties shall be the personal
responsibility of the individual user.
(Ord. 2009-5C, passed 5-18-09; Am. Ord. 2016-2A, passed 2-1-16)
§ 34.06 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The "Internal Controls Guidebook for Town of Fortville," developed
pursuant to I.C. § 5-11-1-27 and attached to Ord. 2016-7A as Exhibit A, is
hereby adopted for the town.
   (B)   The Town Manager is directed to ensure that all appropriate personnel
are trained on the internal control standards, either through the internal
control webinar or through a live presentation by the State Board of Accounts
at an annually called meeting or conference around the state.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PERSONNEL means an officer or employee
of Fortville whose official duties include receiving, processing, depositing,
disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that belong to Fortville, the
Federal government, state government, or another governmental entity.
(Ord. 2016-7A, passed 7-5-16)
FUNDS ESTABLISHED
§ 34.20 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. The Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund is
established.
   (B)   Purpose. This special fund is established for the purpose of receiving
cigarette taxes allocated to the town pursuant to applicable state law and the
funds shall not revert to the General Fund.
(`87 Code, § 2-56)
Statutory reference:
   Cumulative funds and cumulative capital improvement funds, see I.C. 6-7-1-
30.1 and 6-7-1-31.1
§ 34.21 MOTOR VEHICLE HIGHWAY FUND (MVH).
   The Motor Vehicle Highway Fund is established for the purpose of receiving
applicable state funds and for expenditures permitted by statute.
(`87 Code, § 2-57)
§ 34.22 LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTINUING EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   There is created a Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund
pursuant to I.C. 5-2-8-2, which shall be funded by fees set forth below
collected pursuant to state law, as well as amounts appropriated under I.C. 33-
37-8-4.
   (B)   A fee of $5 shall be charged for each accident report requested of,
and provided by, the Fortville Police Department.
   (C)   A fee of $15 shall be charged for any response, reproduction, or
provision of photographs and/or videotapes in connection with any action or
investigation conducted by the Town Marshal, his or her deputies or anyone
under his or her direction of control.
   (D)   A fee of $5 shall be charged for each vehicle identification number
inspection conducted by the Town Marshal, his or her deputies, or anyone under
his or her direction or control.
   (E)   A fee of $20 shall be charged for each salvage title inspection
conducted by the Town Marshal, his or her deputies, or anyone under his or her
direction or control.
   (F)   This Fund is to be used at the discretion of the Town Marshal for the
continuing education of the Town Marshal, any Deputy Marshals and any Reserve
Deputy Marshals or anyone under the Town Marshal’s direction or control.
(Ord. 2008-10A, passed 10-20-08; Am. Ord. 2009-12D, passed 12-21-09)
§ 34.23 FIREARMS TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   A Firearms Training Fund is established for the Fortville Police
Department.
   (B)   The source of funds which are to be deposited into this Fund are the
application fees collected for licenses to carry handguns under I.C. 35-47-2-3.
   (C)   This fund is to be used by the Fortville Police Department and used
exclusively for the purpose of training law enforcement officers in the proper
use of firearms or other law enforcement duties.
   (D)   The rules for proper accounting and expenditure of monies collected
and deposited into the Fund shall be those established by the State Board of
Accounts.
(`87 Code, § 2-59)
§ 34.24 FEDERAL REVENUE SHARING TRUST FUND.
   The Federal Revenue Sharing Trust Fund is established for the purposes of
receiving such federal monies and the proper disbursement of such funds
thereafter.
(`87 Code, § 2-60)
§ 34.25 LOCAL ROAD AND STREET FUND (LRS).
   The Local Road and Street Fund (LRS) is established for the purpose of
receiving applicable state funds and for expenditures permitted by statute.
(`87 Code, § 2-61)
§ 34.26 RESERVED.
§ 34.27 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby established a Rainy Day Fund to receive
transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general or special tax
levy on taxable property within the town whenever the purpose of such tax levy
has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance remains.
   (B)   Purpose. The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may be used for
the operation of the town and its various departments, when the town does not
have sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including, but not limited
to, salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment, capital
improvements, repairs and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfer. On or before December 31 of each year, the Town Council
shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and unencumbered funds
available to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, which transfer may not
exceed more than 10% of the town’s total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations. The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of
funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as
other funds are appropriated that receive tax monies, upon making a finding
that the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the fund.
(Ord. 2002-8A, passed - -02)
§ 34.28 LOCAL OPTION INCOME TAX FUND (LOIT FUND).
   As required by state law, there is hereby created a Local Option Income Tax
Fund to be known as the LOIT Fund for purposes of receiving distributions from
the Hancock County Auditor and out of which appropriations may be made
according to law for public safety purposes.
(Ord. 2011-02A, passed 2-22-11)
§ 34.29 LAW ENFORCEMENT AID FUND.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to establish a fund denominated the
Law Enforcement Aid Fund. The Fund shall be funded by contributions from
various granting agencies and civil forfeitures.
(Ord. 2006-3 A, passed 3-28-06)
§ 34.30 POLICE PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   There shall be created a Police Department Petty Cash Fund which shall
be initially funded with the sum of $2,500 from sums already budgeted to the
Police Department to be selected with the mutual consent from the Town Marshal,
the Town Council, and the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Marshal shall maintain meticulous records regarding the
use of said account which at a minimum must be similar to:
         (a)   “Guidelines for the expenditure of confidential funds published
by the U.S. Department of Criminal Justice”;
         (b)   “Guidelines for Obtaining and Accounting for Confidential Funds
used in Support of Criminal Investigations.” (Revised S.O.P. PR-INV-009), by
the Indiana State Police Department.
      (2)   In accordance with direction from the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office, the
State Board of Accounts, and the Town Council with reports to be generated no
less than quarterly regarding the use and reimbursement of said funds.
   (C)   The funds shall be used strictly and solely for the use of the Police
Department carrying out its duly associated and assigned functions.
(Ord. 2007-5A, passed 5-21-07)
§ 34.31 NONREVERTING POLICE DRUG FORFEITURE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special nonreverting fund to be known as
the Police Drug Forfeiture Account. Whenever the Town Marshal and/or his or her
designees seize funds under I.C. 34-34-1-1 or 21 USC § 881, said proceeds shall
be immediately turned over to the Clerk-Treasurer for deposit into the Police
Drug Forfeiture Account.
   (B)   Disposition of proceeds forfeited property pursuant to I.C. 34-23-1-
5 shall be deposited into the general fund of the unit employing the law
enforcement officers that seized the property and excess fund, herein defined
as the Town Marshal and/or his or her designees expense for investigation,
shall be transferred to the Treasurer of the State of Indiana for deposit in
the common school fund.
   (C)   In accordance with I.C. 34-24-1-9 proceeds forfeited under 18 USC §
981(e), 19 USC § 1616a, or 21 USC § 881(e) and any related regulations adopted
by the United States Department of Justice shall be deposited into the
nonreverting fund known as the Police Drug Forfeiture Account.
   (D)   Proceeds deposited in the fund known as the Police Drug Forfeiture
Account may only be expended with the approval of the Town Council President of
the Town for the benefit of the Police Department for purposes consistent with
federal laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-11A, passed - -08)
§ 34.32 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX FUND.
   (A)   Creation. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Fortville, Indiana, is
hereby directed to create within the funds for the town a new fund entitled the
Economic Development Income Tax Fund, into which all distributions of monies
collected through CEDIT are to be deposited and out of which all disbursements
are to be made.
   (B)   Purposes. Funds received by the Clerk-Treasurer and deposited into the
Economic Development Income Tax fund may be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   For paying, notwithstanding any other law, under a written
agreement all or a part of the interest owed by a private developer or user on
a loan extended by a financial institution or other lender to the developer or
user if the proceeds of the loan are to be used to finance an economic
development project.
      (2)   For the retirement of bonds established by state law for economic
development projects.
      (3)   For leases under state law or for leases or bonds entered into or
issued prior to the date the economic development income tax was imposed if the
purpose of the lease or bonds would have qualified as a purpose at the time the
lease was entered into or the bonds were issued.
      (4)   The construction or acquisition of, or remedial action with respect
to, a capital project for which the unit is empowered to issue general
obligation bonds or establish a fund under any statute listed in I.C. 6-1.1-
18.5-9.8.
      (5)   The retirement of bonds issued under any provision of Indiana law
for a capital project.
      (6)   The payment of lease rentals under statute for a capital project.
      (7)   Contract payments to a nonprofit corporation whose primary
corporate purpose is to assist government in planning and implementing economic
development projects.
      (8)   Operating expenses of a governmental entity that plans or
implements economic development projects.
      (9)   To the extent not otherwise allowed by state law, funding substance
removal or remedial action in a designated unit.
      (10)   Funding of a revolving fund established under I.C. 5-1-14-14.
      (11)   For any lawful purpose for which money in any of its other funds
may be used.
      (12)   For making transfers required by I.C. 36-7.5-4-2.
      (13)   For a regional venture capital fund established by state law or a
local venture capital fund established under I.C. 6-3.5-7-13.6.
   (C)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, an ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT is defined as any project that:
      (1)   The town determines will:
         (a)   Promote significant opportunities for the gainful employment of
its citizens;
         (b)   Attract a major new business enterprise to the unit; or
         (c)   Retain or expand a significant business enterprise within the
unit; and
      (2)   Involves an expenditure for:
         (a)   The acquisition of land;
         (b)   Interests in land;
         (c)   Site improvements;
         (d)   Infrastructure improvements;
         (e)   Buildings;
         (f)   Structures;
         (g)   Rehabilitation, renovation, and enlargement of buildings and
structures;
         (h)   Machinery;
         (i)   Equipment;
         (j)   Furnishings;
         (k)   Facilities;
         (l)   Administrative expenses associated with such a project,
including contract payments authorized under I.C. 6-3.5-7-13.1(b)(2)(D);
         (m)   Operating expenses authorized under I.C. 6-3.5-7-13.1(b)(2)(E);
or
         (n)   To the extent not otherwise allowed, substance removal or
remedial action in a designated unit,; or any combination of these.
(Ord. 2010-11A, passed 11-15-10)
§ 34.33 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND RATE.
   (A)   The Town Council finds that a need now exists for the re-establishment
of the Cumulative Capital Development Fund rate for the following purposes:
      (1)   For all uses as set out in I.C. § 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   This Council will adhere to the provision of I.C. 36-9-15.5. The
proposed fund will not exceed $0.0500 on each $100 of assessed valuations. Said
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2013 payable 2014.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public healing held on the third day of
June, 2013, and a certified copy of this section shall be submitted to the
Department of Local Government Finance of the State of Indiana as provided by
law. Said Cumulative Fund is subject to the approval of the Department of Local
Government Finance.
(Ord. 2013-6B, passed 6-17-13)
§ 34.34 FIRE PROTECTION TERRITORY EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the re-establishment of the Fire Protection
Territory Equipment Replacement Fund for the Vernon Township Fire Protection
Territory for all uses as set out in I.C. 36-8-19-8.5
   (B)   This Fire Protection Territory Equipment Replacement Fund is subject
to the approval of the Department of Local Government Finance.
   (C)   Vernon Township is the provider unit of the Vernon Township Fire
Protection Territory. The other participating units are the Towns of Fortville
and McCordsville, both in Hancock County. Vernon Township, as provider unit, is
authorized to establish this Fund.
   (D)   There is established a Fire Protection Territory Equipment Replacement
Fund to be used to purchase fire protection equipment, including housing.
   (E)   The Town Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-19-8.5.
   (F)   There shall be a separate levy, on all taxable property. The property
tax rate for the Fund may not exceed $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed
valuation. This tax will be levied beginning with taxes due and payable in 2023
and thereafter, continuing until reduced or rescinded.
(Ord. 2020-6C, passed 6-17-20; Am. Ord. 2020-6D, passed 6-17-20; Am. Ord. 2022-
3E, passed 4-4-22)
§ 34.35 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to State Examiner Directive 2021-1, the Council hereby
creates Fund Number 176, which is a special, non-reverting fund designated as
the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
   (B)   (1)   Any monies deposited into said Fund may only be utilized for the
following purposes:
         (a)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
         (b)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the
COVID-19 public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers
of the town that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
         (c)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the town’s most recent full fiscal year of
the prior to the public health emergency;
         (d)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure; and/or
         (e)   Funds made available may be transferred to a private non-profit
organization (as that term is defined in Paragraph 17 of Section 401 of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act — 42 U.S.C. § 11360(17)), a public
benefit corporation involved in the transportation of passengers or cargo, or a
special purpose unit of state or local government.
      (2)   Funds must be appropriated, disbursed pursuant to the Plan (defined
below) outlined herein, and disbursed pursuant to the normal claims process in
I.C. 5-11-10-1.6.
   (C)   The Council hereby establishes the ARP Plan (“Plan”). The Plan shall
require the Council hold a public hearing to discuss the use of the funds prior
to the appropriation of said funds.
(Ord. 2021-5A, passed 5-17-21)
CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
§ 34.50 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Fixed Asset Policy is being issued effective January 1, 2008. The
new policy will be referred to as the Capital Asset Policy. This Policy is
being issued to document the minimum value of capital assets to be reported on
our financial reports and to include infrastructure assets. This issuance of a
policy document is related to the implementation of a new reporting model,
Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement 34. Statement 34 will require
the town to depreciate capital assets. The capital asset threshold will be
$5,000. An asset with a value under $5,000 will be expensed in the year of
purchase. The infrastructure portion of this policy is also effective January
1, 2008.
   (B)   Town Utilities will follow this same definition of capital assets
except any item with a unit cost of $5,000 or more shall be capitalized. Assets
that are not capitalized (items < $5,000) are expensed in the year of
acquisition. Town utilities will follow the capitalization guidelines of the
Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (C)   The Town of Fortville is, by this subchapter, establishing a Capital
Asset Policy in order to provide a higher degree of control over its
considerable investment in capital assets, and to be able to demonstrate
accountability to its various constituencies: citizens, ratepayers, oversight
bodies and regulators. All public information pertaining to capital assets will
be made available in the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR).
   (D)   The purpose of establishing a Capital Policy is fivefold:
      (1)   To safeguard the investments of the citizens of Fortville;
      (2)   To fix responsibility for the custody of equipment;
      (3)   To provide a basis for formulating capital asset acquisition,
maintenance and retirement polices;
      (4)   To provide data for financial reporting;
      (5)   To demonstrate appropriate stewardship responsibility for public
assets.
   (E)   This policy will only serve to classify capital assets, including
fixed and infrastructure, for accuracy in financial reporting through the
Indiana State Board of Accounts. It does not include data processing,
programming requirements, or computer operations procedures.
(Ord. 2007-9G, passed 9-17-07)
§ 34.51 DEFINITION.
   CAPITAL ASSETS. Land, land improvements, including monuments, buildings,
building improvements, construction in progress, machinery and equipment,
vehicles and infrastructure. All land will be capitalized but not depreciated.
All items with a useful life of more than one year, and having a unit cost of
$5,000 or more shall be capitalized (including acquisitions by lease-purchase
agreements and donated items). A capital asset meeting the criteria will be
reported and depreciated in the government-wide financial statements.
      (1)   Assets that are not capitalized (items < $5,000) are expensed in
the year of acquisition. An inventory will be kept on all computers and other
equipment with a capitalized cost of < $5,000. (See § 34.57)
      (2)   (a)   Exceptions are:
            1.   Items costing less than the above limits which are permanently
installed as a part of the cost of original construction or installation of a
larger building or equipment unit will be included in the cost of the larger
unit;
            2.   Modular equipment added subsequent to original equipment
construction of a larger building or equipment unit which may be put together
to form larger units costing more than the prescribed limits will be charged to
capital assets even though the cost of individual items is less than such
units;
            3.   Cabinets, shelving, bookcases, and similar items, added
subsequent to original construction, which are custom made for a specific place
and adaptable elsewhere, will be capitalized;
         (b)   Purchases made using grant funds must comply with grant
requirements or the above procedures, whichever are the most restrictive.
(Ord. 2007-9G, passed 9-17-07)
§ 34.52 THRESHOLD LEVEL FOR CAPITAL ASSETS.
   The following schedule will be followed for the different types of capital
assets other than infrastructure assets:
                  Capitalize/Depreciate
Land                  All/Capitalize Only
Land Improvements            $5,000
Building               $5,000
Building Improvements         $5,000
Construction in Progress          All/Capitalize Only
Machinery and Equipment         $5,000
Vehicle               $5,000
Town Utility Assets            $5,000
(Ord. 2007-9G, passed 9-17-07)
§ 34.53 VALUATION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets must be recorded at actual cost. Normally the cost
recorded is the purchase price or construction costs of the asset, but also
included is any other reasonable and necessary costs incurred to place the
asset in its intended location and intended use. Such costs could include the
following:
      (1)   Legal and title fees, closing costs;
      (2)   Appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying fees;
      (3)   Damage payments;
      (4)   Land preparation costs, demolition costs;
      (5)   Architect, engineering and accounting fees;
      (6)   Insurance premiums during construction;
      (7)   Transportation charges, interest costs during construction.
   (B)   Donated or contributed assets should be recorded at their fair market
value on the date donated.
(Ord. 2007-9G, passed 9-17-07)
§ 34.54 ASSET DEFINED BY MAJOR CATEGORY.
   It is important to the maintenance of accurate records that each asset
category be precisely defined and that all persons responsible for records
maintenance be fully aware of the categorization system. This section further
clarifies the asset definitions by major category.
   (A)   Land. Land is defined as specified land, lots, parcels or acreage
including rights of way, owned by the Town of Fortville, its various
departments, boards or authorities, regardless of the method or date of
acquisition. Easements will not be included as the town does not own them, but
as an interest in land owned by another (i.e. property owner) that entitles its
holder to a specified limited use.
   (B)   Improvements other than buildings. Examples of town assets in this
category are walks, parking areas and drives, fencing, retaining walls, pools,
fountains, planters, underground sprinkler systems, and other similar items.
Examples of town utilities assets in this category are water supply mains,
collection sewers, wells, dams, fences, intake pipes, manholes, and fire
hydrants.
   (C)   Buildings.
      (1)   All structures designed and erected to house equipment services, or
functions are included. This includes systems, services, and fixtures within
the buildings, and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire escapes, canopies,
areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and all other such units that serve the
building.
      (2)   Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling, ventilating
and air handling systems, alarm systems, sound systems, surveillance systems,
passenger and freight elevators, escalators, built-in casework, walk-in coolers
and freezers, fixed shelving, and other fixed equipment are included with the
building, if owned. Communication antennas and/or towers are not included as
buildings. These are parts of the equipment units that they serve.
   (D)   Equipment. Equipment includes all other types of physical property
within the scope of the Fixed Asset Management System not previously
classified. Included within this category are office mechanical equipment,
office furniture, appliances, furnishings, machinery items, maintenance
equipment, communication equipment, police, fire, sanitation and park
department, laboratory equipment, vehicles, road equipment, aircraft, emergency
equipment, earth moving equipment, text equipment, civil defense equipment, and
data processing equipment. All supplies are excluded.
   (E)   Infrastructure.
      (1)   Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets that normally
can be preserved for a significant greater number of years than most capital
and that are normally stationary in nature. Examples include roads,
streetlights, traffic signals, drainage systems, and water systems.
Infrastructure assets do not include buildings, drives, parking lots or any
other examples given above that are incidental to property or access to the
property above.
      (2)   Additions and improvements to infrastructure, which increase the
capacity or efficiency of the asset, will be capitalized. Maintenance/repairs
will be considered as necessary to maintain the existing asset, and therefore
not capitalized. For example, patching, resurfacing, snow removal and the like,
are considered maintenance activities and will be expensed. Also, normal
department operating activities such as feasibility studies, and preliminary
engineering and design, will be expensed and not capitalized as an element of
the infrastructure asset.
      (3)   The retroactive reporting requirements for infrastructure of GASB
34 requires the town to report items put into service from 1980 forward, and
gives the town the option to report items put into service prior to 1980. The
town will report only on items put into service after 1980. Retroactive
reporting is not mandated until fiscal years beginning after January 1, 2006
which the town will comply with.
      (4)   At the network level, the asset will be classified as major if the
cost of the network item is at least 10% of the cost of all capital assets in
fiscal year 1999. A network will be defined as a group of similar assets that
serve a particular function or purpose for the Town of Fortville.
      (5)   At the subsystem level, the asset will be classified as major if
the cost of the subsystem item is at least 5% of the cost of all capital assets
in fiscal year 1999. A will subsystem will be defined as a segment of a network
of assets that serve a similar function for the Town of Fortville.
(Ord. 2007-9G, passed 9-17-07)
§ 34.55 DEPRECIATION METHODS.
   (A)   The town will be depreciating capital assets by using either
composite/group method depreciation or the straight-line method. Salvage value
will be determined on an asset-by-asset basis. Depreciation will be calculated
at year-end. Land is not depreciated according to general accepted accounting
principles.
   (B)   A network of assets is composed of all assets that provide a
particular type of service for government. A subsystem of a network of assets
is composed of all assets that make a similar portion or segment of a network
of assets. The following will be the breakdown of our networks and subsystems;
      (1)   Roads/streets network
            Subsystems: Types of Streets Curbs
      (2)   Traffic Components Network
            Subsystems: Traffic Signals Street Lights
   (C)   Composite/group network.
      (1)   Composite depreciation refers to calculating depreciation for a
collection of similar assets. A single composite rate is applied annually to
the acquisition cost of the collection as a whole. At year-end an adjustment
will be made to the total cost to account for any additions/disposals
throughout the year. The accumulated depreciation associated with it will also
be adjusted. A gain or loss will never be reported on the asset when using the
composite method. A full year’s depreciation will be taken when the asset is
placed in service and no depreciation recorded in the year it is sold or
disposed of. We will group our dissimilar assets by useful lives and our
similar assets by networks. To determine the appropriate depreciation rate for
the composite group, divide one by the number of years the assets are
depreciated. For instance a group of assets with a 25 year life will be
depreciated at 4% each year.
      (2)   Following is the list of groups we will use for depreciation:
         Composite/Group Depreciation
         (a)   Street lights - 35 years
         (b)   Traffic signals - 25 years
         (c)   Flood walls/gates - 50 years
         (d)   Roads
            1.   Cement - 10 years
            2.   Gravel - 15 years
            3.   Concrete - 30 years
            4.   Asphaltic concrete - 20 years
            5.   Brick or stone - 50 years
   (D)   Straight-line depreciation.
      (1)   All assets accounted for under the Capital Asset Policy will be
depreciated using the straight-line method of depreciation. A gain or loss on
disposal will be recorded. Following is a list of the most common useful lives:
         (a)   Vehicles - 5 years
         (b)   Office equipment - 5 years
         (c)   Office furniture - 20 years
         (d)   Heavy equipment - 10 years
         (e)   Fire trucks - 15 years
         (f)   Buildings - 50 years
         (g)   Building components (HVAC systems, roofing) - 20 years
         (h)   Leasehold improvements - useful life of asset or lease term
(whichever is shorter)
         (i)   Land improvements - structure (parking lots, athletic courts,
swimming pools) - 20 years
         (j)   Land improvements - ground work (golf course, athletic fields,
landscaping, fencing) - 20 years
         (k)   Outdoor equipment - (playground equipment, radio towers) - 15
years
         (l)   Grounds equipment - (mowers, tractors, attachments) - 7 years
         (m)   Computer hardware - 3 years
         (n)   Computer software - 5 years
   (B)   Town utilities’ useful lives are as follows:
      (1)   Water.
         (a)   Buildings and improvements - 50 years
         (b)   Transmission and distribution mains - 50 years
         (c)   Meters/hydrants -10 years
         (d)   Pumping equipment - 50 years
         (e)   Water treatment equipment - 50 years
         (f)   Reservoirs/tanks - 50 years
         (g)   Furniture and equipment - 10 years
         (h)   Other equipment - 10 years
         (i)   Transportation equipment - 10 years
         (j)   Shop and lab equipment - 10 years
         (k)   Computer equipment - 3 years
         (l)   Communications equipment - 10 years
      (2)   Sewer.
         (a)   Buildings and improvements - 50 years
         (b)   Sewer lines - 50 years
         (c)   Combined sewer overflow - 50 years
         (d)   Lift station - 50 years
         (e)   Treatment plant/equipment - 10 years
         (f)   Office equipment - 5 years
         (g)   Miscellaneous operating equipment - 5 years
         (h)   Vehicles - 5 years
(Ord. 2007-9G, passed 9-17-07)
§ 34.56 CAPITAL ASSET ACQUISITIONS.
   (A)   The method of acquisition is not a determining factor. Each department
should report items acquired by:
      (1)   Regular purchases;
      (2)   Lease purchase - see below;
      (3)   Construction by Town personnel;
      (4)   Construction by an outside contractor;
      (5)   Resolution/condemnation;
      (6)   Donation/contribution;
      (7)   Addition to an existing asset;
      (8)   Transfer from another department;
      (9)   Trade or barter;
      (10)   Annexation.
   (B)   Leased equipment should be capitalized if the lease agreement meets
any one of the following criteria:
      (1)   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by the
end of the lease term;
      (2)   The lease contains a bargain purchase option;
      (3)   The lease term is equal to 75% of the estimated economic life of
the leased property;
      (4)   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of
the lease, excluding executory costs, equals at least 90% of the fair value of
the leased property.
   (C)   Leases that do not meet any of the above criteria should be recorded
as an operating lease and reported in the notes of the financial statements.
(Ord. 2007-9G, passed 9-17-07)
§ 34.57 ASSET TRANSFERS AND DISPOSITIONS.
   (A)   Property should not be transferred, turned-in for auction, or disposed
of without prior approval of the department head. A vehicle/equipment
outprocessing checklist should be sent to the Town Controller's Office in all
cases. This form is a dual-purpose form for transfer (defined as any movement
of an asset by virtue of change in location, either by account, department,
building, floor, or room) or retirement (disposal) of property.
   (B)   The main points to be remembered when using this form are:
      (1)   Always provide sufficient detail to properly identify the asset,
most importantly the asset’s tag number or Town ID;
      (2)   Be accurate and do not overlook any of the needed entries;
      (3)   Write legibly;
      (4)   Complete each column for every asset listed on the form;
      (5)   Enter information in correct row, depending on whether you are
transferring or deleting an asset;
      (6)   Have Department Head sign at the bottom of the form return the form
to the town Controller’s Office.
   (C)   If an asset is stolen, the department should notify the Safety Manager
as well as the Town Controller’s office.
(Ord. 2007-9G, passed 9-17-07)
§ 34.58 PERIODIC INVENTORIES.
   A physical inventory of all capital assets (any item over $5,000) will be
conducted in each department on or about December 31 of every year. The Town
Controller’s office will conduct spot checks on a random basis. Department
heads will be accountable for the capital asset inventory charged to their
departments by verifying a list of their capital assets at year-end.
(Ord. 2007-9G, passed 9-17-07)
§ 34.59 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONTROLLER'S OFFICE.
   The Fiscal Officer will ensure that accounting for capital assets is being
exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory, both initially and
periodically in subsequent years. The Fiscal Officer will further ensure that
the capital asset report will be updated annually to reflect additions,
retirements, and transfers and to reflect the new, annual capital asset balance
for financial reporting purposes and the annual and accumulated depreciation
calculation.
(Ord. 2007-9G, passed 9-17-07)
§ 34.60 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the department head to act as or designate
a steward for each piece of property. The steward will become the focal point
for questions regarding the availability, condition, and usage of the asset, as
well as the contact during the physical inventory process.
   (B)   The steward shall be designated as the person to record the receipt of
the asset, to examine the asset to make sure that no damage was incurred during
shipment and to make sure that the asset was received in working order.
   (C)   The steward is also responsible for arranging for the necessary
preventative maintenance and any needed repairs to keep the asset in working
condition. It is necessary to have a responsible person available for questions
that arise during a physical inventory or when someone wants to borrow the
asset. The steward ensures that the asset is used for the purpose for which it
was acquired and that there is no personal or unauthorized use. In addition,
the steward should report any property damage or theft.
(Ord. 2007-9G, passed 9-17-07)
PURCHASING POLIES
§ 34.65 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Invitation for bids.
      (1)   All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Greenfield Daily Reporter.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be
opened.
   (B)   Request for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Greenfield Daily Reporter. The
purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposals will
be opened.
   (C)   Request for specification.  
      (1)   All notices of request for specifications shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Greenfield Daily Reporter.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
   (D)   Electronic notice. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
(Ord. 2008-9A, passed - -08)
§ 34.66 RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers.
      (1)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must be
opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during
the process of negotiation.
      (3)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may
be opened as specified in the request for specification.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers.
      (1)   The purchasing agency may receive electronic offers in response to
an invitation to bid, request for proposals or request for specifications.
      (2)   A purchasing agency may only receive an electronic offer if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (C)   Correct and withdrawal of bids.
      (1)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time
at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting
a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened.
      (2)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which bids will be opened.
   (D)   Cancellation of solicitation.  When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town’s best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(Ord. 2008-9A, passed - -08)
§ 34.67 PROTECTION OF OFFERS: STATUS OF DOCUMENTS AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The Clerk-Treasurer of
Fortville, or the purchasing agent who receives offers, shall retain all offers
received in a secure location prior to the date and time at which offers will
be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening
of the offers.
   (B)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened, the
purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
   (C)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the time of the bid opening, unless the bid opening is delayed, as
authorized in this subchapter or any other statute or ordinance.
   (D)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
(Ord. 2008-9A, passed - -08)
§ 34.68 DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS RESPONDING TO A REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   The purchasing agent may conduct discussions with parties who are submitting
proposals. Final offers may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit
proposals and are determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for
a contract award.
(Ord. 2008-9A, passed - -08)
§ 34.69 DELAY OF OPENINGS OF OFFER.
   When the Town Council makes a written determination that is in the town’s
best interest, offers may be opened after the time stated in the solicitation.
The date, time and place of the rescheduled opening must be announced at the
time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(Ord. 2008-9A, passed - -08)
§ 34.70 EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.
   (B)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility. If
evidence of financial responsibility is required, the solicitation must
indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified
check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases over $100,000.  The solicitation shall include a requirement
that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate
the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is
required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
(Ord. 2008-9A, passed - -08)
§ 34.71 USE OF RFP FOR PURCHASES OF DESIGNATED TYPES OF SUPPLIES.
   If the Town Council determines that it is either not practicable or not
advantageous to purchase certain types of supplies by sealed competitive
bidding, they shall authorize the appropriate purchasing agent to receive
proposals.
(Ord. 2008-9A, passed - -08)
§ 34.72 MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price adjustments. Any purchasing agent for the town may include
provisions to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following
provisions for price adjustments may be included:
      (1)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in the
contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (4)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contacting parties may mutually agree upon; or
   (B)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral rights of the town.  The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the
purchasing agent, or the Town Council, to order changes in the work within the
scope of the contract or to order temporary work stoppage or delays in time of
performance.
   (D)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(Ord. 2008-9A, passed - -08)
§ 34.73 PURCHASES.
   This section applies to all purchases which are defined as small purchases
under I.C. 5-22-8-2.
   (A)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of
less than $5,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
   (B)   In the event the purchase is between $5,000 and $25,000, the
purchasing agent making the purchase shall receive prices either by phone, in
writing or in person from at least three suppliers.
   (C)   The purchasing agent shall keep a file for purchases made under this
section with the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and phone number of each supplier who provided a
price;
      (2)   The price provided by each supplier;
      (3)   The supplier chosen and the reason for the choice if the supplier
did not provide the lowest price;
      (4)   The reasons why less than three suppliers were not contacted.
   (D)   Purchases between $25,000 and $75,000. Pursuant to I.C. 5-22-8-3,
purchases between $25,000 and $75,000 may be made by the purchasing agent for
the town by inviting quotes from at least three persons known to deal in the
lines or classes of supplies to be purchased. The purchasing agent shall mail
an invitation to quote to the persons described above at least seven days
before the time fixed for receiving quotations. If the purchasing agent
receives a satisfactory quote, the purchasing agent shall award the contract to
the lowest responsible and responsive offer for each line or class of supplies
required, subject to approval by the Town Council. The purchasing agent may
reject all quotes. If the purchasing agent does not receive a quote from a
responsible and responsive offeror, the purchasing agent may make a special
purchase pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-22-10-10.
   (E)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town purchases and
shall be purchased unless the town determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the Untied States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparable priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(Ord. 2008-9A, passed - -08)
CHAPTER 35: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
35.01   Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
35.02   Payment of fines
   
35.03   Schedule of fines
   
35.04   Proceeds to be placed in General Fund
   
35.05   Allocation of funds
§ 35.01 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   Pursuant to I.C. 33-36-2-1 et seq. and all Acts amendatory or supplemental
thereto, there is hereby created an Ordinance Violations Bureau to be
denominated the Fortville Ordinance Violations Bureau. The Clerk-Treasurer of
the town, or his or her appointed deputy, shall be considered the Violations
Clerk, having the duties and responsibilities set forth under I.C. 33-36-2-3,
including, but not limited to, the ability to accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to $250 in ordinance violation cases.
(Ord. 2010-12A, passed 1-17-11)
§ 35.02 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   (A)   A person who has been cited for violating one of the ordinances
designated by the Town Council may pay the amount designated by the Town
Council from time to time to the Fortville Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (B)   Failure to pay the penalty within five business days will result in an
action brought by the town to collect such greater penalties as are permitted
by the ordinance that is violated.
   (C)   The schedule of fines to be paid, pursuant to this section, shall be
all fines created by all ordinances within the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Fortville, Indiana, in existence as of December 1, 2010, all ordinances
amendatory or supplemental thereto, and any fines imposed by any subsequent
ordinance.
(Ord. 2010-12A, passed 1-17-11)
§ 35.03 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Schedule of fines. Except for violations listed in division (B) below,
for all violations of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Fortville, Indiana,
payable through the Ordinance Violations Bureau, the following schedule of
fines shall be imposed, which may only be paid by cash, cashier’s check or
money order made payable to the Town of Fortville, 714 E. Broadway, Fortville,
IN 46040, within 14 days of issuance of the notice of violation:
 
Violation                                                          Fine
(1)   Miscellaneous Motor Vehicle
   (i)   Stop sign violations (
Ch. 72, Sch. IV)
   (ii)   Parking violations (§§                        $50.00
71.01 -                                                         $25.00
71.08;
Ch. 73, Sch. II -
V)
(2)   Speeding (
Ch. 72, Sch. I)                                                 $65.00
   (i)   1 - 10 MPH over posted limit                     $75.00
   (ii)   11-20 MPH over posted limit                     $85.00
   (iii)   21 - 25 MPH over posted limit
                                                                $200.00, unless
                                                                permit obtained
                                                                within 10 days
                                                                of receiving
                                                                notice of
(3)   Alarm System Violation (§                             violation
97.99)                                                          5th false
   (i)   No permit (§                                    alarm/year -
97.99(A))                                                       $75.00
   (ii)   False alarm (§                                 6th false
97.99(B))                                                       alarm/year -
                                                                $150.00
                                                                7th and
                                                                subsequent
                                                                false alarm/
                                                                year - $200.00
(4)   Curfew Violations (§
130.01)                                                         $50.00
   (i)   First offense                                    $100.00
   (ii)   Second offense                                  $250.00
   (iii)   Third offense
                                                                $25.00
(5)   All Other Violations (Except for Violations Listed in ($25.00 + $10.00
   (i)   First offense                                    X # of prior
   (ii)   Subsequent offenses                             offenses same
                                                                ordinance
 
   (B)   Violations excluded from schedule. Violations of the Code of
Ordinances of the Town of Fortville, Indiana for the following specific
ordinances are excluded from the Schedule of Fines in division (A) and shall be
subject to the respective terms and provisions set forth under the Code of
Ordinances of the Town of Fortville, Indiana for each including, but not
limited to, the monetary and non-monetary penalties:
(1) §     Vehicle weight limits
    70.16
(2) §     Cutting weeds and rank vegetation
    92.03
(3) §     Unsightly premises
    92.27
(4) §     Licensing
    93.02
(5) §     Clearance of private trees over public right-of-way
    95.10
(6) §     Public nuisance of tree, shrub, or groundcover
    95.15
(7) §     Harming public trees
    95.19
(8) §     License of tree care firm on public trees
    95.20
(9) §     Unsafe buildings
    150.02
 
   (C)   Non-monetary penalties. In addition to the fines provided in division
(A) above, the town may also enforce any non-monetary penalty and/or remedy
provide in the ordinance for the violation including, but not limited to,
towing.
   (D)   Conflicting penalties. Any provision contained in any prior ordinance
that conflicts with the Schedule of Fines provided in division (A) above is
hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2011-4A, passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord. 2011-5A, passed 5-16-11; Am. Ord. 2019-
4A, passed 5-20-19)
§ 35.04 PROCEEDS TO BE PLACED IN GENERAL FUND.
   (A)   The proceeds from the Ordinance Violations Bureau shall be placed into
the General Fund of the town unless otherwise designated within the specific
code provision or ordinance subject to this chapter.
   (B)   Four dollars of the proceeds collected for each violation shall be
allocated to the Police Training Fund.
(Ord. 2011-5B, passed 5-16-11)
§ 35.05 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected by the Ordinance Violations Bureau shall be allocated as
follows:
   (A)   Four dollars of every penalty assigned for an ordinance violation
shall be allocated to the Fortville Police Department (FPD) for training.
   (B)   The remaining funds after the $4.00 for training that has been
assigned to the FPD shall be allocated as follows:
      (1)   Twenty percent to the FPD, with consideration for the funds to be
used for training and equipment.
      (2)   Twenty percent for streets, with consideration for funds to be used
for trails, curbs, sidewalks, and lighting.
      (3)   Five percent for Fortville’s parks, with consideration for funds to
be used towards security.
      (4)   Five percent to the Mt. Vernon School Corporation to be used at the
school’s discretion.
      (5)   Fifty percent to be held for the General Fund, with consideration
for the funds to be used for the HSA contributions and/or budget shortfalls.
(Ord. 2013-7C, passed 7-15-13)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN COURT
Section
   
36.01   Creation
   
36.01   Town Judge
   
36.03   Powers
§ 36.01 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created for the town a Town Court known as the Town
Court of Fortville, Indiana “Town Court”.
   (B)   The Town Court shall be opened and operational as soon as practical
after January 1, 2008 at the discretion of the Town Council of the town.
(Ord. 2006-11A, passed - -06)
§ 36.02 TOWN JUDGE.
   (A)   The Town Council, upon the effective date of this chapter, directs
that the newly created office of Town Judge for the Town Court be filled when
said office is placed on the ballot for the municipal election to be held
November 6, 2007 and thereafter in accordance with the Indiana Code.
   (B)   A candidate for Town Judge shall be a resident of the Town of
Fortville and registered to vote in Hancock County, Indiana pursuant to I.C. 3-
8-1-1.5.
   (C)   The Town Judge may employ such persons to work for the Town Court as
are approved in advance by the Town Council and funds appropriated to pay their
salaries and any applicable benefits.
   (D)   The Town Judge, upon appointment as provided for herein, and any
successory, shall receive an annual salary to be established by the Town
Council, payable in 12 equal monthly payments. The salary shall not commence
until the Town Court is functional and operating and may be changed by the Town
Council at their discretion, but no more frequently than annually.
(Ord. 2006-11A, passed - -06)
§ 36.03 POWERS.
   (A)   The Town Court shall be operated and conducted pursuant to and in
accordance with the statutory powers and authority granted by the laws of the
State of Indiana.
   (B)   The Town Judge of the Town Court shall be vested with powers, duties
and responsibilities provided by the laws of the State of Indiana to judges of
town courts and shall be bound by all applicable codes and ethics of judicial
conduct and administration.
(Ord. 2006-11A, passed - -06)
CHAPTER 37: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
Section
   
37.01   Short title
   
37.02   Purpose
   
37.03   Definitions
   
37.04   Findings
   
37.05   Process of establishing a covered account
   
37.06   Access to covered account information
   
37.07   Credit card payments
   
37.08   Sources and types of red flags
   
37.09   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
37.10   Updating the program
   
37.11   Program administration
   
37.12   Outside service providers
   
37.13   Treatment of address discrepancies
   
37.14   Methods of confirming consumer addresses
§ 37.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This policy shall be known as the Identity Theft Prevention Program
(hereinafter “program”).
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.02 PURPOSE.
   This policy is adopted to comply with the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act and federal regulations promulgated at 16 CFR § 681.2 in order
to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying and detecting
identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a manner that
will prevent identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   COVERED ACCOUNT. 
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, utility account, checking account, or savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefor.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes utility companies
and telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   NOTICE OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCY. A notice sent to a user by a consumer
reporting agency pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 1681(c)(h)(l), that informs the user
of a substantial difference between the address for the consumer that the user
provided to request the consumer report and the address(es) in the agency’s
file for the consumer.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information bank account information and drivers’
license information and for a natural person includes their social security
number, mother’s birth name, and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the city.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.04 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Town of Fortville Utility Department (known hereafter as the
Utility Department) is a creditor pursuant to 16 CFR § 681.2 due to its
provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in
arrears.
   (B)   Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of services
include water, sewer, and stormwater utility.
   (C)   The Utility Department’s previous experience with identity theft
related to covered accounts is as follows: No known incidents.
   (D)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, making payments on such accounts, and providing account
information, access in person or via phone or website have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (E)   The Utility Department limits access to personal identifying
information to those employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening
or restoring covered accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts.
Information provided to such employees is entered directly into the Utility
Department’s computer system and is not otherwise recorded.
   (F)   The Utility Department determines that there is a low risk of identity
theft occurring in the following ways (if any):
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account, or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account or accounts;
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account of another person’s credit card, bank account, or other method of
payment.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.05 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   As a precondition to opening a covered account, each applicant shall provide
name, address, telephone number, owner of property and occupancy date with
personal identifying information of the customer. Such information shall be
entered directly into the Utility Department’s computer system and shall not
otherwise be recorded. Each account shall be assigned an account number which
shall be unique to that account.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.06 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized personnel.
   (B)   Such password(s) shall be changed on a regular basis by each
individual user, shall be at least eight characters in length, and shall
contain letters, numbers and symbols.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the Utility Billing Manager and the password changed
immediately.
   (D)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential, (to the extent allowed by law) and any request or
demand for such information shall be immediately forwarded to the Utility
Billing Manager.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.07 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that credit card payments that are made over the internet
are processed through a third party service provider, such third party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone may or may not be
written on a payment slip and entered into the credit card payment machine. Any
credit card information written on a payment slip will be immediately destroyed
(shredded) upon payment verification.
   (C)   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include
only the last four digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
   (D)   When using a credit/debit card to pay for the utility service in
person, the payer must provide a second piece of I.D.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.08 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account, or accepting payment for a
covered account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity
theft. Such red flags shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies or
service providers. Examples of such alerts are:
      (1)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report.
      (2)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer
report.
      (3)   A notice of address discrepancy discovered through the Hancock
County Geographic Information System.
   (B)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered or
forged;
      (2)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
      (3)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
      (4)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file, such as a signature card or a
recent check; or
      (5)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identifying information. Examples include:
      (1)   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with external
information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
         (a)   The address does not match any address in the consumer report.
      (2)   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address, is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor.
      (3)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
mail drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity.
      (4)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other applicants
or customers.
      (5)   The address or telephone number provided is the same or similar to
the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number
of applicants or customers.
      (6)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete.
      (7)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor.
      (8)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
   (D)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
Examples include:
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an account,
there is a request for the addition of authorized users on the account.
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns, such as where the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments.
      (3)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account, such as:
         (a)   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments.
      (4)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s account.
      (5)   The Utility Department is notified that the customer is not
receiving paper account statements.
      (6)   The Utility Department is notified of unauthorized charges or
transactions in connection with a customer’s account.
      (7)   The Utility Department is notified by a customer, law enforcement
or another person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged
in identity theft.
   (E)   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to covered
accounts.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.09 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
Fortville Police Department. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems
that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Utility
Billing Manager, who may in his or her discretion determine that no further
action is necessary. If the Utility Billing Manager in his or her discretion
determines that further action is necessary, one or more of the following
responses as determined to be appropriate by the Utility Billing Manager shall
be performed:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting the
customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed the
customer’s covered account:
         (a)   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes, or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
         (b)   Close the account;
      (3)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer and
decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event that
the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such access
has caused additional charges to accrue;
      (4)   Notify law enforcement in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; or
      (5)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   In the event that an employee responsible for or involved in opening a
new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity
theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee shall use
his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red
flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
Fortville Police Department. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems
that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Utility
Billing Manager, who may in his or her discretion determine that no further
action is necessary. If the Utility Billing Manager in his or her discretion
determines that further action is necessary, one or more of the following
responses as determined to be appropriate by the Utility Billing Supervisor
shall be performed:
      (1)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
      (2)   Deny the application for the new account;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
      (4)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.10 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   The Utility Department shall annually review and, as deemed necessary,
update the Identity Theft Prevention Program along with any relevant red flags
in order to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and
soundness of the Utility Department and its covered accounts from identity
theft. In so doing, the Utility Department .shall consider the following
factors and exercise its discretion in amending the program:
   (A)   The Utility Department experiences with identity theft;
   (B)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
   (C)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft;
   (D)   Updates in the types of accounts that the Utility Department offers or
maintains; and
   (E)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.11 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Utility Billing Manager is responsible for oversight of the
program and for program implementation. The Utility Billing Manager is
responsible for reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding compliance with
red flag requirements and with recommending material changes to the program, as
necessary in the opinion of the Utility Billing Manager, to address changing
identity theft risks and to identify new or discontinued types of covered
accounts. Any recommended material changes to the program shall be submitted to
Town Manager.
   (B)   The Utility Billing Manager will report to Town Manager at least
annually on compliance with the red flag requirements. The report shall be due
no later than December 31 each year and shall address material matters related
to the program and evaluate issues, including but not limited to:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the program policies and procedures in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the Program.
   (C)   The Utility Billing Manager is responsible for providing training to
all employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the Identity
Theft Prevention Program. The Utility Billing Manager shall exercise his or her
discretion in determining die amount and substance of training necessary.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.12 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the Utility Department engages a service provider to
perform an activity in connection with one or more covered accounts the Utility
Billing Manager shall exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such
arrangements in order to ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the
service provider’s activities are conducted in accordance with policies and
procedures, agreed upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags
that may arise in the performance of the service provider’s activities and take
appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.13 TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES.
   (A)   In the event that the Utility Department receives a notice of address
discrepancy, the employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses for the
purpose of providing the service or account sought by the consumer shall
perform one or more of the following activities, as determined to be
appropriate by such employee:
   (B)   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
      (1)   Information the Utility Department obtains and uses to verify a
consumer’s identity in accordance with the requirements of the Customer
Information Program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. § 5318(1);
      (2)   Information the Utility Department maintains in its own records,
such as applications for service, change of address notices, other customer
account records or tax records; or
      (3)   Information the Utility Department obtains from third-party sources
that are deemed reliable by the relevant employee; or
      (4)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
§ 37.14 METHODS OF CONFIRMING CONSUMER ADDRESSES.
   The employee charged with confirming consumer addresses may, in his or her
discretion, confirm the accuracy of an address through one or more of the
following methods:
   (A)   Verifying the address with the consumer;
   (B)   Reviewing the Utility Department records to verify the consumer’s
address;
   (C)   Verifying the address through third party sources; or
   (D)   Using other reasonable processes.
(Ord. 2009-8A, passed 8-17-09)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
51.   WATER SERVICE
      
52.   SEWER SERVICE
      
53.   STORMWATER DRAINAGE, EROSION, AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REGULATIONS
      
54.   GARBAGE COLLECTION AND RECYCLING SERVICES
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITIES: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
50.01   Conflict of law; definitions
   
50.02   Normal business hours
   
50.03   Establishing new service
   
50.04   Deposits
   
50.05   Authorization for the release of information; identity theft prevention
   
50.06   Billing; delinquent payments; disconnection
   
50.07   Voluntarily discontinuing service
   
50.08   Financial responsibility for public works services
   
50.09   Service fees
   
50.10   Contesting service fees
   
50.11   Reconnections
   
50.12   Meter test requests
   
50.13   Bad checks
   
50.14   Summer credits
   
50.15   Leak adjustments
   
50.16   Water meter accessibility and tampering
   
50.17   Methods of payment
   
50.18   After-hours emergencies
   
50.19   Delinquent account; writeoffs
   
50.20   Capacity and connection fees
§ 50.01 CONFLICT OF LAW; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   These policies and procedures have been adopted pursuant to and in
accordance with Indiana law. Any conflict between state law, including relevant
provisions of the Indiana Administrative Code, shall be resolved in accordance
with state law and shall not render void any other policy or procedure not in
conflict with law.
   (B)   To the extent any matter is not addressed in these policies and
procedures shall be governed by the relevant provisions of the Indiana Code,
the Indiana Administrative Code, or both.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.02 NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS.
   (A)   Normal business hours are 8:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday, except on scheduled holidays.
   (B)   The Town Manager may find it necessary to close the office from time
to time. In this event, a sign will be posted on the front door to notify
customers when the office is expected to reopen.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.03 ESTABLISHING NEW SERVICE.
   Anyone that desires to establish water and/or sewer service through the town
public utility services must first provide each of the following:
   (A)   A complete, accurate and executed utility service agreement in a form
and manner presented by the town. Said form(s) shall be made available at the
front office of the public utility administrative building and on the town's
website.
   (B)   A valid, state-issued photo identification card or driver's license,
or valid passport, a copy of which shall be maintained by the town.
   (C)   Written legal documentation demonstrating the individual's interest in
the property for which the service is to be provided. This may be secured
through a written and executed lease/rental agreement, a form provided by the
utility office, the title to the property, a closing statement secured in the
purchase of the property, a tax assessment statement, or other properly
recorded legal document verifying the individual's interest in and/or ownership
of the property.
   (D)   Full payment of any required deposit.
   (E)   Payment in full of any prior unpaid delinquencies due and payable to
the town for prior utility services.
   (F)   For rental and non-owner occupied properties, the town reserves the
right to require the owner of the property to complete the requirements for
establishing new service.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.04 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   A water security deposit shall be paid for all new accounts at the
same time service is established. Security deposits shall not accrue interest.
(See current rate policy for amount.)
   (B)   The deposits shall be applied towards the final bill for utility
services rendered. Any unused portion of the deposit shall be refunded to the
account holder within 30 days of the final billing statement. Refunds shall be
mailed to the last known address which was provided by the account holder to
the town.
   (C)   If the account holder is moving from one property within the town's
service area and establishing service at another property within the town's
service area, the deposit(s) may be applied to any required deposit(s) for the
new service address.
   (D)   (1)   The deposit, less any outstanding penalties and service fees,
shall be refunded to the depositor after a notarized statement from the
depositor that as of a certain date the property being served:
         (a)   Has been conveyed or transferred to another person; or
         (b)   A structure has been removed and is no longer connected to any
part of the municipal sewage system.
      (2)   A statement under division (1) must include the name and address of
the person to whom the property is conveyed or transferred.
   (E)   Deposits that remain unclaimed by the depositor for more than seven
years after the termination of the services for which the deposit was made
become the property of the town. Indiana Code § 32-34-1 (unclaimed property)
does not apply to this deposit.
   (F)   If a depositor fails to satisfy costs and fees within 60 days after
the termination of the depositor's use or ownership of the property served, the
depositor forfeits the deposit and all accrued interest. The forfeited amount
shall be applied to the depositor's outstanding fees. Any excess that remains
unpaid may be collected by the town as allowed by law.
   (G)   The Fortville Town Council shall establish by separate ordinance the
deposit required as described under this section. (See current rate policy for
amount.)
   (H)   The owner of a property may have the water turned on for a period of
five business days for inspection and maintenance of the property. A security
deposit will not be required in this instance; however, the property owner will
be responsible for the cost of service and the turn on fee.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13; Am. Ord. 2016-8A, passed 8-1-16)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 32-34-1 repealed by P.L. 141-2021, SEC. 19.
§ 50.05 AUTHORIZATION FOR THE RELEASE OF INFORMATION; IDENTITY THEFT
PREVENTION.
   (A)   The Fortville Town Council has established by separate ordinance a
program to prevent identity theft.
   (B)   Anyone receiving customer information shall take all necessary action
to protect that customer from identity theft.
   (C)   Employees are not to give out any personal information, absent a
release authorizing the disclosure of the same. Account charges and payments
shall not be construed as personal information, and may be released if the
request is for information related to the address and not for a particular
customer.
   (D)   Anyone that desires access to complete account information regarding
water or sewer service provided through the town public utility service, for an
account held in the name of another, shall either be specifically named on the
utility service agreement or provide an authorization for the release of such
information executed by the account holder in a form and manner presented by
the town. For the purposes of this section, a properly executed Indiana Power
of Attorney shall be an acceptable form. Additionally, a release of information
included in a lease agreement shall be an acceptable form authorizing such
release so long as the lease agreement specifically provides for such. An
example of acceptable language would be: Tenant authorizes landlord to obtain
account information for any utilities provided to the property.
   (E)   Said authorization forms shall be made available at the front office
of the public utility administrative building and on the town's website.
   (F)   Said authorization forms shall designate the manner in which such
information may be communicated to the authorized person(s), i.e. verbally, in
person/by telephone, by email and/or in writing.
   (G)   Said authorization forms shall further designate that the execution of
such document enables the authorized person(s) access to all information
regarding said account, including but not limited usage, payment history,
delinquency information, current and forwarding contact information, and all
other information regarding the use and services rendered by the town public
utility for said account holder.
   (H)   Information regarding account information shall not be released to
persons not specifically designated on the utility service agreement, absent an
executed authorization for the release of such information. For the purposes of
this section, a properly executed Indiana Power of Attorney shall be an
acceptable form.
   (I)   Persons specifically designated on the utility service agreement shall
have equal access to all information regarding the account, in the same manner
as the account holder.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.06 BILLING; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   All bills for payment of utility service and/or fees shall contain the
contact information for the utility office in clear and visible format
including the following information:
         Fortville Water Works
         714 East Broadway
         Fortville, Indiana 46040-1557
      (1)   The amount due for water, wastewater, storm water charges, and a
combined amount due;
      (2)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill ("due date");
      (3)   The amount due including late charges, if payment is not received
by the town on or before the due date; and,
      (4)   The following notice: Immediate water disconnect if not paid in
full by (insert date).
   (B)   All meters shall be read no later than the twentieth of each month.
All bills shall be mailed no later than the first business day of the month
following the reading and shall be payable in full by open of business on the
first business day following the seventeenth of the month.
   (C)   Rates and charges for the use of and the service rendered by the town
for utility services shall be established by separate ordinance issued by the
Fortville Town Council (see current rate policy for amount).
   (D)   Bills paid after the due date shall be assessed a late charge for both
water and sewer at a rate set forth by separate ordinance issued by the
Fortville Town Council. (See current rate policy for amount.) Late fees shall
not be assessed until the open of business on the first business day following
the seventeenth of the month, if the bill has not otherwise been received at
that time.
   (E)   Discontinuation of service due to nonpayment shall be made on or as
soon as reasonably possible after the disconnection date. Discontinuation of
service due to nonpayment shall be made no earlier than the date set forth on
the billing statement. Notice as provided on the billing statement of the
discontinuation of service shall be sufficient and no additional notice shall
be necessary prior to discontinuation of service.
   (F)   Water service may be disconnected for payment by check that is
returned for insufficient funds as set forth in §
50.13 below.
   (G)   As a courtesy, reasonable effort should be made to send a letter to
the property owner, notifying the owner that service has been disconnected
within 30 days of the actual disconnection. Further notice need not be given if
service is reinstated.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.07 VOLUNTARILY DISCONTINUING SERVICE.
   (A)   Any account holder that desires to discontinue utility service, or
otherwise remove themselves from financial responsibility of further usage and
charges must accurately complete and sign a discontinue request in a form and
manner presented by the town.
   (B)   Said forms shall be made available at the front office of the public
utility administrative building.
   (C)   Discontinuation of services shall not prevent the town from seeking
collection of any unpaid fees for services rendered by the utility.
   (D)   If an account holder has a deposit held by the town, it shall be
applied to the final bill, or as otherwise prescribed under §
50.03 above.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.08 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES.
   (A)   Financial responsibility for public works services associated with
wastewater and storm water, may only be transferred with written verification
evidencing the valid and legal transfer of ownership of the property.
   (B)   The town shall make an effort to collect any fees for public works
services from the named account holder; however, the town reserves the right to
reject the transfer of the ultimate legal financial responsibility for such
public works services absent verification of legal transfer of ownership of the
property.
   (C)   If a bill becomes 60 days past due, then, on the sixty-first day (or
as soon as reasonably practical thereafter, but not later than when the bill is
80 days past due), notice shall be sent to the property owner, if the property
is not occupied by the owner, stating that a lien shall be placed on the
property for the unpaid sewer bill.
   (D)   The town authorizes the Utility Clerks and/or Office Manager to file a
lien on unpaid Public Works Services pursuant to the rules and procedures set
forth under Indiana Code.
   (E)   Liens shall be submitted on a quarterly basis; however no lien for a
rental or non-owner occupied property shall be submitted until at least 60 days
has elapsed from the date notice was submitted to the property owner as set
forth under division (B) above.
   (F)   The utility office will make every effort to collect outstanding
balances due. However, due to the cost of filing liens, the utility shall not
file a lien for a sewer balance of $40 or less.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.09 SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   A "reconnection fee" for both water service and sewer service shall be
charged if utility service is discontinued due to nonpayment, bad check or
delinquent payment. A "reconnection fee" for just water service shall be
charged if utility service was discontinued for any other reason, not
specifically identified herein. No "reconnection fee" shall be charged if
utility service was discontinued for purpose of maintenance/service/repair of
the utility by the town. Reconnection fees must be paid in full during normal
business hours at the administrative building of the utility, before service
will be reestablished.
   (B)   An "after hour service fee" shall be charged if a service call is
performed outside of normal business hours. After hour service fees shall be
assessed on the next billing cycle.
   (C)   A "bad check fee" shall be charged if a check for payment of any
utility service is not honored, for any reason, by the bank upon which the
check was written. Bad check fees must be paid during normal business hours at
the administrative building of the utility, before service is reestablished, or
as otherwise described below.
   (D)   A "meter test fee" shall be charged if a meter test is requested by an
account holder or property owner and the results indicate that the meter is
functioning within industry standards as defined under the AWWA standards. No
meter test charge shall be assessed if a meter test is conducted by request or
otherwise and the meter is not functioning within industry standards as defined
under AWWA standards. Meter test charges shall be assessed on the next billing
cycle if requested by the account holder. If requested by the property owner
and that person is not also the account holder, a separate bill shall be sent
to the property owner and payable within 30 days of the billing statement.
   (E)   To the extent any customer violates a town ordinance regarding damage
to or obstruction of any water, sewer, or storm sewer system, the customer
shall be cited for an ordinance violation and fined $250 which shall be
submitted to the town's Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13; Am. Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
§ 50.10 CONTESTING SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   Any service fees not exceeding $500 may be contested by submitting
notice of the dispute in writing to the Town Manager no later than 30 days
after the fee assessment. In the event the dispute is not resolved, the
customer may bring the matter before the Fortville Town Council, by filing
written request to contest the service fee with the Fortville Town Council
President no later than ten days after the Town Manager has provided written
notice of his/her decision.
   (B)   Any disputed service fees exceeding $500 may be contested by filing
written request to contest the service fee with the Fortville Town Council
President no later than 30 days after the Town Manager has provided written
notice of his/her decision.
   (C)   Only the person to whom the fee is assessed may contest the service
fee.
   (D)   Filing a written request to contest the service fee shall not prevent
discontinuation of services as otherwise provided herein or stay the payment of
the service fee, except as specifically provided in these policies and
procedures.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a written request to contest a service fee before the
Fortville Town Council, the matter shall be placed on the agenda and heard by
the Fortville Town Council at a regularly scheduled public meeting within 30
days of the written request to contest. The matter shall be determined by a
majority vote of the Fortville Town Council.
   (F)   If the Fortville Town Council determines that the service fee was not
proper or otherwise should not have been assessed, then reimbursement of any
payment made for the service fee shall be made by the Town within three
business days following the determination.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.11 RECONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Utility service may not be reconnected outside of normal business
hours, if the discontinuation of service resulted from nonpayment, bad check or
delinquent payment of an account.
   (B)   Reconnection of services shall be made as soon as reasonably possible
after payment of all outstanding delinquencies of water service and/or sewer
service bills, service fees, bad check fees and deposits, as may be applicable.
   (C)   Payment for outstanding delinquencies, service fees, bad check fees
and deposits shall be made during normal business hours at the administrative
building of the utility.
   (D)   Utility service shall not be reconnected for partial payment of
combined amount due for water, sewer, and storm water service bills. All fees
and delinquencies shall be paid in full before service may be reinstated.
   (E)   Subject to an "after hour service fee" referenced and paid as
described above, utility service which is discontinued for reasons other than
nonpayment, bad check or delinquent payment, may be reconnected outside of
normal business hours, as soon as reasonably possible, providing that an
employee of the utility department authorized to perform such duty is available
to perform the task.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.12 METER TEST REQUESTS.
   (A)   Account holders or property owners may request a meter test by
submitting a Meter Test Request Form to the town, which are available at the
front office of the public utility administrative building.
   (B)   Meter tests shall be made as soon as reasonably possible after the
submission of a Meter Test Request Form.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.13 BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   The town shall notify the account holder by certified mail if a check
is not honored by the bank, as soon as reasonably possible. The notice shall
set forth the bad check fee as well as the date upon which utility service will
be discontinued or has been discontinued as determined below.
   (B)   An account holder has ten business days after the date the notice of
the bad check was issued to tender payment sufficient to cover the amount for
which the check was written and the bad check fee.
   (C)   Payment must be tendered in the form of cash, cashier's check or money
order and must be paid to the administrative building of the utility, during
normal business hours. Failure to tender said payment within the period
described shall result in the immediate termination of utility service.
Reconnection of service shall be subject to the provisions set forth above.
   (D)   If the check was written for payment of utility fees after the
designated due date or if written for payment of a deposit, the ten-day period
to make full payment to the town to cover the bad check referenced above, shall
not apply, and utility service shall be discontinued as soon as reasonably
possible upon notice having been received from the bank. No notice shall be
required to the account holder if service is terminated under this provision.
   (E)   The disconnection policy set forth in §
50.06 shall still apply in the event the account holder submits a "bad check"
to the town.
   (F)   Any check not honored by the bank and for which payment has not been
made, shall be tendered to the Hancock County Prosecutor's Office for
prosecution.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.14 SUMMER CREDITS.
   Effective January 1, 2012, and for all dates thereafter, the town shall no
longer provide summer credits and/or adjustments for sprinkler credits, pool
credits or other summer credits previously established under prior ordinance or
practice.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.15 LEAK ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Upon request, or upon discovery of a leak by utility personnel, the
town may adjust an account holder's sewer fee if a water leak has occurred.
   (B)   The adjustment shall be for the billing cycle during which the leak
occurred, not to exceed two consecutive months.
   (C)   The adjustment shall be calculated so that the sewer fee charge during
the month(s) of the leak is equal to the average sewer fee charged during the
three months prior to the leak, for the property incurring the leak.
   (D)   Before an adjustment is made, the account holder must have the leak
repaired and provide written verification evidencing the repair was made. The
town may inspect the property, upon notice, to verify and/or confirm the leak
and/or the repair.
   (E)   An adjustment may not be made if the leak caused water to enter the
sanitary sewer system.
   (F)   Only one leak adjustment shall be permitted per property during a 12
month period.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.16 WATER METER ACCESSIBILITY AND TAMPERING.
   (A)   Water meter pits must be in a location that will permit accessibility
for reading of the water meter as well as replacement/repair/maintenance/
inspection of the water meter and pits.
   (B)   Water meter pits must remain free of obstruction so as to enable such
accessibility.
   (C)   Property owners shall be responsible for ensuring that the water meter
pit(s) remains free of obstruction so as to enable such accessibility.
   (D)   Prohibited obstructions shall include, but not be limited to dogs,
kennels, shrubbery, flower beds, vehicles, or other objects placed over, near
or on the pit such that accessibility is obstructed, limited or otherwise
requires the removal of such objects.
   (E)   If an obstruction exists which limits the accessibility as described
herein, the property owner shall be notified in writing of the obstruction and
shall have 24 hours after the issuance of the written notice to remove the
obstruction so as to provide the necessary accessibility required by the town.
If the obstruction is not removed within 24 hours, the town may remove the
obstruction and the property owner may be fined an "obstruction fee" as set out
in the town's Ordinance Violations Bureau Schedule of Fees.
   (F)   The water meter pit, piping and lid are owned by the property owner;
however, the property owner is responsible for ensuring that meter pit, piping
and lid are maintained in a safe and proper condition according to the town's
specifications.
   (G)   All meters, meter valves and/or remotes damaged by a customer which
require replacement shall be assessed the cost of labor and material and
charged to the customer.
   (H)   Any damage to these items should be immediately reported to the town
for proper inspection and repair.
   (I)   A violation of this section is subject to a fine of $250 and/or
service may be discontinued to the customer who fails to maintain the meter pit
according to current town specifications.
   (J)   If a customer request to have a meter pit relocated, all costs
associated with the relocation of a meter pit shall be the sole responsibility
of the property owner.
   (K)   The meter, meter valves and/or remote located inside the pit are owned
by the town. The meter, meter valves and/or remote may not be relocated without
the written authorization of the town.
   (L)   In addition to the fines set forth under this section, the town may
discontinue service for failure to comply with the terms of this section, until
such time as there is compliance with this section.
   (M)   Reconnection of service shall be subject to a reconnection fee at the
same rate, and in the same manner as reconnection following a discontinuation
of service for nonpayment.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13; Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
§ 50.17 METHODS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   The town may accept payment for utility services and fees in the form
of check, cash, money order, certified check, cashier's check, credit/debit
cards, or electronic funds transfer once such a system is established for
electronic fund transfers, except as set forth under this section.
   (B)   The town shall not accept payment in the form of coins in an amount in
excess of $5.00.
   (C)   The town shall not accept payment for utility services and/or fees in
the form of a check from any account holder or property owner who has issued
two or more checks for any property which have not been honored by the bank
within any 12 month period, until such time as the account holder or property
owner has made 12 consecutive timely payments.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.18 AFTER-HOURS EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Account holders and/or property owners experiencing after hour
emergencies shall contact the town at 317-485-4044 and leave a message on the
emergency line. The town shall establish a system so as to direct after hours
emergency calls to the individual within the utility department on call.
   (B)   A representative of the utility department authorized to assist in
emergency matters shall be on call at all times after normal business hours.
   (C)   Notification shall be made to the caller through an automated system,
or otherwise, that if a response to the emergency call is not received within a
reasonable period of time, the caller should contact the Hancock County
Sheriff’s Department and request a dispatch be made to the Fortville Police
Department regarding the emergency.
   (D)   Discontinuation of services due to nonpayment, bad check or delinquent
payment does not constitute an emergency and shall be directed to the utility
department the following business day.
   (E)   Information regarding this section shall be posted within the public
area of the administrative building of the utility department.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.19 DELINQUENT ACCOUNT; WRITEOFFS.
   (A)   The town shall make reasonable effort to collect any and all
delinquent utility accounts.
   (B)   The Fortville Town Council may establish, by separate resolution,
specific and/or additional collection methods.
   (C)   The town may pursue all other remedies available under Indiana Law for
delinquent water, storm water, and sewer accounts.
   (D)   Delinquent accounts for storm water and sewer fees and services which
fail to meet the minimum threshold for obtaining a lien shall be written off if
the same are uncollected for a period of two years or longer.
   (E)   Delinquent accounts for water fees and services shall be written off
if the same are uncollected for a period of two years or longer.
   (F)   The town shall maintain record of any and all delinquent accounts,
irrespective of whether the same have been written off or not.
   (G)   The Town Council may from time to time approve the write off of any
other delinquent utility account by majority vote.
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
§ 50.20 CAPACITY AND CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   New connections to the town's waterworks or to the town's sewage
works, either by mandate under a separate ordinance issued by the Fortville
Town Council, or by request of the property owner, shall be assessed and pay a
capacity fee in addition to any other fees or charges paid to the town.
   (B)   Capacity fees shall be paid prior to establishing a connection to the
town's waterworks or the town's sewage works.
   (C)   Each structure being served with sewer is required to have its own
individual service line. Each EDU within the structure shall pay a capacity fee
at the time of establishing the dwelling unit and be subject to the monthly
rates according to the current policy.
   (D)   For residential properties connecting to the water, all equivalent
dwelling units are required to be metered separately. Each equivalent dwelling
unit within a structure shall pay the capacity fee at the time of establishing
the EDU and be subject to the monthly rates according to the current policy as
long as the water is turned on.
   (E)   In the event that a structure is removed or physically disconnected
for any reason for a period of 12 months or more, a capacity fee for sewer and
water will be charged to reconnect to the system.
   (F)   The Fortville Town Council has established by separate ordinance the
capacity fees required as described under this section. (See current rate
policy for amount.)
(Res. 2013-2A, passed 2-19-13)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SERVICE
Section
   
51.01   Water works rates and charges established
   
51.02   Connection charges
   
51.03   Water meter deposits
   
51.04   Charges for specific services
   
51.05   Water and sewage bills
   
51.06   Withdrawal/removal from jurisdiction of IURC
§ 51.01 WATER WORKS RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be and there is established for the use of and the service
rendered by the Water Works System of the Town of Fortville, Indiana, rates and
charges based upon the amount of water supplied during each monthly billing
period which shall be as determined by the Town Council from time to time.
(`87 Code, § 9-49) (Ord. 1980-6B, passed 6-18-80)
§ 51.02 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   The connection charges for a service requiring a 5/8 inch meter shall be as
determined by the Town Council from time to time. The connection charge for a
service requiring a meter which is larger than 5/8 inch shall be as determined
by the Town Council from time to time.
(`87 Code, § 9-50) (Ord. 1980-6B, passed 6-18-80; Am. Ord. 1993-8A, passed 8-
10-93)
§ 51.03 WATER METER DEPOSITS.
   The water meter deposit shall be as determined by the Town Council from time
to time.
(`87 Code, § 9-51) (Ord. 1968-10A, passed 10-22-68)
§ 51.04 CHARGES FOR SPECIFIC SERVICES.
   (A)   Charges are set to cover expenses incurred and will not render or
generate a profit and will be determined by the Town Council from time to time.
   (B)   All meter or meter valves damaged by a customer which require
replacement shall be assessed the cost of labor and material and charged to the
customer.
(`87 Code, § 9-61)
§ 51.05 WATER AND SEWAGE BILLS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, service will
be discontinued for nonpayment in accordance with the procedures set forth in
this section; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of the bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time the customer may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of the customer’s choosing and may present
orally or in writing his complaint and contentions to the town official in
charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   (1)   Bills will be mailed to be received on or before the first day
of the month, and will be due in full on or before the seventeenth day of the
billing month.
      (2)   Bills paid after the seventeenth will be charged a late payment
penalty on both the water and sewage at rates in accordance with applicable
ordinances.
      (3)   Accounts not paid by the twentieth will be issued a letter
requesting payment in full, advising of the payment policy and of the potential
loss of service within 20 days. In the case of rentals a copy of this letter
will also be sent to the property owner.
      (4)   The past due amount with late charges will be added to the
following months bill. This bill will be rubber stamped in red ink on the face
of the bill “Must be paid in full by the seventeenth or service will be
discontinued on the eighteenth.”
      (5)   On the eighteenth shut off water services to these unpaid accounts
and charge the current months bill a late charge.
      (6)   Water service will be resumed only after the total bill with late
charges has been paid in full. Services will not be resumed on partial bill
payment.
      (7)   Accounts unpaid after the first day of the following month (third
month) will be added to the owner’s property tax.
(`87 Code, § 9-62)
Statutory reference:
   Termination of water service for unpaid sewage charges, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4
Cross reference:
   Sewer service, see
Chapter 52
§ 51.06 WITHDRAWAL/REMOVAL FROM JURISDICTION OF IURC.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1, the town’s municipal water utility is hereby
withdrawn and removed from the jurisdiction of the Indiana Utility Regulation
Commission (IURC) for the approval of rates and charges and the issuance of
stocks, bonds, notes, or other evidence of indebtedness, and for any and all
other applicable matters permitted by law to be withdrawn and removed from
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2020-6B, passed 10-5-20)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Administration
   
52.003   Abbreviations
   
52.004   Definitions
   
52.005   Confidential information
   
52.006   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
52.007   Pretreatment charges and fees
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
52.020   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.021   Abnormal waste surcharge
   
52.022   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.023   Local limits
   
52.024   Town’s right of revision and modifications
   
52.025   Dilution
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
52.035   Pretreatment facilities
   
52.036   Additional pretreatment measures
   
52.037   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
52.038   Hauled wastewater
Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
   
52.050   Wastewater analysis
   
52.051   Wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
52.052   Wastewater discharge permitting
   
52.053   Wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
52.054   Application signatories and certification
   
52.055   Wastewater discharge permit decisions
Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
   
52.065   Permit duration
   
52.066   Permit contents
   
52.067   Permit appeals
   
52.068   Permit modification
   
52.069   Permit transfer
   
52.070   Permit revocation
   
52.071   Permit reissuance
   
52.072   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Reporting Requirements
   
52.085   Baseline monitoring reports
   
52.086   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
52.087   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
52.088   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.089   Reports of changed conditions
   
52.090   Reports of potential problems; POTW reports to IDEM; investigations
   
52.091   Reports from unpermitted users
   
52.092   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting
   
52.093   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
52.094   Analytical requirements
   
52.095   Sample collection
   
52.096   Timing
   
52.097   Recordkeeping
Compliance Monitoring
   
52.110   Industrial monitoring
   
52.111   Industrial survey
   
52.112   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
52.113   Search warrants
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.125   Notification of violations
   
52.126   Agreed orders
   
52.127   Show cause hearing
   
52.128   Compliance orders
   
52.129   Cease and desist orders
   
52.130   Administrative fines
   
52.131   Emergency suspensions
   
52.132   Termination of discharge
   
52.133   Performance bonds
   
52.134   Liability insurance
   
52.135   Water supply severance
   
52.136   Public nuisances
   
52.137   Informant rewards
   
52.138   Contractor listing
   
52.139   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
   
52.140   Public noticing of SNC discharges
Wastewater Pretreatment Program Enforcement Response Plan
   
52.150   Introduction
   
52.151   Administration and jurisdiction
   
52.152   Abbreviations
   
52.153   Personnel responsibilities
   
52.154   Description of enforcement actions
   
52.155   Enforcement Response Guide
   
52.156   Definitions of violations
   
52.157   Timetables for enforcement responses
   
52.158   Enforcement response program tables
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the Town of Fortville and enables the town to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33
USC 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR 403). The
objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the costs of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      (6)   To enable the town to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all direct and indirect users of the
publicly owned treatment works, including persons outside the town who are, by
contract or agreement with the town, users of the publicly owned treatment
works. This chapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits;
provides for monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities; establishes
administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the
setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the
program established herein and for fines and other remedies for violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted to or duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the
Superintendent to other town personnel.
   (B)   The town will maintain sufficient resources and qualified personnel to
carry out the hybrid pretreatment program in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 5-13-4
(f)(c).
   (C)   If any provision of this chapter is invalidated by any court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be affected and
shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
   AAS         -   Alkyl Arial Sulfonate
   ABS         -   Alkyl Benzene Sulfonate
   BOD5         -   Biochemical Oxygen Demand - Five Day
   CFR         -   Code of Federal Regulations
   COD5         -   Chemical Oxygen Demand - Five Day
   EPA         -   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency - Washington D.C.
   EPA Region V   -   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region V - Chicago,
Illinois
   FOG         -   Fats, Oil and Grease
   gpd            -   gallons per day
   I.A.C.         -   Indiana Administrative Code
   I.C.         -   Indiana Code
   I/I            -    Inflow and Infiltration (Clear Water Flow)
   IDEM         -   Indiana Department of Environmental Management
   IWP         -   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit
   MGD         -   Million Gallons per Day
   mg/l         -   milligrams per liter
   MSDS         -    Material Safety Data Sheet
   NPDES         -   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   O & G         -   Oil and Grease
   POTW         -   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
   PUWWS      -   IDEM’s Pretreatment and Urban Wet Weather Section
   RCRA         -   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
   SIC         -   Standard Industrial Classification
   SNC         -   Significant Noncompliance
   SIU         -   Significant Industrial User
   TSS         -   Total Suspended Solids
   USC         -   United States Code
   WDP         -   Wastewater Discharge Permit
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal, state or local) contained in this chapter and considered to
be the most restrictive with which nondomestic users will be required to
comply.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Regional Administrator of EPA Region V. IDEM will
automatically be designated as the Approval Authority if its pretreatment
program is approved by the EPA and EPA delegates its pretreatment program
authority to IDEM.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding 25 million dollars (in second-quarter 1980
dollars), if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the
manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility or their designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in subsections (1) through (3), above,
may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in
writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for
the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company and the
written authorization is submitted to the Superintendent.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD5. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (for example, mg/
l).
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 USC 1317) which apply to a specific
category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts
405-471.
   CLEAR WATER FLOW. Groundwater or precipitation related water which enters
the sanitary sewer collection system through pipe defects (infiltration) or
conduits (inflow).
   COLOR. The optical density at the visual wave length of maximum absorption,
relative to distilled water. 100% transmittance is equivalent to zero (0.0)
optical density.
   COMBINED SEWER. Sewer which carries both sanitary and stormwater flow by
design.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY (“CA”). The Commissioner of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of Fortville, Indiana, or any duly authorized
official acting on its behalf.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or
any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day for sampling
purposes.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Region V Water Management Division Director
or other duly authorized official of the agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by the EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with Section 307 of the Act.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASE. A group of substances, including hydrocarbons, fatty
acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material that is extracted by a
solvent from an acidified sample and that is not volatilized during the
laboratory test procedures.
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL SAMPLING or TIME PROPORTIONAL SAMPLING. A 24-hour
composite sample that consists of at least three grab samples collected over
equal time intervals during the period of operator attendance. The grab samples
for the composite shall be proportioned to flow. If a user does not utilize an
automatic sampler, a flow proportioned composite sample may be obtained by:
      (1)   Recording the discharge flow rate at the time each individual
sample is taken;
      (2)   Adding together the discharge flow rates recorded from each
individual sampling time to formulate the “total flow value;”
      (3)   Dividing the discharge flow rate of each individual sampling time
by the total flow value to determine its percentage of the total flow value;
      (4)   Multiplying the volume of the total composite sample by each
individual sample’s percentage to determine the volume of that individual
sample that will be included in the total composite sample.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream without regard to
the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste defined as a hazardous waste under 40 CFR 261.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c) or (d) of
the Act.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGER. A nondomestic discharger introducing pollutants into
the town's wastewater treatment plant, regardless of whether the discharger is
within the town's jurisdiction.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. An indirect discharger.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the
analysis of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of the
industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does one of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal;
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the town’s NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation;
      (3)   Prevents the use of sewage sludge or its disposal method selected
in compliance with the following statutory provisions, regulations, or permits
issued thereunder or any more stringent state or local regulations: Section 405
of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1345); the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA)
(42 U.S.C. 6901), including Title II, commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and the rules contained in any state
sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6941); the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401); and the
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601).
   MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. Highest allowable daily discharge.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c)
of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of subsection (1)(b) or (c) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this subsection has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which are
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this subsection.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through the town's wastewater treatment
plant into waters of the state in quantities or concentrations that, alone or
in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, are a cause
of a violation of any requirement of the town's NPDES permit, including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes and certain characteristics of wastewater (for example, pH, temperature,
TSS, turbidity, color, BOD5, COD5, toxicity and odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user, including applicable local limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR STANDARDS.
      (1)   State pretreatment standards as established in 327 IAC 5-18-8;
      (2)   Pretreatment standards for prohibited discharges, as established in
327 IAC 5-18-2; and
      (3)   National categorical pretreatment standards incorporated by
reference in 327 IAC 5-18-10.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
52.020.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works owned by the state
or a municipality, except that it does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. The term includes
any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage or compatible industrial wastes, The term also
includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to
a POTW treatment plant. “POTW” also means the town to the extent it has
jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from the town's
treatment plant.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).
      (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 327 IAC 5-18-10.
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater) to the town's treatment plant;
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the town's treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as a significant industrial user by the control
authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
            1.   Adversely affect the town's treatment plant operations;
            2.   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
            3.   Violate a requirement of 327 IAC 5-19-3.
      (3)   The control authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or a POTW and in accordance with
327 IAC 5-19-3(6), determine that an industrial user is not a significant
industrial user if it does not meet Part III.A.9.b(3) of the town's NPDES
permit.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC). For compliance provisions of this chapter,
this term is defined as follows:
      (1)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits:
         (a)   Chronic violations. 66% or more of the measurements exceed the
same daily maximum limit or the same average limit in a six month period;
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC). 33% or more of the measurements
exceed the same daily maximum limit or the same average limit by more than the
TRC in a six month period. There are two groups of TRCs:
            1.   Group I for conventional pollutants
               (BOD5, COD, TSS, fats, oil and grease)      TRC =1.4 (40%);
            2.   Group II for all other pollutants         TRC=1.2 (20%);
         (c)   Any other violation(s) of an effluent limit (average or daily
maximum) that the Superintendent believes has caused, alone or in combination
with other discharges, interference (for example, slug loads) or pass through
or endangered the health of the sewage treatment personnel or the public;
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant which has caused imminent
endangerment to human health/welfare or to the environment and resulted in the
POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge.
      (2)   Violation of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a local
control mechanism or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction or attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date.
      (3)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedules, self-
monitoring data or categorical standards (baseline monitoring reports, 90-day
compliance reports and periodic reports) within 30 days from due date.
      (4)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      (5)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Superintendent
considers to be significant.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects.
   SLUG DISCHARGE or SLUG LOAD. Any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge that may cause interference to a POTW or any discharge at a flow rate
or concentration which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge
standards in §
52.020.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the Town of Fortville who is
charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter or a duly
authorized representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of
or is suspended in water, wastewater or other liquid and which is removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Fortville, Indiana, acting by and through its Town
Council.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate and other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the town to a user of the
wastewater utility which establishes specific conditions and requirements.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00; Am. Ord. 2011-11A, passed 11-21-11; Am. Ord.
2015-4A, passed 5-9-15)
§ 52.005 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits and monitoring
programs and from the Superintendent’s inspection and sampling activities shall
be available to the public without restriction, unless the user specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Superintendent
that the release of such information would divulge information, processes or
methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable
state law. Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data. When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a
report that such information should be held confidential, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately
upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment program and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other
effluent data, as defined by 40 CFR 2.302 will not be recognized as
confidential information and will be available to the public without
restriction.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.006 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in the largest daily newspaper
published in the municipality where the POTW is located, a list of the users
which, during the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.007 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The Superintendent and the Council may adopt reasonable fees for
reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the town’s pretreatment
program which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications, including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for the issuance of permits;
   (C)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures, including
the cost of collection of and analyzing a user’s discharge, the collection and
analyzing samples, reviewing monitoring reports submitted by users and
conducting site visits;
   (D)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (E)   Fees for filing appeals; and
   (F)   Other fees as the Superintendent or Council may deem necessary to
carry out the requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the
matters covered by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and
penalties chargeable by the town.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.020 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW,
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 9.0, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than 200 mg/l daily average. TSS levels in excess of 200 mg/l daily
average may be subject to a surcharge per §
52.021. TSS levels in excess of 200 mg/l daily average shall result in the
imposition of a fine per §
52.130;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
that, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW. BOD levels in excess of 200 mg/l daily average may
be subject to a surcharge per §
52.021. BOD levels in excess of 400 mg/l daily average shall result in the
imposition of a fine per §
52.130;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 140°F (60°C) or that
will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (6)   Ammonia levels in excess of 20 mg/l daily average may be subject to
a surcharge per §
52.021. Ammonia levels in excess of 30 mg/l daily average may result in the
imposition of a fine per §
52.130;
      (7)   Fat, oil and grease levels in excess of 100 mg/l daily average may
be subject to a surcharge per §
52.021. Fat, oil and grease levels in excess of 200 mg/l daily average may
result in the imposition of a fine per §
52.130;
      (8)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (9)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW sewers, including in a quantity that may cause acute
worker health and safety problems;
      (10)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Superintendent in accordance with §
52.038;
      (11)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (12)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit (No. IN0020958);
      (13)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes, except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (14)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
      (15)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (16)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (18)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW, including AAS and AES; and
      (19)   Instantaneous flows and loadings which are in excess of the POTW’s
functional and treatment capacities or are likely to cause overflow conditions.
      (20)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.021 ABNORMAL WASTE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The costs of treatment for each pound of BOD, suspended solids or
grease removed by each treatment works shall be reviewed by the town at the end
of each fiscal year. If a discrepancy exists between the actual costs as found
by the town and the estimated costs, the town shall increase or decrease the
surcharge rates sufficiently to cover only the projected actual costs for the
ensuing year. The surcharge rates are contained in the town’s separate rate
ordinances.
   (B)   No reduction in sewerage service charges, fees or taxes will be
permitted because of the fact that certain industrial wastes discharged to the
public sanitary sewerage system contain less than the surcharge based
limitations.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.022 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter
N, Parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 CFR 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.023 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The following pollutant limitations are established to protect against
pass through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing
in excess of the following daily maximum concentrations based upon a flow
proportional sampling or time proportional sampling. Additionally, no person
shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of the following maximum
concentrations times a multiplier of l.5 based upon a grab sample. The 1.5 grab
sample multiplier does not apply to Hex. Chromium, Cyanide and Phenols in that
analytical procedures do not allow for composite techniques to be applied to
these parameters. For Hex. Chromium, Cyanide and Phenols, three grab sample
results shall be analyzed with results not to exceed the following noted
limitations:
      (1)   30 mg/l:       Ammonia;
      (2)   0.04 mg/l:       Arsenic (total);
      (3)   200   mg/l:       BOD5;
      (4)   0.20 mg/l:       Cadmium (total);
      (5)   900   mg/l:       COD5;
      (6)   4.0   mg/l:       Total Chromium;
      (7)   0.6   mg/l:       Copper;
      (8)   0.025 mg/l:       Cyanide (total);
      (9)   0.113 mg/l:       Lead (total);
      (10)   0.0002 mg/l:       Mercury (total);
      (11)   0.3   mg/l:       Nickel;
      (12)   200   mg/l:      Fats, Oils & Grease;
      (13)   0.5   mg/l:       Silver;
      (14)   200   mg/l:       TSS (Total Suspended Solids);
      (15)   2.0   mg/l:       TTO (Total Toxic Organics);
      (16)   2.0   mg/l:       Zinc (total);
   (B)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for total metal
unless indicated otherwise. The Superintendent may impose mass limitations in
addition to, or in place of, the concentration-based limitations above.
   (C)   Upon the promulgation of the National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard (NCPS) for a particular user, the said standard, if more stringent
than the limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that category,
shall, when effective, immediately supersede the limitations and conditions
imposed under this chapter. The Superintendent shall notify all known affected
users of the applicable permitting and reporting requirements under 40 CFR
403.12.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.024 TOWN’S RIGHT OF REVISION AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in
wastewater discharge permits, different or more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the POTW.
   (B)   Any significant modifications the town intends to make will be
submitted to PUWWS for approval in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 5-13-4(g) prior
to being enacted. Significant modifications include the following:
      (1)   A major modification in the town’s administrative procedures;
      (2)   A significant reduction in the monitoring procedures;
      (3)   A significant change in the financial or revenue limitations
contained in this chapter;
      (4)   A change in the industrial survey;
      (5)   A change in federal or state regulations or requirements;
      (6)   An increase in pollutant limits.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.025 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 52.035 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
52.021 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state or the
Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review and shall be acceptable to the
Superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans
and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to the town under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.036 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   (D)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil or sand, except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential use. All interception
units shall be of the type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and
shall be located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at their expense.
   (E)   Users which operate vehicular wash facilities shall provide, operate
and maintain pretreatment facilities approved by the Superintendent to control
solids and preclude the discharge of toxics to the POTW.
   (F)   Users which operate food preparation facilities shall provide, operate
and maintain pretreatment facilities approved by the Superintendent to control
the discharge of greases, fats, oils and food solids to the POTW.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.037 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   At least once every two years, the Superintendent shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug
control plan. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the Superintendent may
develop such a plan for any user and require the user to comply with the plan.
   (B)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
52.090; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment and measures for containing toxic
organic pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for
emergency response.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.038 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Wastewater haulers are prohibited except under the express and
specific written permission of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Industrial or septic waste haulers who receive the express and
specific written permission of the Superintendent to introduce industrial or
septic waste into the POTW must comply with the following conditions:
      (1)   Industrial or septic waste haulers may discharge loads only at
locations designated by the Superintendent. No load may be discharged without
prior consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect samples of
each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The
Superintendent may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste
analysis of any load prior to discharge;
      (2)   Industrial or septic waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking
form for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and
address of the industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification,
names and addresses of sources of waste and volume and characteristics of
waste. The form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION
§ 52.050 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Superintendent, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 14 days of the request. The
Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.051 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to §
52.052 may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require other users to obtain wastewater
discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the wastewater
discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
52.125 et seq. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a
permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment
standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and
local law.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.052 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING.
   (A)   Existing connections. Any user required to obtain a wastewater
discharge permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the
effective date of this chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in
the future shall, within 30 days after said date, apply to the Superintendent
for a wastewater discharge permit in accordance with §
52.053 and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after 30
days of the effective date of this chapter except in accordance with a
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Superintendent.
   (B)   New connections. Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge
permit who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must
obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An
application for this wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with §
52.053, must be filed at least 30 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.053 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit
a permit application. The Superintendent may require all users to submit as
part of an application the following information:
      (1)   All information required by §
52.085(B);
      (2)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW and MSDS sheets for all chemicals used which are subject to
potential discharge;
      (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
      (4)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (5)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, floor drains and appurtenances by size, location and
elevation and all points of discharge;
      (7)   Time and duration of discharges; and
      (8)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.054 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
   "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations."
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.055 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. Any new SIU industry proposing to discharge
process wastewater must acquire an IWP before it can commence discharging into
the POTW. Within 15 days of receipt of a complete wastewater discharge permit
application, the Superintendent will determine whether or not to issue a
wastewater discharge permit. The Superintendent may deny any application for a
wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS
§ 52.065 PERMIT DURATION.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit, unless
administratively extended by the Superintendent in writing. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at the
discretion of the Superintendent. Each wastewater discharge permit will
indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.066 PERMIT CONTENTS.
   (A)   A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are
deemed reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the waterbody receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, protect against damage to the POTW and ensure the town
is in compliance with its NPDES permit.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to and approval of the Superintendent in accordance
with §
52.069 and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards and as
identified in §
52.023;
      (4)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
recordkeeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law; and
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions, including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or nonroutine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for the installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.067 PERMIT APPEALS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall provide public notice of the issuance of a
wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including the user, may petition the
Superintendent to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit within
15 days of notice of its issuance.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for reconsideration shall be
deemed to be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for each objection and the
alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater discharge
permit.
   (B)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the request for reconsideration.
   (C)   If the Superintendent fails to act within 30 days of the mailing of
the request for reconsideration, a request for reconsideration shall be deemed
to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a wastewater discharge permit, not to
issue a wastewater discharge permit or not to modify a wastewater discharge
permit shall be considered final administrative actions for purposes of
judicial review.
   (D)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final administrative
wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a complaint with the
Hancock County Circuit Court within 30 days of the final administrative
wastewater discharge permit decision.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.068 PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The Superintendent may modify a wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the town’s POTW, town personnel or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.069 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 30 days advance notice to the
Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the wastewater discharge permit
transfer. The notice to the Superintendent must include a written certification
by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide 30 days advance notice of a transfer renders the
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.070 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to §
52.089;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent or his or her agent timely
access to the facility premises and records as would be reasonable under the
circumstances;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide 30 days advance notice of the transfer of
business ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement or any terms
of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater
discharge permit to that user.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.071 PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with §
52.053, a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user's existing
wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.072 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality or sewer district contributes wastewater to
the POTW, the Superintendent shall enter into an intermunicipal or
interdistrict agreement with the contributing entity.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) of this
section, the Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing entity:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing entity;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing entity
that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
   (C)   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by division (A) of this
section, shall contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing entity to adopt a sewer use
ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits which
are at least as stringent as those set out in §
52.023. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the town’s ordinance or local
limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing entity to submit a revised user
inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Superintendent; and which of
these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing municipality and
the Superintendent;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing entity to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing entity
obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
entity’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing entity’s discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities of
users located within the contributing entity’s jurisdictional boundaries for
the purpose of inspection, sampling and any other duties deemed necessary by
the Superintendent; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal or interdistrict agreement.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.085 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the information
listed in division (B). At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard shall submit to the
Superintendent a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
of this section. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it
intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also
shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be
discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and the owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
§
52.094.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
52.095.
         (d)   MSDS sheets for all chemicals used which are subject to
potential discharge.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether
additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is
required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
52.086.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.054.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.086 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
52.085(B)(7):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, project status
reports, beginning operation and attaining compliance);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance which shall include, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with
the increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the
steps being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.087 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in §
52.085(B)(4)-(6). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this report
shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-term production rate. For
all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed in
terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure
of operation), this report shall include the user’s actual production during
the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with §
52.054.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.088 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the Superintendent but in no case less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
52.054.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Superintendent,
using the procedures prescribed in §
52.095, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.089 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Superintendent of any planned significant changes
to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or
volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change.
   (A)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
52.053.
   (B)   The Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
52.055 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
52.068 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of 10% or greater and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.090 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS; POTW REPORTS TO IDEM; INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the
Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the location of
the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and
corrective actions taken by the user.    
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived in writing by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve
the user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred
as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
penalties or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   The Superintendent will document and notify IDEM, Office of Water
Management’s Compliance Evaluation, of any major violations of any discharge
permit.   
   (E)   The Superintendent will investigate violations through the collection
and analysis of samples and other information in a manner designed to produce
evidence that will be admissible in an enforcement proceeding or judicial
action.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.091 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the Superintendent as the Superintendent may require.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.092 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit, federal, state or local law, the user must notify
the Superintendent within two hours of becoming aware of the violation. The
user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. The user is not required to resample if the Superintendent
monitors at the user’s facility at least once a month or if the Superintendent
samples between the user’s initial sampling and when the user receives the
results of this sampling.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.093 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the Superintendent, the EPA Region V Waste Management Division Director and the
IDEM Office of Solid and Hazardous Waste, in writing, of any discharge into the
POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 CFR 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous
waste as set forth in 40 CFR 261, the EPA hazardous waste number and the type
of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that
calendar month and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastestream
expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All notifications
must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge commences. Any
notification under this division need be submitted only once for each hazardous
waste discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions must be
submitted under §
52.089. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self- monitoring requirements of §§
52.085,
52.087 and
52.088.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) of this
section during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity
of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
Superintendent, the EPA Region V Waste Management Division Director and IDEM of
the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective date of such
regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.094 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR 136, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR 136
does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance with procedures
approved by EPA.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.095 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) of this section, the user must
collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection
techniques. In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the
Superintendent may authorize the use of time, proportional sampling or a
minimum of three grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will
provide a representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition,
grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge
limits.
   (B)   Samples for O&G, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols, sulfides and
volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection techniques.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.096 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not deposited, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.097 RECORDKEEPING.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain and make available for inspection and copying all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method and time of sampling and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the town or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Superintendent.
   (B)   The town will retain pretreatment reports from industrial users for a
minimum of three years. These records will be available for IDEM or EPA to copy
in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 5-11-7(d). This period will be extended during
the course of any unresolved litigation, including appeals periods, regarding
the discharge of pollutants by the industrial user or the operation of the
hybrid pretreatment program or upon the request of IDEM or EPA.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 52.110 INDUSTRIAL MONITORING.
   (A)   The town will inspect, sample and analyze industrial discharges in the
following manner:
      (1)   The sample types will be the same type as required in the IWP
issued by the controlling legal authority;
      (2)   The samples will be collected at the sample location specified in
the IWP issued by the controlling legal authority;
      (3)   A sampling and inspection program shall be inspected for, at a
minimum, all IWP facilities. IWP facilities will be inspected at least
annually;
      (4)   Samples will be collected at least quarterly;
      (5)   The analytical results of the samples will be submitted to the town
and IDEM PUWWS by the twenty-eighth day of the month following the month in
which the samples were taken;
      (6)   The town will keep a record of each industrial inspection it
performs. A copy of each inspection report will be sent to the PUWWS within 15
days of its completion.
   (B)   The town will immediately sample and analyze the POTW influent and
effluent for suspected pollutant(s) when the POTW operation is upset. The town
will immediately contact PUWWS and the Compliance Evaluation Section by
telephone at the time of the occurrence. The results of each analysis conducted
as a result of an upset will be submitted to PUWWS.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.111 INDUSTRIAL SURVEY.
   (A)   The Superintendent will maintain an industrial survey that contains
information about each industrial user that discharges into the POTW.
   (B)   Information concerning any industrial user commencing or ceasing
discharge shall be updated on the industrial survey immediately. The
Superintendent will notify the PUWWS of any new industrial user commencing
discharge into the POTW within five days.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.112 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall
allow the Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying and the
performance of any additional duties, as would be reasonable under the
circumstances.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent or his or her agent will be
permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific
responsibilities.
   (B)   The Superintendent or his or her agent shall have the right to set up
on the user’s property or require installation of such devices as are necessary
to conduct sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
   (C)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated at least annually, and more often if appropriate for the
equipment, to ensure their accuracy.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
   (E)   Unreasonable delays under the circumstances in allowing the
Superintendent or his or her agent access to the user’s premises shall be a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.113 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the town designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the Superintendent may seek issuance of a search
warrant from the Hancock County Circuit Court in Greenfield, Indiana.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.125 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATIONS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of violation. Within
30 days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a
plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent or the Council to take any action, including emergency actions
or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.126 AGREED ORDERS.
   The Council may enter into agreed orders, assurances of voluntary compliance
or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible
for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to be taken by
the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. The documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
52.128 and
52.129 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.127 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement to appear
before the Council and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should
not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place
for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action
and a request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least 15 days prior
to the hearing. The notice may be served on any authorized representative of
the user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.128 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge
directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time. If the
user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may
be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may
contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional
self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the amount of
pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the
deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement,
nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation,
including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be
a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.129 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or
that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the Superintendent may
issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such violations
and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.130 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Superintendent or the Council finds that a user has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent or the Council may fine such user in an amount
not to exceed $2,500 as provided by I.C. 36-1-3-8. Such fines shall be assessed
on a per violation, per day basis. In the case of monthly or other long term
average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the
period of violation.   
   (B)   When the Superintendent or the Council finds that a user has falsified
any information provided to the Superintendent, the town, IDEM or the EPA, the
Superintendent or the Council may fine such user in an amount not to exceed
$2,500 as provided by I.C. 36-1-3-8. Such fines shall be assessed on a per
violation, per day basis.
   (C)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 60 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1.8% per month. A lien against the user’s
property may be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
   (D)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request with
the Superintendent and the Council requesting the reconsideration of the fine
along with full payment of the fine amount within 30 days of being notified of
the fine. Where a request has merit, the Council may convene a hearing on the
matter. In the event the user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together
with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The
Superintendent or the Council may add the costs of preparing administrative
enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
   (E)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.131 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
formal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after notice
and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of
the POTW or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent may
allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
52.132 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §§
52.127 and
52.132.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.132 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
52.070, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
52.020 et seq.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under why the proposed
action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the Superintendent shall
not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
user.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.133 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater discharge
permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter,
a previous wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, unless such user first files a
satisfactory bond, payable to the town, in a sum not to exceed a value
determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.134 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater discharge
permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter,
a previous wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, unless the user first submits proof that
it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to
the POTW caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.135 WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement water service to the user may be severed.
Service will only recommence, at the user’s expense, after it has
satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply with the foregoing.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.136 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit
or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement is
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
Superintendent. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to
the provisions of this chapter governing such nuisances, including reimbursing
the town for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying the nuisance.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.137 INFORMANT REWARDS.
   The Superintendent may pay up to $250 for information leading to the
discovery of noncompliance by a user. In the event that the information
provided results in a civil penalty or an administrative fine levied against
the user, the Superintendent may disperse up to 10% of the collected fine or
penalty to the informant. However, a single reward payment may not exceed $250.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.138 CONTRACTOR LISTING.
   Users which have not achieved compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements are not eligible to receive a contractual award for
the sale of goods or services to the town. Existing contracts for the sale of
goods or services to the town held by a user found to be in significant
noncompliance with pretreatment standards or requirements may be terminated at
the discretion of the Council.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.139 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or
improper operation.
      (2)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of subsection (3) below are met.
      (3)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
         (c)   The user provided the Superintendent with a verbal notification
of the upset within two hours of becoming aware of the upset; and
         (d)   The user submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset:
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (4)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (5)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on
any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (6)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards. A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibitions in §
52.020(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
52.020(B)(3) through (16) if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason
to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other
sources, would cause pass through or interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the town was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit (No. IN0020958), and
in the case of interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or
disposal requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of
a user's treatment facility.
         SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      (2)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of subsections (3) and (4) of this section.
      (3)   (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within two
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission also
shall be provided to the Superintendent within five days of the time the user
becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description
of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates
and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it
is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within two
hours.
      (4)   (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under subsection (3) of
this section.
         (b)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in subsection (4)(a) of this section.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
§ 52.140 PUBLIC NOTICING OF SNC DISCHARGES.
   The Superintendent shall, on a yearly basis, publish a listing of individual
SIUs found to be in SNC during the previous 12 month period. The notice shall
be placed in the legal notice section of the newspaper of largest circulation
within the Town of Fortville. This listing shall include the name of the SIU
and the basis for SNC determination.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
§ 52.150 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   In accordance with the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Section 403.8
f(5) and Part III.C.6. of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit, the Town of Fortville is required to develop and implement an
Enforcement Response Plan (ERP) to be used in conjunction with its industrial
pretreatment program. The ERP will contain detailed procedures indicating how
the Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) will investigate and respond to
instances of industrial user noncompliance.
   (B)   The ERP is a protocol for responding to industrial pretreatment
violations consistently and systematically. It also provides a means whereby
industries are notified as to how the town will respond to pretreatment
violations. At a minimum, the ERP will:
      (1)   Describe how the POTW will investigate instances of noncompliance;
and
      (2)   Describe the types of escalating enforcement actions the POTW will
take in response to all anticipated types of industrial user violations; and
      (3)   Identify (by title) the officials) responsible for each type of
action; and
      (4)   Adequately reflect me POTW’s primary responsibility to enforce all
applicable pretreatment requirements and standards as detailed in Chapter 52 of
the Fortville Town Ordinances.
   (C)   This ERP is a guidance or policy document to be coordinated with the
existing pretreatment program procedures as outlined in Chapter 52 of the Town
of Fortville Ordinances.
(Ord. 2012-2B, passed 3-5-12)
§ 52.151 ADMINISTRATION AND JURISDICTION.
   All entities that discharge non-domestic wastewater to the POTW are subject
to the provisions of this ERP. The town consistently administers and implements
all elements of the ERP. The ERP does not preclude the town from taking any,
all, or any combination of action against a noncompliant industrial user (IU).
(Ord. 2012-2B, passed 3-5-12)
§ 52.152 ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   AO. Administrative order.
   (B)   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   ERG. Enforcement Response Guide.
   (D)   ERP. Enforcement Response Plan.
   (E)   IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   (F)   IU. Industrial user.
   (G)   IPC. Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator.
   (H)   SUO. Sewer Use Ordinance.
   (I)   NOV. Notice of violation.
   (J)   POTW. Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
(Ord. 2012-2B, passed 3-5-12)
§ 52.153 PERSONNEL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Superintendent. The Superintendent is responsible for the day to day
implementation and enforcement of the industrial pretreatment program.
Potential enforcement responses earned out by the IPC are as follows:
      (1)   Informal notices (verbal or written);
      (2)   Notices of violation;
      (3)   Referrals to the state or EPA for criminal action.
   (B)   Town Manager. The Town Manager has the responsibility to monitor the
IPC’s actions and to initiate these additional enforcement actions at the
recommendation of the IPC:
      (1)   Administrative orders;
      (2)   Compliance schedule;
      (3)   Show cause hearings;
      (4)   Termination of service;
      (5)   Administrative fines;
      (6)   Cost recovery;
      (7)   Referrals to the city attorney for judicial action;
      (8)   Referrals to the state or EPA for criminal action.
   (C)   Attorney. The Town Attorney will provide legal consultation as
requested by the Superintendent or Town Manager on compliance schedules,
administrative fines, administrative orders and cost recovery and will take the
lead on all referrals for judicial action and POTW initiated criminal
investigations.
(Ord. 2012-2B, passed 3-5-12)
§ 52.154 DESCRIPTION OF ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   Following are the types of enforcement action that may be undertaken by the
POTW:
   (A)   Informal notice. An informal notice may be a documented phone call,
written warning, or a meeting notifying the IU of minor incidences that have
occurred and that need to be corrected. Repeat performance of the same
incidence or escalation of the incidence will result in increased enforcement
action.
   (B)   Notice of violation (NOV). An NOV is the initial formal enforcement
action for a violation. A certified letter will notify the IU signatory
authority of the violation and will require the following:
      (1)   Written response within 30 days of receiving the NOV.
      (2)   An explanation of the violation and a plan to correct and prevent
future occurrences. Must include specific action to be taken.
      (3)   Increased sampling of the parameter in violation within 30 days, if
applicable.
   (C)   Administrative order. An administrative order is notification to the
IU to undertake or to cease specified activities by a specified deadline. It is
the first formal response to significant noncompliance (unless factors
necessitate escalated enforcement actions). It may contain a compliance
schedule, administrative fines, termination of service and show cause orders.
In addition, the NOV will specify the name of the parties involved, statement
of the facts, the requirement to ensure compliance and the enforcement action
associated with any future non-compliance.
   (D)   Compliance order and schedule. A compliance order is an order by the
Superintendent to the IU responsible for the discharge to come into compliance
within a specified time. The compliance schedule is a formal time and
management schedule that will be included in an enforcement order and that has
been established for the noncompliant IU to achieve compliance. It is
established for existing IUs to meet the categorical pretreatment standards and
local standards. The compliance schedule will contain increments of progress in
the form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events that will
lead to compliance. All compliance schedules shall contain the following:
      (1)   Monitoring requirements along with the location for monitoring;
      (2)   A description of how the data will be used for evaluating
compliance;
      (3)   Enforcement action that will be associated with non-compliance;
      (4)   Closure date after which the IU will be considered either
noncompliant with the established compliance schedule or evaluated for
compliance.
   (E)   Show cause hearing. A show cause hearing is when the IU and the POTW
meet to discuss the cause and effect of the violation, as well as the
enforcement action the IU will be subjected to by the town. At this time the IU
may present its case as to why the violation occurred and why further
enforcement should not be applied. Corrective actions to be undertaken by the
IU can also be a part of this meeting. Further explanation is provided in
Chapter 52 of the Fortville Town Ordinances.
   (F)   Termination of discharge. Termination of discharge is the revocation
of an IU’s privilege to discharge non-domestic wastewater into the sewer
system. Termination of discharge is used when the discharge from an industrial
user presents imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment; or threatens to interfere with the POTW’s operations; or as an
escalating enforcement action to a significant violation when a noncompliant IU
fails to respond adequately to previous enforcement actions. Termination of
service may be accomplished by physical severance of the IU’s connection to the
collection system, issuance of an AO (agreed order; cease and desist order)
which compels the IU to immediately terminate its discharge, revocation of the
U’s discharge permit or a court ruling.
   (G)   Emergency suspension. Suspension of discharge may be immediately
issued after formal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary
to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present
or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to property or the health or
welfare of persons or the environment, or that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW.
   (H)   Administrative fines. An administrative fine is a punitive monetary
charge that is assessed by the town rather than a court. Penalties are detailed
and authorized in Chapter 52 of the Fortville Town Ordinances. The purpose of a
fine is to recover the costs associated with noncompliance and to deter future
violations. When assessing an administrative fine the following factors will be
considered:
      (1)   Type and severity of the violation;
      (2)   Number of violations cited;
      (3)   Duration of noncompliance;
      (4)   Impact of the violation on the receiving stream, sludge quality and
POTW operation;
      (5)   Whether or not the violation threatened public health;
      (6)   The economic benefit or savings the IU user gained from the
noncompliance;
      (7)   Compliance history of the IU; and
      (8)   Whether or not the IU is making a good faith effort to comply.
   (I)   Cost recovery. In addition to administrative fines imposed by the
town, the IU shall be responsible for paying at a minimum, but not limited to,
the following costs that may be incurred by the town for the IU’s failure to
comply:
      (1)   Cost of mileage and labor incurred in detecting and correcting the
violation;
      (2)   Laboratory analysis costs associated with detecting and correcting
the violation;
      (3)   Additional treatment costs caused by the violation or associated
with detecting and correcting the violation;
      (4)   Costs of any additional equipment acquired or expended by the town
for detecting or correcting the violation;
      (5)   Repair and/or replacement of any part of the sewerage system
damaged by the violation;
      (6)   Any liability, damages, fines or penalties incurred by the town as
a result of the violation;
      (7)   Any and alt expenses of outside professionals to include, but not
be limited to, engineers, scientists and/or legal counsel;
      (8)   Other costs associated with the detection and correction of the
violations.
   (J)   Judicial action. Judicial action will be taken when it is deemed
necessary to force the IU to correct the violation and comply with the permit.
Judicial action may consist of civil prosecution, criminal prosecution, or an
action for injunction at the discretion of the town and its counsel. As an
alternative to judicial action, the town and IU may agree to a voluntary zero
discharge of industrial waste by the IU pending correction of the violation.
   (K)   Referral to EPA or the state. Violations that may warrant criminal
prosecution will be referred to the state or EPA for further action.
Circumstances that trigger EPA or state referrals will include, but not be
limited to, evidence of willfulness, evidence of negligence and/or bad faith
shown by the IU.
(Ord. 2012-2B, passed 3-5-12)
§ 52.155 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE GUIDE.
   (A)   This Enforcement Response Guide (ERG) designates several enforcement
options for each type or pattern of noncompliance that will ensure consistent
enforcement for similar violations and circumstances. Factors that will be
evaluated when determining the appropriate response to violations are as
follows:
      (1)   Good faith of the IU;
      (2)   Compliance history of the IU;
      (3)   Previous success of any prior enforcement actions against the IU;
      (4)   The violation’s effect on the environment and/or public health;
      (5)   The violation’s effect on the POTW.
   (B)   Violations resulting in significant noncompliance. Any violation that
results in significant noncompliance (SNC) will be addressed through formal
enforcement action. The minimum level of enforcement used to address an SNC is
an administrative order (AO). The following categories of SNC of IUs shall be
subject to enforcement actions initiated by the Town of Fortville.
      (1)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits.
         (a)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS of wastewater discharge limits, defined as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed, by any magnitude, the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter.
         (b)   1.   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) violations, defined as
those in which 33% or more of ail of the measurements for each pollutant
parameter taken during a six- month period exceed the same daily maximum limit
or the same average limit by more than the applicable TRC.
            2.   There are two groups of TRCs. Group I TRC equals 1.4 or 40%
for BOD5, COD, total suspended solids (TSS), fats, oil and grease. Group II TRC
equals 1.2 or 20% for all other pollutants except pH.
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (average or
daily maximum) that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of town personnel or the general public.
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health, welfare or the environment or has resulted in the
town’s exercise of its emergency authority under 327 IAC 5-19-3(1)(G) to halt
or prevent such a discharge.
      (2)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
administrative order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance.
      (3)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as:
         (a)   Baseline monitoring reports;
         (b)   Ninety-day compliance reports;
         (c)   Self-monitoring data, reports or categorical standards;
         (d)   Reports on compliance with required compliance schedules.
      (4)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      (5)   Any other violation or group of violations that the Superintendent
determines as significant or that will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the approved POTW pretreatment program.
   (C)   Escalating enforcement response. Escalating enforcement response will
be used for recurring violations and failure to achieve compliance subsequent
to informal or formal enforcement. A recurring violation is one in which the
same type of violation occurs on consecutive reporting periods, the violation
occurs seasonally or any other pattern of noncompliance is shown.
   (D)   Violations falling under more than one category. Alleged violations or
violations that fall under more than one category in the ERP will be addressed
using the most severe enforcement response.
(Ord. 2012-2B, passed 3-5-12)
§ 52.156 DEFINITIONS OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   MINOR SAMPLING, MONITORING, OR REPORTING DEFICIENCIES.
      (1)   Reports/correspondence submitted up to ten business days late;
      (2)   Incomplete reports and/or chain-of-custody first offense;
      (3)   Transcription error;
      (4)   Improper sampling or analytical procedure first offense;
      (5)   Late notification of violation to POTW first offense;
      (6)   Failure to report any operational changes that affect the discharge
flow rate but does not impact the permit first offense;
      (7)   Any other violation categorized as minor sampling, monitoring or
reporting deficiencies.
   (B)   MAJOR SAMPLING, MONITORING, OR REPORTING DEFICIENCIES.
      (1)   Reports/correspondence late by 11 to 30 business days;
      (2)   Sampling point not accessible to the POTW;
      (3)   Reports not certified;
      (4)   Failure to report any operational changes that affect the discharge
flow rate and impacts the permit;
      (5)   Incomplete report or chain-of-custody information; repeat offense;
      (6)   Failure to submit all the information that leads to the
determination of a category of an IU;
      (7)   Failure to use appropriate analytical methods (40 CFR 136);
      (8)   Failure to sample for a required parameter;
      (9)   Failure to report slug load discharge, illegal discharges or spills
with no damage to the POTW;
      (10)   Unacceptable explanation for a violation;
      (11)   Improper sampling or analytical procedure; repeat offense;
      (12)   Any other violation categorized as a major sampling, monitoring or
reporting deficiency by the POTW.
   (C)   CRITICAL SAMPLING, MONITORING, OR REPORTING DEFICIENCIES.
      (1)   Reports greater than 31 days late (SNC);
      (2)   Complete failure to sample, monitor or report per the requirements
of the IU’s permit;
      (3)   Any deficiency of sampling, monitoring or reporting procedure which
places IU in SNC;
      (4)   Failure to respond to a show cause or administrative order;
      (5)   Illegal or unauthorized discharge that results in damage to the
POTW;
      (6)   Any violation of sampling, monitoring or reporting procedures which
directly or indirectly contributes to or is responsible for violation of the
POTW’s NPDES permit;
      (7)   Any other violation categorized as a critical sampling, monitoring
or reporting deficiency by the POTW.
   (D)   UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGE. Discharge of any pollutant(s) from a location,
process, source or categorical operation that has not been previously approved,
identified or permitted by the POTW.
   (E)   DAMAGES TO THE POTW. Occurs when the discharge from an IU causes:
      (1)   Harm to the collection system, its accessories and wastewater
treatment plant;
      (2)   Interference with the biological operations of the plant;
      (3)   Deterioration of sludge quality;
      (4)   The POTW to violate its NPDES permit.
(Ord. 2012-2B, passed 3-5-12)
§ 52.157 TIMEFRAMES FOR ENFORCEMENT RESPONSES.
   (A)   All violations will be identified and documented within five days of
receiving the compliance information.
   (B)   An initial enforcement response (informal or formal) will occur within
15 days of identifying a violation.
   (C)   Follow up actions for continuing or recurring violations will be taken
within 60 days of the initial enforcement response.
   (D)   Violations which threaten health, property or environmental quality
are considered emergencies and will receive immediate response such as halting
the discharge or terminating service.
   (E)   All violations meeting the criteria for significant noncompliance will
be addressed through formal enforcement action within 30 days of the
identification of a SNC.
(Ord. 2012-2B, passed 3-5-12)
§ 52.158 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PROGRAM TABLES.
TABLE I
DISCHARGE PARAMETER VIOLATION
Violation Nature or Frequency of Violation Status Range of Responses
Violation  Nature or Frequency of Violation                                              Status      Range of Responses
           Isolated, non-significant.                                                    Non-        NOV
                                                                                         compliance
           Frequent, repeated offense, non-significant (exceeding one/quarter or four/   Non-        NOV with increased sampling
           calendar year).                                                               compliance  frequency
                                                                                         Significant I.   AO
Exceedance Exceedance of TRC value by a frequency of 33% or more in six months and/or    non-        II.   Administrative fine
of         exceedances of permit limit by a frequency of 66% or more in six-month span   compliance  III.   Cost recovery
discharge  or as stated in 40 CFR 403.                                                   (SNC)       IV.   Judicial action/terminate
limits                                                                                               services
                                                                                                     I.   AO
           Any instance with POTW damage or direct cause for violation of POTW’s NPDES Significant II.   Administrative fine
           permit - SNC.                                                                 non-        III.   Cost recovery
                                                                                         compliance  IV.   Judicial action/terminate
                                                                                                     services
Waste      Isolated, non-significant.                                                    Non-        I.   Informal notice
stream                                                                                   compliance  II.   NOV
dilution
in lieu of
treatment
as
described  Frequent, repeat offense, non-significant (exceeding one per quarter or four  Non-        I.   NOV
in the SUO per calendar year).                                                           compliance  II.   AO
for
industrial
waste
discharge
           Isolated with no damage to POTW.                                              Non-        NOV
                                                                                         compliance
                                                                                         Significant AO and upgrading slug discharge
           Frequent; more than one per calendar year with no damage to POTW.             non-        control plan
Slug load                                                                                compliance
discharge                                                                                            I.   AO
           Any instance with POTW damage or direct cause for violation of POTW’s NPDES Significant II.   Administrative fine
           permit; SNC.                                                                  non-        III.   Cost recovery
                                                                                         compliance  IV.   Judicial action/terminate
                                                                                                     services
 
Violation     Nature or Frequency of Violation                                              Status      Range of Responses
Unauthorized/
non-          Any instance with no damage to POTW.                                          Non-        NOV
permitted                                                                                   compliance
discharge
                                                                                                        I.   AO
              Any instance with POTW damage or direct cause for violation of POTW’s NPDES Significant II.   Administrative fine
             permit - SNC.                                                                 non-        III.   Cost recovery
                                                                                            compliance  IV.   Judicial action/terminate
                                                                                                        services
Prohibited or                                                                                           I.   AO
illegal RCRA                                                                                Significant II.   Administrative fine
hazardous     Any instance.                                                                 non-        III.   Cost recovery
waste                                                                                       compliance  IV.   Judicial action/terminate
discharge                                                                                               services
 
TABLE II
SAMPLING, MONITORING AND REPORTING VIOLATIONS
 
              Nature or
Violation     Frequency   Status      Range of Responses
              of
              Violation
              Isolated or Non-        I.   Informal notice
              infrequent. compliance  II.   NOV
              Frequent,
              repeat
Minor         offense,
sampling,     non-
monitoring or significant Non-
reporting     (exceeding  compliance  NOV
deficiencies  one per
              quarter or
              four per
              calendar
              year).
              Isolated or Non-        I.   NOV
              infrequent. compliance  II.   NOV with increased sampling frequency
              Frequent,
Major         repeat
sampling,     offense
monitoring,   (exceeding  Non-        I.   NOV with increased sampling frequency
or reporting  one per     compliance  II.   AO
deficiencies  quarter or
              four per
              calendar
              year).
Critical                              I.   AO
sampling,     Any         Significant II.   Administrative fine
monitoring,   instance.   non-        III.   Judicial action
or reporting              compliance  IV.   terminate services
deficiencies
Falsification
of sampling,  Any         Significant I.   Administrative fine
monitoring,   instance.   non-        II.   Judicial action–criminal prosecution
or reporting              compliance  III.   Terminate services
requirements
 
Violation           Nature or Frequency  Status           Range of Responses
                    of Violation
Failure to report   Any instance with no
changed discharge   impact on the        Non- compliance  Informal notice
                    permit.
                    Any instance with
                    impact on the        Non- compliance  NOV with show cause
                    permit.
Failure to obtain
permit before       Any instance.        Non- compliance  NOV with show cause
discharge
Failure to inform
POTW of the         Any instance.        Non- compliance  NOV
ownership change
Failure to install                                        NOV wit the
monitoring                                                requirement to
equipment including Any instance.        Non- compliance  immediately initiate
a monitoring                                              the installation of
manhole as required                                       equipment
Tampering with                           Significant non- I.   AO with fines
monitoring          Any instance.        compliance       II.   Judicial action
equipment
 
TABLE III
OTHER TYPES OF VIOLATIONS
 
               Nature or
Violation      Frequency of  Status     Range of Responses
               Violation
               Entry denied
               or consent
Entry denial   withdrawn.    Non-       Obtain search warrant and return to
               Copies of     compliance IU.
               records
               denied.
Inadequate     Incomplete or Non-       I.   Informal notice
record keeping missing       compliance II.   NOV
               records.
               Repeat        Non-       I.   NOV
               offense.      compliance II.   AO with fine
Failure to
properly                                I.   Informal notice
operate and    Any instance. Non-       II.   NOV
maintain                     compliance III.   AO and immediate corrective
pretreatment                            action
facility
 
TABLE IV
COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE VIOLATION
Violation Nature or Frequency of Violation Status Range of Responses
Violation                                                    Nature or Frequency of Violation                                     Status      Range of Responses
                                                             Will not affect other milestone dates on compliance schedule. No     Non-        I.   Informal notice
                                                             valid cause for missing the deadline.                                compliance  II.   NOV
                                                             Will disrupt compliance schedule timetable–violation for valid     Non-        I.   NOV with show cause hearing
Missed milestone date                                        cause.                                                               compliance  II.   AO to re-establish timetable
                                                             Will disrupt compliance schedule timetable–violation not for valid Significant I.   AO with fines
                                                             cause.                                                               non-        II.   Re-establish the compliance
                                                                                                                                  compliance  schedule
                                                             Violation after milestone final date due to strike, act of God,      Non-        I.   Informal response
                                                             national crises, etc.                                                compliance  II.   AO to re-establish timetable
                                                             Sampling or monitoring within 30 days of milestone final date        Significant
                                                             yielded more than one violation for the compliance schedule          non-        NOV with show cause
Missed final date of achieving compliance for which the      parameter.                                                           compliance
schedule was established–the parameter was in violation at                                                                                  I.   AO with fines
least once                                                   Sampling or monitoring after 30 days and before the closure date     Significant II.   Show cause
                                                             yielded more than one violation for the compliance schedule          non-        III.   Administrative fine/cost
                                                             parameter.                                                           compliance  recovery
                                                                                                                                              IV.   Judicial action/zero discharge
                                                                                                                                              V.   Terminate services
                                                             Did not submit report but did complete milestone.                    Non-        NOV
                                                                                                                                  compliance
Failure to meet reporting requirements                                                                                            Significant
                                                             Did not submit report, did not complete milestone.                   non-        AO with fine
                                                                                                                                  compliance
                                                                                                                                  Significant I.   Terminate services
Reporting false information                                  Any instance.                                                        non-        II.   Judicial action/criminal
                                                                                                                                  compliance  prosecution
 
(Ord. 2012-2B, passed 3-5-12)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Injunctive relief. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Superintendent may petition the Hancock County Circuit
Court through the Town Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance
of the wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement imposed by this
chapter on the activities of the user. The Superintendent also may seek such
other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a user.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the town for a
maximum civil penalty of $2,500 per violation, per day. In the case of a
monthly or other long-term average discharge limit violation, penalties shall
accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
      (2)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court
costs and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses and the cost of any actual damages incurred by
the town.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions taken by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other
factor as justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (C)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The Superintendent and the Council may take any, all or any
combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of
pretreatment violations generally will be in accordance with the town’s
enforcement response plan. However, the Superintendent and the Council may take
other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
Superintendent and the Council are empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2000-11B, passed 11-28-00)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER DRAINAGE, EROSION,    AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
General Information
   
53.001   Abbreviations and definitions
   
53.002   Authority and title
   
53.003   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.004   Reserved
   
53.005   Findings
   
53.006   Purpose
   
53.007   Applicability of abbreviations and definitions
   
53.008   Responsibility for administration
   
53.009   Conflicting ordinances
   
53.010   Interpretation
   
53.011   Severability
   
53.012   Effective date
   
53.013   Disclaimer of liability
Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
53.025   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.026   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
53.027   Exempted discharges and connections
   
53.028   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
53.029   Private property maintenance duties
   
53.030   Spill reporting
   
53.031   Inspection and monitoring
Stormwater Quantity Management
   
53.040   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.041   Policy on stormwater quantity management
   
53.042   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
53.043   Drainage easement requirements
   
53.044   Placement of utilities
   
53.045   Reserved
   
53.046   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites
   
53.055   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.056   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
53.057   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
53.058   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Quality Management for Post-Construction
   
53.070   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.071   Policy on stormwater quality management
   
53.072   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
53.073   Easement requirements
   
53.074   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Permit Requirements and Procedures
   
53.085   Conceptual drainage plan review
   
53.086   Permitting procedures
   
53.087   Stormwater approval requirements
   
53.088   Review of individual lots and parcels
   
53.089   Change of plans
   
53.090   Fee structure
   
53.091   Required assurances
   
53.092   Terms and conditions of approvals or permits
   
53.093   Certification of as-built plans
   
53.094   Variance policy
Compliance and Enforcement
   
53.105   Compliance with this chapter
   
53.106   Enforcement of this chapter
   
53.107   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
53.108   Appeals
Stormwater Technical Standards
   
53.115   Stormwater Technical Standards adopted by reference
GENERAL INFORMATION
§ 53.001 ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Abbreviations.
BMP   Best Management Practice
COE   United States Army Corps of Engineers
CWA   Clean Water Act
EPA   Environmental Protection Agency
GIS   Geographical Information System
IDEM  Indiana Department of Environmental Management
MS4   Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
NRCS  USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service
NPDES National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
POTW  Publicly Owned Treatment Works
SWCD  Soil and Water Conservation District
SWPPP Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
USDA  United States Department of Agriculture
USFWS United States Fish and Wildlife Service
 
   (B)   Definitions.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tile. For purposes of this chapter, the
term does not include land disturbing activities for the construction of
agricultural related facilities, such as barns, buildings to house livestock,
roads associated with infrastructure, agricultural waste lagoons and
facilities, lakes and ponds, wetlands; and other infrastructure.
      BASE FLOW. Stream discharge derived from groundwater sources as
differentiated from surface runoff. Sometimes considered to include flows from
regulated lakes or reservoirs.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Design, construction, and maintenance
practices and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
      BUFFER STRIP. An existing, variable width strip of vegetated land
intended to protect water quality and habitat.
      CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY). The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
      CATCH BASIN. A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the
admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base a
sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of overflow.
      CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
link between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.
      COMPREHENSIVE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. A comprehensive stormwater program
for effective management of stormwater quantity and quality throughout the
community.
      CONSTRUCTED WETLAND. A manmade shallow pool that creates growing
conditions suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize
pollutant removal.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbing activities associated with the
construction of infrastructure and structures. This term does not include
routine ditch or road maintenance or minor landscaping projects.
      CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
      CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
      CONTOUR. An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting points
of the same elevation.
      CONTOUR LINE. Line on a map which represents a contour or points of equal
elevation.
      CONTRACTOR or SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the
project site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot
operator to perform services on the project site.
      CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
      CROSS SECTION. A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream valley
or a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream or
direction of flow.
      CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage
water under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
      DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has either
sat idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than five-hundredths milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
      DESIGN STORM. A selected storm event, described in terms of the
probability of occurring once within a given number of years, for which
drainage or flood control improvements are designed and built.
      DETENTION. Managing stormwater runoff by temporary holding and controlled
release.
      DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow
of stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the
excess waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
      DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining of stormwater in storage
facilities, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks, open
spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with the
rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices.
      DETENTION TIME. The theoretical time required to displace the contents of
a tank or unit at a given rate of discharge (volume divided by rate of
discharge).
      DETRITUS. Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed to
stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
      DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity,
or an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any
lots in a subdivision.
      DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
            1.   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or
any addition to a building;
            2.   Construction of flood control structures such as levees,
dikes, dams or channel improvements;
            3.   Construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
            4.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more
than 180 days;
            5.   Installing utilities, erection of walls, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
            6.   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
            7.   Storage of materials; or
            8.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
         (b)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance
of existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
buildings.
      DISCHARGE. Usually the rate of water flow. A volume of fluid passing a
point per unit time commonly expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters
per second, gallons per minute, or millions of gallons per day.
      DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so
that the solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may
enter the environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any
waters, including groundwaters.
      DITCH. A manmade, open watercourse in or into which excess surface water
or groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
      DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
means of ditches or subsurface drains. Also see NATURAL DRAINAGE.
      DRAINAGE AREA. The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may
be of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface runoff area is considered as the drainage area.
      DRY WELL. A type of infiltration practice that allows stormwater runoff
to flow directly into the ground via a bored or otherwise excavated opening in
the ground surface.
      DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
      ENVIRONMENT. The sum total of all the external conditions that may act
upon a living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
      ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI). The soil ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI) provides a
numerical expression of the potential for a soil to erode considering the
physical and chemical properties of the soil and the climatic conditions where
it is located. The higher the index, the greater the investment needed to
maintain the sustainability of the soil resource base if intensively cropped.
It is defined to be the maximum of (RxKxLS)/T (from the Universal Soil Loss
Equation) and (Cxl)/T (from the Wind Erosion Equation), where R is a measure of
rainfall and runoff, K is a factor of the susceptibility of the soil to water
erosion, LS is a measure of the combined effects of slope length and steepness,
C is a climatic characterization of windspeed and surface soil moisture and I
is a measure of the susceptibility of the soil to wind erosion. ERODIBILITY
INDEX scores equal to or greater than 8 are considered highly erodible land.
      EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice,
gravity, or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe
different types of water erosion:
         ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal or geologic
erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of man.
         CHANNEL EROSION. n erosion process whereby the volume and velocity of
flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
         GULLY EROSION. An erosion process whereby runoff water accumulates in
narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the soil to
considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 to 100 feet.
         RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small channels only
several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently disturbed and exposed
soils (see RILL).
         SHEET EROSION. The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of soil
from the land surface by runoff water.
         SPLASH EROSION. The spattering of small soil particles caused by the
impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may or
may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A practice, or a combination of practices,
to minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion at the
source and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being
discharged from or within a project site.
      FILTER STRIP. Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually, 20 to 75
feet wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or
impervious surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants for the protection of
watercourses, reservoirs, or adjacent properties.
      FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
      FLOOD (OR FLOOD WATERS). A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel which
have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year flood. Any
normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by water from any
natural source. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain lying outside the
floodway, which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
      FOOTING DRAIN. A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement
wall foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater elevation.
      FLUVIAL EROSION HAZARD (FEH) CORRIDOR. FLUVIAL (RIVERINE) EROSION HAZARD
CORRIDORS represent the areas along the streams (including the channel and
immediate overbanks areas) that are believed to be subject to stream movement
or streambank erosion. These corridors have been delineated for most actively
migrating and relatively stationary streams in Indiana through an Indiana
Silver Jackets initiative. The corridor maps associated with the Town of
Fortville streams are available on the Hancock County GIS website. More
detailed mapping than that used as part of the Indiana Silver Jackets erosion
hazard mapping program may be provided by the applicant if it is based on
detailed field assessment acceptable to the town.
      GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semisolid
wastes resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
or consumption of food or food materials.
      GASOLINE OUTLET. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
primary function is the resale of fuels. The term applies to facilities that
create 5,000 or more square feet of impervious surfaces, or generate an average
daily traffic count of one hundred vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
      GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM. A computer system capable of assembling,
storing, manipulation, and displaying geographically referenced information.
This technology can be used for resource management and development planning.
      GRADE.
         (a)   The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, or the
like, or natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage
the vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
         (b)   The finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment,
or bottom of excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the
support of construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit.
         (c)   To finish the surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of
embankment, or bottom of excavation, or other land area to a smooth, even
condition.
      GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope
or elevation.
      GRASS. A member of the botanical family Graminae, characterized by blade-
like leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
      GROUNDWATER. Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial.
The term does not include manmade underground storage or conveyance structures.
      HABITAT. The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal are
supplied.
      HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND (HEL). Land that has an erodibility index of eight
or more.
      HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE. A numeric United States Geologic Survey code that
corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric code.
      HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
surface of the earth, and underground. A typical hydrologic study is undertaken
to compute flow rates associated with specified flood events.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or
tree limbs.
      IMPAIRED WATERS. Waters that do not or are not expected to meet
applicable water quality standards, as included on IDEM’s CWA Section 303(d)
List of Impaired Waters.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which
prevent the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
      INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual lot.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial control of construction
activities for an individual lot.
      INFILTRATION. Passage or movement of water into the soil. INFILTRATION
practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
run-off through the soil to groundwater. Examples include infiltration basins
or trenches, dry wells, and porous pavement.
      INLET. An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of surface
storm water runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
      LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any manmade change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil,
excavating, filling, transporting and grading.
      LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed under the laws of the State of Indiana
to practice land surveying.
      LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a
structure, where the soil meets the foundation around the outside of the
structure, including structural members such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well.
      LOWEST FLOOR. Refers to the lowest of the following:
         (a)   The top of the basement floor;
         (b)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level
of the building;
         (c)   The top of the first floor of buildings constructed on a slab or
of buildings elevated on pilings or constructed on a crawl space with permanent
openings; or
         (d)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
            1.   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
flood waters, by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways
and windows) having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet
of enclosed area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be
no higher than one foot above grade.
            2.   Such enclosed space shall be usable only for the parking of
vehicles or building access.
      MANHOLE. Storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
      MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half inch of
rainfall.
      MULCH. A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover, and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM. An MS4 meets all the following
criteria:
         (a)   Is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the state,
county, city, town, or other public entity;
         (b)   Discharges to waters of the U.S.;
         (c)   Is designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
         (d)   Is not a combined sewer; and
         (e)   Is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW).
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A permit developed by
the U.S. EPA through the Clean Water Act. In Indiana, the permitting process
has been delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal stormwater
quality.
      NATURAL DRAINAGE. The flow patterns of stormwater run-off over the land
in its pre-development state.
      NUTRIENT(S).
         (a)   A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction of
organisms.
         (b)   In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates)
that promote growth of algae and bacteria.
      OPEN DRAIN. A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that
conveys drainage water.
      OPEN SPACE. Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious surfaces
created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural, or other manmade
activities.
      OUTFALL. The point, location, or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
      OUTLET. The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake,
tidewater, or artificial drain.
      PEAK DISCHARGE (OR PEAK FLOW). The maximum instantaneous flow from a
given storm condition at a specific location.
      PERCOLATION. The movement of water through soil.
      PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform density of 70%
across the disturbed area, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or
other movement.
      PERVIOUS. Allowing movement of water.
      POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance
including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, or container from which pollutants are or maybe discharged
(P.L. 92-500, Section 502[14]).
      POROUS PAVEMENT. A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality
and reduce the quantity of stormwater run-off via the use of manmade, pervious
pavement which allows run-off to percolate through the pavement and into
underlying soils.
      PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the State of
Indiana to practice professional engineering.
      PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
      PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit a stormwater permit/
approval application, and required to comply with the terms of this chapter,
including a developer or a person who has financial and operational control of
construction activities, and project plans and specifications, including the
ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications.
      RAIN GARDEN. A vegetative practice used to alter impervious surfaces,
such as roofs, into pervious surfaces for absorption and treatment of rainfall.
      RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL, OR RECEIVING WATER. The body of
water into which runoff or effluent is discharged. The term does not include
private drains, unnamed conveyances, retention and detention basins, or
constructed wetlands used as treatment.
      RECHARGE. Replenishment of groundwater reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
      REDEVELOPMENT. Alterations of a property that change a site or building
in such a way that there is disturbance of one acre or more of land. The term
does not include such activities as exterior remodeling.
      REFUELING AREA. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose
primary function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-year
flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
accepted by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known as the BASE
FLOOD.
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
      RELEASE RATE. The amount of stormwater release from a stormwater control
facility per unit of time.
      RESERVOIR. A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space
used for storage, regulation or control of water. May be either permanent or
temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
      RETENTION. The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
      RETENTION BASIN. A type of storage practice, that has no positive outlet,
used to retain stormwater run-off for an indefinite amount of time. Runoff from
this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous bottom or
by evaporation.
      RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a return period of 100
years has a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one year.
      RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a waterbody that supports
animal and plant life associated with that waterbody.
      RIPARIAN ZONE. Of, on, or pertaining to the banks of a stream, river, or
pond.
      RUNOFF. That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on
the land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.
      RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm drain system to the total amount of
rain falling. A coefficient of 0.5 implies that 50% of the rain falling on a
given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth’s surface.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
      SENSITIVE WATER. A waterbody in need of priority protection or
remediation based on its:
         (a)   Providing habitat for threatened or endangered species,
         (b)   Usage as a public water supply intake,
         (c)   Relevant community value,
         (d)   Usage for full body contact recreation,
         (e)   Exceptional use classification as found in 327 I.A.C. 2-1-11(b),
         (f)   Outstanding state resource water classification as found in 327
I.A.C. 2-1-2(3) and 327 I.A.C. 2-1.5-19(b).
      SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on
which land disturbing activity is to be performed.
      SLOPE. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as
a numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is
commonly the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance
(rise), e.g., 2:1. However, the preferred method for designation of SLOPES is
to clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length (L)
and Width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that according to
international standards (metric), the SLOPES are presented as the vertical or
width component shown on the numerator, e.g., 1V:2H. SLOPE expressions in this
chapter follow the common presentation of SLOPES, e.g., 2:1 with the metric
presentation shown in parentheses, e.g., (1V:2H). SLOPES can also be expressed
in percents. SLOPES given in percents are always expressed as (100*V/H), -e.g.,
a 2:1 (1V:2H) SLOPE is a 50% SLOPE.
      SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A public organization created under
state law as a special purpose district to develop and carry out a program of
soil, water, and related resource conservation, use, and development within its
boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a local governing body,
established under I.C. 14-32.
      SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, debris, or other discarded material.
      SPILL. The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping,
leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum, hazardous
substances, extremely hazardous substances, or objectionable substances. The
term does not include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does
not migrate off the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
      STORM DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any
stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to be
stored.
      STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration storm
event is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
      STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a STORM DRAIN.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
      STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan developed to minimize the
impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction activities.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a
tributary basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in
channels or conduits.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
      STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or manmade, used for
conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
      STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road.
      SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided into
lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for the purpose of
sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
      SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A pervious backfield trench, usually containing stone
and perforated pipe, for intercepting groundwater or seepage.
      SURFACE RUNOFF. Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground, etc., and is not absorbed or retained by that surface but
collects and runs off.
      SWALE. An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least
seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing
water. SWALES conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide
some groundwater recharge.
      TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding, or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch, or other non-erosive material applied at a uniform density of
70% across the disturbed area.
      TILE DRAIN. Pipe made of perforated plastic, burned clay, concrete, or
similar material, laid to a designed grade and depth, to collect and carry
excess water from the soil.
      TOPOGRAPHIC MAP. Graphical portrayal of the topographic features of a
land area, showing both the horizontal distances between the features and their
elevations above a given datum.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The representation of a portion of the earth’s surface
showing natural and manmade features of a give locality such as rivers,
streams, ditches, lakes, roads, buildings and most importantly, variations in
ground elevations for the terrain of the area.
      TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of stormwater quality, including erosion and sediment control as may
be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification, experience,
or completion of coursework that enable the individual to make judgments
regarding stormwater control or treatment and monitoring.
      URBAN DRAIN. A drain defined as “urban drain” in Indiana Drainage Code.
      URBANIZATION. The development, change or improvement of any parcel of
land consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational or public utility purposes.
      VEGETATED SWALE. A type of vegetative practice used to filter stormwater
runoff via a vegetated, shallow-channel conveyance.
      WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
      WATER RESOURCES. The supply of groundwater and surface water in a given
area.
      WATERBODY. Any accumulation of water, surface, or underground, natural or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
      WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or manmade
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a specific
point that could be along a stream, lake or other stormwater facilities.
WATERSHEDS are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic
modeling.
      WATERSHED AREA. All land and water within the confines of a drainage
divide. See also WATERSHED.
      WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.002 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in accordance with statutory authority granted
to the town under “Home Rule”, and further required by Phase II of the National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System program (FR Doc. 99-29181) authorized by
the 1972 amendments to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management’s Rule 13 (327 I.A.C. 15-13), and the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management’s Rule 5 (327 I.A.C. 15-5). Based on
this authority and these requirements, this chapter regulates:
      (1)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the storm drain
system.
      (2)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development of lands
located within the town.
      (3)   Drainage control systems installed during new construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (4)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during new
construction and grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (5)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems.
      (6)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
      (7)   The design, construction, and maintenance of new dams.
      (8)   The development downstream of existing dams.
      (9)   Development within floodways and fluvial erosion hazard corridors.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Town of Fortville
Stormwater Management Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.003 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS,
   (A)   This chapter shall regulate all development and redevelopment
occurring within the town. No building permit shall be issued and no land
disturbance started for any construction in a development, as defined in §
53.001, until the plans required by this chapter for such construction have
been accepted in writing by the town. With the exception of the requirements of
§§
53.025 through
53.031 and
53.088, single-family dwelling houses in accepted subdivisions, new buildings
(or cumulative building additions) with less than 500 square feet of area, and
land-disturbing activities affecting less than 10,000 square feet of area shall
be exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Also exempt from this chapter
shall be the agricultural land-disturbing activities.
   (B)   Town government projects shall be exempt from obtaining a stormwater
permit, but are expected to meet all applicable technical requirements of this
chapter and the Town of Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   The town has the authority to modify, grant exemptions, and/or waive
any and all the requirements of this chapter and its associated technical
standards document. A pre-submittal meeting with town staff may be requested by
the applicant to discuss the applicability of various provisions of this
chapter and its associated technical standards document with regards to unique
or unusual circumstances relating to a project. However, any initial
determination of such applicability shall not be binding on future
determinations of town staff that may be based on the review of more detailed
information and plans.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.004 RESERVED.
§ 53.005 FINDINGS.
   The Town Council finds that:
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within and
downstream of the town are at times subjected to flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, increased flooding,
increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
   (D)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs;
   (E)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development projects
within the town will, absent reasonable regulation and control, adversely
affect the town’s water bodies and water resources;
   (F)   Pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within the town will,
absent reasonable regulation, monitoring, and enforcement, adversely affect the
town’s water bodies and water resources;
   (G)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution, and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by the regulation
of stormwater management;
   (H)   Benefits of Fluvial Erosion Hazard (FEH) corridor maps. An FEH
corridor map shows the area a river needs to accommodate equilibrium
conditions, specifically the meanders (stream length) and slope requirement of
a stable stream channel. It also shows the land most vulnerable to erosion from
flooding. Preventing further encroachment into the FEH corridors will minimize
fluvial erosion hazards and property loss from flooding, enhance public safety,
maximize channel stability, and maintain or improve water quality and habitat
function;
   (I)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained and
referenced in this chapter and implementing the same will address many of the
deleterious effects of stormwater runoff, illicit discharges, and fluvial
erosion hazards;
   (J)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the protection of property,
preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare, for the conservation of
our natural resources, and for compliance with state and federal regulations.
   (K)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the protection of mutual and
private drains.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.006 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the town through the regulation of
stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system and to
protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources within the town. This chapter establishes methods for managing the
quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the storm drain system in
order to comply with state and federal requirements. The objectives of this
chapter are:
   (A)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by excessive
stormwater runoff.
   (B)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from construction site runoff.
   (C)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from runoff from new development and redevelopment.
   (D)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the storm drain system.
   (E)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, monitoring,
and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.007 APPLICABILITY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the abbreviations and definitions provided
in §
53.001 shall apply.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.008 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Council and/or the Planning Director or Town Manager shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted or duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement agency may be
delegated in writing by the town to qualified persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the town.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.009 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional requirements to
minimum standards required by other Fortville ordinances, and as supplemental
requirements to Indiana’s Rule 5 regarding Stormwater Discharge Associated with
Construction Activity, (327 I.A.C. 15-5), and Indiana’s Rule 13 regarding
Stormwater Runoff Associated with Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
Conveyances (327 I.A.C. 15-13). In case of conflicting requirements, the most
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.010 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in §
53.001 shall be construed according to the respective definitions given in that
section. Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in this
chapter but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in technical
usage shall be construed according to such meanings.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.011 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared severable, and if any
court of competent jurisdiction should declare any part or provision of this
chapter invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not
affect any other part or provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.012 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective after its final passage, approval, and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.013 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records,
engineering, and scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or
stormwater runoff amounts may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater
damage. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the town or any
officer, representative, or employee thereof, for any damage which may result
from reliance on this chapter on any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
   (B)   The words “approve” and “accept”, and their common derivations as used
in this chapter in relation to plans, reports, calculations, and permits shall
mean that Fortville has reviewed the material produced and submitted by the
applicant or his or her agents for general compliance with this chapter and the
Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and that such a compliance
would qualify the applicant to receive a stormwater management approval or
permit. Such an “approval” or “acceptance” is based on the assumption that the
project engineer has followed all appropriate engineering methods in the
design. Any stormwater quality or stormwater quantity (drainage) problems
associated with the project caused by poor construction by the contractor and/
or poor engineering design or judgment, either on-site or off-site, are the
responsibility of the developer and the project engineer.
   (C)   Consideration, design, construction, and maintenance of safety
measures for proposed or existing stormwater facilities shall be the
responsibility of the developer, applicant, and/or the property owner. The town
or its officials and representatives shall not be responsible for maintenance
and/or liable for any accidents resulting from adequacy or lack of such safety
measures.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.025 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to all discharges, including illegal
dumping, entering the storm drain system under the control of the town,
regardless of whether the discharge originates from developed or undeveloped
lands, and regardless of whether the discharge is generated from an active
construction site or a stabilized site. These discharges include flows from
direct connections to the storm drain system, illegal dumping, and contaminated
runoff.
   (B)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and mining
activities is exempted from the requirements of this subchapter unless
determined to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in
excess of standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this
exemption.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
acceptance has been granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain
system, is also exempted from this subchapter.
   (D)   Finally, any construction project which has had its drainage plan
approved by Hancock County prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be
exempt from all requirements of this chapter that are in excess of the
requirements of ordinances in effect at the time of approval.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.026 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to a MS4 conveyance, watercourse, or
waterbody, directly or indirectly, any substance other than stormwater or an
exempted discharge. Any person discharging stormwater shall effectively
minimize pollutants from also being discharged with the stormwater, through the
use of best management practices (BMPs).
   (B)   The town is authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution
prevention measures, utilizing BMPs, necessary to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants into the town’s stormwater drainage system.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.027 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements in this chapter, the following categories
of non-stormwater discharges or flows are exempted from the requirements of
this subchapter:
   (A)   Water line flushing;
   (B)   Landscape irrigation;
   (C)   Diverted streamflows;
   (D)   Rising ground waters;
   (E)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
   (G)   Discharges from potable water sources;
   (H)   Foundation drains;
   (I)   Air conditioning condensation;
   (J)   Irrigation water;
   (K)   Springs;
   (L)   Water from crawl space pumps;
   (M)   Footing drains;
   (N)   Lawn watering;
   (O)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
   (P)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
   (Q)   Discharges from firefighting activities;
   (R)   Naturally introduced detritus (e.g., leaves and twigs);
   (S)   Dye-testing authorized by the town or Hancock County.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.028 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
watercourse, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly
prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material, including
sewage treatment plant stockpiles, on active construction sites must include
adequate protection and/or containment so as to prevent any such materials from
entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance or watercourse.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.029 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse located
within their property boundaries free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation,
and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard
the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee
shall maintain existing privately-owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse and/or drainage easements, so that such structures will not become
a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.030 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a waterbody any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the Hancock County Health Department and Hancock County Emergency
Management agency concerning the discharge. A written report concerning the
discharge shall be filed with the town and IDEM, by the discharger, within five
days. The written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence;
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter.
   (B)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section. This requirement does not relieve discharger
from notifying other entities as required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.031 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system. The town has the authority to periodically
inspect that portion of the storm drainage system under the town’s control, in
an effort to detect and eliminate illicit connections and discharges into the
system. This inspection will include a screening of discharges from outfalls
connected to the system in order to determine if prohibited flows are being
conveyed into the storm drainage system. It could also include spot testing of
waters contained in the storm drainage system itself to detect the introduction
of pollutants into the system by means other than a defined outfall, such as
dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Potential polluters. If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the town may
inspect and/or obtain stormwater samples from stormwater runoff facilities of
the subject discharger, to determine compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. Upon request, the discharger shall allow the town’'s properly
identified representative to enter upon the premises of the discharger at all
hours necessary for the purposes of such inspection or sampling. The town or
its properly identified representative may place on the discharger’s property
the equipment or devices used for such sampling or inspection. Identified
illicit connections or discharges shall be subject to enforcement action as
described in §§
53.105 through
53.108.
   (C)   New development and redevelopment. Following the final completion of
construction and the receipt of as-built drawings, the town has the authority
to inspect new development and redevelopment sites to verify that all on-site
stormwater conveyances and connections to the storm drainage system are in
compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT
§ 53.040 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The storage and controlled release rate of excess stormwater runoff shall be
required for all new business, commercial and industrial developments,
residential subdivisions, planned development, rural estate subdivisions, and
any redevelopment or other new construction located within the town. The Town
Council, Town Manager or Planning Administrator, after thorough investigation
and evaluation, may waive the requirement of controlled runoff for minor
subdivisions and parcelization. Additional potential exemptions regarding the
detention requirements are provided under §
53.040.
§ 53.041 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT.
   It is recognized that most streams and drainage channels serving the town do
not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey stormwater runoff resulting
from continued urbanization. Accordingly, the storage and controlled release of
excess stormwater runoff as well as compensation for loss of floodplain storage
shall be required for all developments and redevelopments (as defined in §
53.001) located within the town. Control devices shall limit the discharge to a
rate such that the post-developed release rate from the site is no greater than
0.1 cfs per acre of development for zero- to ten-year return interval storms
and 0.3 cfs per acre of developed area for 11- to 100- year return interval
storms. The above fixed general release rates may be set at a lower value by
the town for geographical areas determined as impact drainage area or for
certain watersheds if more detailed data becomes available as a result of
comprehensive watershed studies conducted and/or formally approved and adopted
by the town. Additional details regarding the release rate requirements,
available basin-specific release rates, downstream restriction considerations,
acceptable outlet, adjoining property impact considerations, fluvial erosion
hazards considerations, policy on dams and levees, and compensatory floodplain
storage rates are detailed in the Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.042 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater facilities shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications outlined in the Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
The methods and procedures in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual are
consistent with the policy stated above.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.043 DRAINAGE EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Drainage easements (DEs) are stormwater easements and drainage rights-
of-way that are dedicated to the public and trusted to the town for the purpose
of controlling surface water and/or for the installation, operation, and
maintenance of storm sewers as defined in this section. These drainage
easements are established under authority of the Indiana Drainage Code and the
town may exercise powers and duties as provided in said code (e.g., annual
drainage assessment per lot).
   (B)   There shall be no trees or shrubs planted, nor any structures or
fences erected in any drainage easement, unless otherwise allowed by the town.
All stormwater systems, including detention or retention basins, conveyance
systems, structures and appurtenances, located outside of the right-of-way may
be incorporated into the town system at the discretion of the town. The
developer shall incorporate the storm system into the town system.
   (C)   If the town accepts the petition for incorporation into their system,
the following statement shall become part of the restrictive covenants of every
platted subdivision and shown on recorded plat:
      “Channels, storm sewers, inlets and outlets of detention and retention
ponds, and appurtenances thereto within designated Drainage Easements (DEs) are
extensions of the Town of Fortville stormwater drainage system and are the
responsibility of the Town. Specific definitions and requirements associated
with these DEs and noted storm drainage systems are contained in Chapter §
53.304 of the Fortville Stormwater Management Ordinance and in the Fortville
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Drainage swales shall be the
responsibility of the property owner or homeowner association.”
   (D)   The following statement shall be put on each subdivision plat:
      “The storm drainage system and its easements that are accepted into the
Town of Fortville’s drainage system are delineated on the plat as Drainage
Easements (DEs).”
   (E)   Any encroachment of a drainage easement requires approval by the town.
   (F)   All new channels, swales, drain tiles, inlet and outlet structures of
detention and retention ponds, and appurtenances thereto as required by this
subchapter, that are installed on municipal or school property will be
maintained, repaired, and constructed by the entity. The design must meet the
standards of this chapter for sizing and installation. Any off-site portion of
the drainage system must be within easements and have clearly defined
maintenance agreements.
   (G)   Additional easement requirements along stormwater conveyance systems
and stormwater BMPs are contained in the Fortville Stormwater Technical
Standards.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.044 PLACEMENT OF UTILITIES.
   No utility company may disturb existing storm drainage facilities without
the consent of the town. All existing drainage facilities shall have senior
rights and damage to said facilities shall result in penalties as prescribed in
§
53.105 through
53.108.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.045 RESERVED.
§ 53.046 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the stormwater management approval is granted by the town and
the commencement of construction activities, the town has the authority to
conduct inspections of the work being done to ensure full compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter, the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and
the terms and conditions of the approval. After construction is complete, the
town or its authorized agent will inspect the site and provide written comments
on items that need corrected. After items have been corrected, the town or its
authorized agent will re-inspect at no charge. Further inspections may result
in a charge based on the amount of time spent.
   (B)   The town or its authorized agent also has the authority to perform
long-term, post-construction inspection of all public or privately-owned
stormwater quantity facilities. The inspection will cover physical conditions,
available storage capacity, and the operational condition of key facility
elements. Stormwater quantity facilities shall be maintained in good condition,
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the stormwater management
approval, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised or replaced except in
accordance with the stormwater approval, or in accordance with approved
amendments or revisions to the original stormwater management approval. If
deficiencies are found during the inspection, the owner of the facility will be
notified by the town and will be required to take all necessary measures to
correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies
within the allowed time period, as specified in the town notification, the town
will undertake the work and collect from the owner using bonds and/or lien
rights if necessary.
   (C)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one lot or parcel shall be documented by appropriate covenants to property
deeds, unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body, and
determined before the final stormwater approval.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 53.055 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The town will require a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP),
which includes erosion and sediment control measures and materials handling
procedures, to be submitted as part of the construction plans and
specifications. Any project located within the town and includes clearing,
grading, excavation, and other land disturbing activities resulting in the
disturbance of one acre or more of total land area is subject to the
requirements of this subchapter. This includes both new development and
redevelopment. This subchapter also applies to disturbances of less than one
acre of land that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if
the larger common plan will ultimately disturb one or more acres of land,
within the area under the jurisdictional authority of the town. Section
53.057 provides guidelines for calculating land disturbance. Projects meeting
the coverage requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-5 (Rule 5) shall also be in
compliance with 327 I.A.C. 15-5.
   (B)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities.
   (C)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner must complete their own notice of intent
letter, apply for stormwater management approval from the town, and ensure that
a sufficient construction and stormwater pollution prevention plan is completed
and submitted in accordance with §§
53.085 through
53.094; regardless of whether the individual lot is part of a larger permitted
project site.
   (E)   An individual lot with land disturbance less than one acre, located
within a larger permitted project site, is considered part of the larger
permitted project site, and the individual lot operator must comply with the
terms and conditions of the stormwater approval for the larger project site.
The stormwater approval application for the larger project site must include
typical detailed erosion and sediment control measures for individual lots. In
addition, these individual lots are required to submit individual lot plot plan
permit applications prior to receiving a building permit. Details of the
permitting process are contained in §§
53.085 through
53.094.
   (F)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater management approval application and ensure that a sufficient
construction plan is completed and submitted to the Town in accordance with §§
53.085 through
53.094. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
compliance with this chapter and the Technical Standards during the
construction activity and implementation of the construction plan, and to
notify the town with a sufficient notice of termination letter upon completion
of the project and stabilization of the site. However, all persons engaging in
construction and land disturbing activities on a permitted project site must
comply with the requirements of this subchapter and this chapter as well as the
Technical Standards.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.086 POLICY ON STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is dependent
on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original position
(erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a waterbody
(sediment control), and proper on-site materials handling. The developer must
submit to the town a SWPPP with detailed erosion and sediment control plans as
well as a narrative describing materials handling and storage, and construction
sequencing. This SWPPP must be site and project specific. The following
principles apply to all land-disturbing activities and should be considered in
the preparation of a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan within the town.
   (A)   Minimize the potential for soil erosion by designing a development
that fits the topography and soils of the site. Deep cuts and fills in areas
with steep slopes should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible.
   (B)   Existing vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Except for regulated drains, areas immediately adjacent (within 35
feet of top of bank) to watercourses and lakes also should be left undisturbed
wherever possible. Unvegetated or vegetated areas with less than 70% cover that
are scheduled or likely to be left inactive for seven days or more must be
temporarily or permanently stabilized with measures appropriate for the season
to reduce erosion potential. Alternative measures to site stabilization may be
acceptable if the project site owner or their representative can demonstrate
they have implemented and maintained erosion and sediment control measures
adequate to prevent sediment discharge from the inactive area.
   (C)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence so
that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
   (D)   The length and steepness of designed slopes should be minimized to
reduce erosion potential. Drainage channels and swales must be designed and
adequately protected so that their final gradients and resultant velocities
will not cause erosion in the receiving channel or at the outlet. Methods for
determining acceptable velocities are included in the Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
   (E)   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the project site
shall be treated by erosion and sediment control measures appropriate to
minimize sedimentation. A stable construction site access shall be provided at
all points of construction traffic ingress and egress to the project site.
   (F)   Appropriate measures shall be implemented to prevent wastes or unused
building materials, including, garbage, debris, packaging material, fuels and
petroleum products, hazardous materials or wastes, cleaning wastes, wastewater,
concrete truck washout, and other substances from being carried from a project
site by runoff or wind. Identification of areas where concrete truck washout is
permissible must be clearly posted at appropriate areas of the site. Wastes and
unused building materials shall be managed and disposed of in accordance with
all applicable state statutes and regulations. Proper storage and handling of
materials such as fuels or hazardous wastes, and spill prevention and cleanup
measures (including having spill response equipment on-site) shall be
implemented to minimize the potential for pollutants to contaminate surface or
ground water or degrade soil quality.
   (G)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment that is a result of runoff or tracking. Bulk clearing of accumulated
sediment shall not include flushing the area with water. Cleared sediment shall
be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in accordance with all
applicable statutes and regulations.
   (H)   Collected runoff leaving a project site must be either discharged
directly into a well-defined, stable receiving channel, or diffused and
released to adjacent property without causing an erosion or pollutant problem
to the adjacent property owner.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.057 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this subchapter to the project, the following
guidelines should be used:
      (1)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water, and other utilities) to a land
disturbing project site, must be considered as a part of the total land
disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity is under the
control of the project site owner.
      (2)   Strip developments will be considered as one project site and must
comply with this subchapter unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development or sale.
      (3)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this rule,
the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total area of
land disturbance for improvements, such as, roads, utilities, or common areas,
and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined by the
following:
         (a)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
one-half acre or more, one-half acre of land disturbance must be used as the
expected lot disturbance.
         (b)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
less than one half acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed.
         (c)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of projects
sites, such as industrial and commercial project sites, a minimum of one acre
of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance, unless the
lots are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot must be
calculated as being disturbed.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet
the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the “Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual” or the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
methods and procedures included in these two references are in keeping with the
above stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM’s Rule 5.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.058 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Following the granting of the stormwater management approval by the
town and commencement of construction activities, the town has the authority to
conduct inspections of the site to ensure full compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter, the Technical Standards document, the Indiana Stormwater
Quality Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approval.
   (B)   A self-monitoring program must be implemented by the project site
owner to ensure the stormwater pollution prevention plan is working
effectively. A trained individual, acceptable to the town, shall perform a
written evaluation of the project site by the end of the next business day
following each measurable storm event. If there are no measurable storm events
within a given week, the site should be monitored at least once in that week.
Weekly inspections by the trained individual shall continue until the entire
site has been stabilized and a “verified” copy of the notice of termination has
been issued. The trained individual should look at the maintenance of existing
stormwater pollution prevention measures, including erosion and sediment
control measures, drainage structures, and construction materials storage/
containment facilities, to ensure they are functioning properly. The trained
individual should also identify additional measures, beyond those originally
identified in the stormwater pollution prevention plan, necessary to remain in
compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations.
   (C)   The resulting evaluation reports must include the name of the
individual performing the evaluation, the date of the evaluation, problems
identified at the project site, and details of maintenance, additional
measures, and corrective actions recommended and completed.
   (D)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality, but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this subchapter,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
Recommendations by the trained individual for modified stormwater quality
measures should be implemented.
   (E)   Although self-monitoring reports do not need to be submitted to the
town, the town has the right to request complete records of maintenance and
monitoring activities involving stormwater pollution prevention measures. All
evaluation reports for the project site must be made available to the town, in
an organized fashion, within 48 hours upon request.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 53.070 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
53.055 through
53.058, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, which is to be submitted to
the town as part of the stormwater management permit application, must also
include post-construction stormwater quality measures. These measures are
incorporated as a permanent feature into the site plan and are left in place
following completion of construction activities to continuously treat
stormwater runoff from the stabilized site. Any project located within the town
and includes clearing, grading, excavation, and other land disturbing
activities resulting in the disturbance of one acre or more of total land area
is subject to the requirements of this subchapter. This includes both new
development and redevelopment, and disturbances of less than one acre of land
that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger
common plan will ultimately disturb one or more acres of land, within the area
under the jurisdictional authority of the town.
   (B)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities; or
      (3)   Construction activities associated with a single-family residential
dwelling disturbing less than five acres, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale; or
      (4)   Single-family residential developments consisting of four or less
lots; or
      (5)   A single-family residential strip development where the developer
offers for sale or lease without land improvements and the project is not part
of a larger common plan of development of sale; or
      (6)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
   (C)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater management approval application and ensure that a sufficient
construction plan is completed and submitted to the town in accordance with §§
53.085 through
53.094 and the Technical Standards. It will be the responsibility of the
project site owner to ensure proper construction and installation of all
stormwater BMPs in compliance with this chapter and with the stormwater
management approval, and to notify the town with a notice of termination letter
upon completion of the project and stabilization of the site. However, all
eventual property owners of stormwater quality facilities meeting the
applicability requirements must comply with the requirements of this subchapter
and this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.071 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that developed areas, as compared to undeveloped
areas, generally have increased imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates,
increased runoff rates, increased potential for streambank erosion downstream,
and increased concentrations of pollutants such as fertilizers, herbicides,
greases, oil, salts and other pollutants. As new development and redevelopment
continues in the town, measures must be taken to intercept and filter
pollutants from stormwater runoff prior to reaching regional creeks, streams,
and rivers. Through the use of Best Management Practices (BMPs), stormwater
runoff will be filtered and harmful amounts of sediment, nutrients, and
contaminants will be removed. The town has adopted a policy that the control of
stormwater quality will be based on the management of Total Suspended Solids
(TSS).
   (B)   The project site owner must submit to the town a Storm Water Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWPPP) that would show placement of appropriate BMPs from a
pre-approved list of BMPs specified in the Fortville Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual. The noted BMPs must be designed, constructed, and maintained
according to guidelines provided or referenced in the Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual. Practices other than those specified in the pre-approved list
may be utilized. However, the burden of proof as to whether the performance and
ease of maintenance of such practices will be according to guidelines provided
in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, would be placed with the
applicant. Details regarding the procedures and criteria for consideration of
acceptance of such BMPs are provided in the Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.
   (C)   Requirements of this chapter and the Technical Standards with respect
to post-construction stormwater quality management can be satisfied through a
variety of methods broadly categorized under two general approaches:
      (1)   Conventional approach;
      (2)   Low Impact Development (LID) approach.
   (D)   The site developer and designer are encouraged to review the LID
discussion in the Technical Standards prior to site design.
   (E)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate
practices to reduce lead, copper, zinc, and hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff.
These requirements will apply to all new facilities and existing facilities
that replace their tanks.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.072 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
53.057.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs shall meet the design
criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana Stormwater
Quality Manual or the Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
methods and procedures included in these two references are in keeping with the
above stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM’s Rule 13.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.073 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All stormwater quality management systems, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters, infiltration systems,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances located outside of the right-
of-way shall be incorporated into permanent easements. For the purposes of
access, monitoring, inspection, and general maintenance activities, the design
should include a 30-foot wide drainage easement beyond the actual footprint of
the stormwater quality management facility as well as a 30-foot wide access
easement from a public right-of-way to each BMP. This dimension may be narrowed
in certain circumstances as the discretion of the town, generally to
accommodate denser development patterns.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.074 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After stormwater management approval and the commencement of
construction activities, the town has the authority to conduct inspections of
the work being done to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter, the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and
conditions of the approval.
   (B)   Stormwater quality facilities shall be maintained in good condition,
in accordance with the operation and maintenance procedures and schedules
listed in the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual or the Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual, and/or the terms and conditions of the approved stormwater
permit, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised, or replaced except in
accordance with the stormwater management approval, or in accordance with
approved amendments to the original approval.
   (C)   All stormwater quality facilities will be inspected by representatives
of the project site owner until the project is complete and a notice of
termination has been approved. Inspection frequency shall follow specifications
included in the Operation and Maintenance Manual submitted as part of the
stormwater management approval application. Optional inspection checklists for
some of the more common BMPs can be found in the Technical Standards. Following
project completion, the owner is responsible for inspection and maintenance of
the stormwater quality facilities. Upon approval by the town, the O&M Manual
shall be recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Hancock County.
   (D)   The town has the authority to conduct inspections following project
completion to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
Noted deficiencies and recommended corrective action will be included in an
inspection report. If deficiencies are found during the inspection, the owner
of the stormwater quality facility will be notified by the town and will be
required to take all necessary measures to correct such deficiencies. If the
owner fails to correct the deficiencies within the allowed time period, as
specified in the town notification, the town may undertake the work and collect
from the owner using lien rights if necessary.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
§ 53.085 CONCEPTUAL DRAINAGE PLAN REVIEW.
   In order to gain an understanding of the drainage requirements for a
specific project, a developer may submit conceptual drainage plans and
calculations for review by the town. The direction provided by the town during
such a review is based on preliminary data and shall not be construed as an
approval or binding on either party. The following is a general listing of
minimum data requirements for the review of conceptual drainage plans:
   (A)   Two complete sets of conceptual plans showing general project layout,
including existing and proposed drainage systems (plan sheet sizing must be at
least 11 inches by 17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches).
   (B)   General description of the existing and proposed drainage systems in
narrative form.
   (C)   Watershed boundaries shown on the best source of topographic
information available for the watershed area.
   (D)   Existing watercourse(s) or regulated drains.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.086 PERMITTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   This section applies to all development or re-development of land,
under the jurisdictional authority of the town, which results in land
disturbance of one acre or more. Individual lots with land disturbance less
than one acre that are developed within a larger permitted project site should
refer to §
53.088 for plan review requirements and procedures.
   (B)   There are two scenarios for approval or permit application and
processing procedures. One process is followed for projects located within the
town; the other process is for projects that impact Hancock County regulated
drains but are located within the jurisdictional areas of the town.
   (C)   (1)   Within the town.
         (a)   For projects located within the town, the project site owner
shall submit an application for a stormwater management approval to the town.
The application will include a Notice of Intent letter (NOI), proof of public
notice, construction plan sheets, stormwater drainage technical report, a
stormwater pollution prevention plan, and any other necessary support
information. Specific information to be included in the application can be
found in §
53.088. Additionally, a digital copy of the construction plans is required in a
format approved by the town.
         (b)   The town will provide written comments and sign the plans after
construction approval has been granted. Once the plans have been signed, and
after a pre-construction meeting has been held, construction can commence.
         (c)   The project site owner must notify the town and IDEM 48 hours
before beginning construction. Notification shall be in the form of an updated
NOI. Once construction starts, the project owner shall monitor construction
activities and inspect all stormwater pollution prevention measures in
compliance with this chapter and the terms and conditions of the stormwater
management approval. Upon completion of construction activities, as-built plans
must be submitted to the town in hardcopy and in an electronic format
compatible with the town’s Geographic Information System(GIS). A Notice of
Termination (NOT) shall be sent to the town once the construction site has been
stabilized and all temporary erosion and sediment control measures have been
removed. The town, or representative, shall inspect the construction site to
verify the requirements for an NOT have been met. Once the applicant receives a
“verified” copy of the NOT, they must forward a copy to IDEM. Permits issued
under this scenario will expire five years from the date of issuance. If
construction is not completed within five years, the NOI must be resubmitted at
least 90 days prior to expiration. Figure 1-2020 is a flowchart summarizing the
plan review/permit approval process and can be found at the end of this
section.
   (B)   Impacting a Hancock County regulated drain. For projects located
within the town but impacting Hancock County regulated drains, the project site
owner must submit two copies of the construction plans (which include drainage
plans), erosion and sediment control plans, and a stormwater drainage technical
report to the Hancock County Surveyor. Additionally, a digital copy of the
construction plans is required in a format approved by the Hancock County
Surveyor. If the project must go through a scheduled meeting, all information
must be submitted at least 30 days prior to its regularly scheduled meeting.
The Hancock County Surveyor shall furnish the applicant a written list of
objections to the plans and supporting data submitted by the applicant. This
list of objections, if any, will be related only to the project’s impact on
Hancock County regulated drains. A resubmittal from the applicant addressing
the list of objections shall be provided to the Hancock County Surveyor at
least ten days prior to any required scheduled meeting. Plans in substantial
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the Technical Standards
that need to go through a scheduled meeting shall be placed on the agenda . If
the Hancock County Surveyor approves the project, the applicant must
satisfactorily address all issues listed in the conditional approval to obtain
construction approval. This approval does not alleviate the applicant’s
responsibility to comply with chapter, policy, or resolution requirements of
the town.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.087 STORMWATER APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of the
informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in the §§
53.025,
53.040,
53.055, and
53.070. If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements of this
chapter, an application should be filed listing the exemption criteria met, in
lieu of the information requirements listed below. This level of detailed
information is not required from individual lots, disturbing less than one acre
of land, developed within a larger permitted project site. Review and
acceptance of such lots is covered under §
53.088.
   (B)   The different elements of a permit/approval submittal for a Secondary
Stormwater Plan approval include a Notice of Intent (NOI), proof of publication
of a public notice, construction plans, a stormwater drainage technical report,
a stormwater pollution prevention plan for active construction sites, a post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan, and any other necessary
supporting information. All plans, reports, calculations, and narratives shall
be signed and sealed by a professional engineer or a licensed surveyor,
registered in the State of Indiana.
   (C)   (1)   Draft Notice of Intent. The NOI is a standard form developed by
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management which requires general
project information. The NOI form should be completed in full and accompanied
by proof of publication in a newspaper of general circulation, in the affected
area, that notified the public that a construction activity is to commence. The
publication must include the following language:
      “(Company name, address) is submitting an NOI letter to notify the Town
of Fortville and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management of our
intent to comply with the requirements of the Town of Fortville Stormwater
Management Ordinance, as well as the requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-5 and 327
I.A.C. 15-13, to discharge stormwater from construction activities for the
following project: (name of the construction project, address of the location
of the construction project, and Parcel Identification Number). Run-off from
the project site will discharge to (stream(s) receiving the discharge(s)).”
      (2)   Construction plans. Construction plan sheets and an accompanying
narrative report shall describe and depict the existing and proposed
conditions. Note that in order to gain an understanding of and to evaluate the
relationship between the proposed improvements for a specific project section/
phase and the proposed improvements for an overall multi-section (phased)
project, the detailed information requested herein for the first section/phase
being permitted must be accompanied by an overall project plan that includes
the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of all detention/retention
facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet conditions. Construction
plans need to include items listed in the application checklist provided in the
Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (3)   Stormwater drainage technical report. A written stormwater drainage
technical report must contain a discussion of the steps taken in the design of
the stormwater drainage system. Note that in order to gain an understanding of
and to evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a
specific project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall
multi-section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for
the first section/phase being permitted must be accompanied by an overall
project plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of
all detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. The technical report needs to include items listed in the
application checklist provided in the Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.
      (4)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites. For
sites with total disturbance of land in an amount that would be governed by
this chapter, a stormwater pollution prevention plan associated with
construction activities must be designed to, at least, meet the requirements of
this chapter and must include the information provided in the Fortville
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. For land disturbances totaling less than
one acre but greater than an amount that would be governed by this chapter,
appropriate erosion and sediment control measures that are consistent with the
Fortville Technical Standards must be designed and shown on the plans. The
SWPPP must include items listed in the application checklist provided in the
Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (5)   Post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan. For sites
with total disturbance of land in an amount that would be governed by this
chapter, a post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan must be
designed to, at least, meet the requirements of this chapter and must include
the information provided in the Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan must include
items listed in the application checklist provided in the Fortville Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.088 REVIEW OF INDIVIDUAL LOTS AND PARCELS.
   (A)   For individual lots disturbing less than one acre, developed within a
larger permitted project, or larger than one acre individual parcels that are
not part of a larger permitted project, a formal review and issuance of an
individual lot plot plan permit will be required before a building permit can
be issued. If part of a larger permitted project, all stormwater management
measures necessary to comply with this chapter must be implemented in
accordance with permitted plan for the larger project. All individual lot plot
plans must receive the town’s approval.
   (B)   The following information must be submitted to the Town for review and
acceptance, by the individual lot operator, whether owning the property or
acting as the agent of the property owner, as part of a request for review and
issuance of an individual lot plot plan permit that must be obtained prior to
the issuance of a building permit.
      (1)   The individual lot operator must complete an individual lot permit
request and pay the applicable fee.
      (2)   A certified site layout by an engineer or land surveyor for the
subject lot and all adjacent lots showing the items noted on the plot plan
review form contained in the Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (3)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access.
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance.
         (c)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot.
         (d)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules.
         (e)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization.
         (f)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
      (4)   Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications of the
trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution prevention
self-monitoring program for the project site.
   (C)   The individual lot operator is responsible for installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
   (D)   Further details regarding individual lot and parcel control erosion
and sediment control measures and the information required for permit is
contained in the Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.089 CHANGE OF PLANS.
   Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications after
approval of the applicable stormwater management approval/permit shall be filed
with, and accepted by, the town prior to the land development involving the
change. Copies of the changes, if accepted, shall be attached to the original
plans and specifications.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.090 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Fee amount. As a condition of the submittal and the review of
development plans by the town, the applicant shall agree to pay the town the
applicable fee, as set by the Town Council with respect to the review of all
drainage submittals, preliminary plans, final plans, construction plans and
accompanying information and data, as well as pre-paid inspection fees.
   (B)   Time of payment.
      (1)   After the meeting at which the town is scheduled to consider
acceptance of the applicant’s final stormwater management plan, the town will
furnish a written statement to the applicant specifying the total amount due to
the town in connection with the review of the applicant’s submittals, plans and
accompanying information and data, including the amount required to be paid by
applicant for review and pre-paid inspection fees.
      (2)   As a condition of acceptance of final drainage plans by the town,
the applicant shall pay to the town the sum set forth in said statement. The
town may issue such a billing statement before the project advances to the
final acceptance stage, and such payment is due by applicant upon receipt of
said billing statement regardless of whether the project is advanced to the
final acceptance stage.
      (3)   The town shall have the right to not accept the drainage
improvements or to not accept the advancement of any project for which the
applicable fees have not been paid.
   (C)   Method of payment.
      (1)   Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
         (a)   Check.
         (b)   Money order.
         (c)   Credit card.
      (2)   All checks shall be made payable to the Town of Fortville and
submitted to:
         Town of Fortville
         c/o Planning & Building Director
         714 E. Broadway St.
         Fortville, IN 46040
   (D)   Refund of payment. Fees are refundable only if the town determines
that compliance by the development to this chapter is not necessary.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.091 REQUIRED ASSURANCES.
   As a condition of approval and issuance of the approval/permit, the town
shall require the applicant to provide assurance in form of an irrevocable
letter of credit or a bond when the stormwater management plan has been
accepted, all applicable fees paid, and before construction begins. Said
assurance will guarantee a good faith execution of the stormwater drainage
plan, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, the stormwater quality
management plan, and any approval/permit conditions. The assurance shall be for
an amount equal to 125% of the total costs of all stormwater management
measures for the entire project. The above mentioned costs shall be based on an
estimate as prepared by a registered engineer or land surveyor. Said costs
shall be for the installation and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of erosion
control measures and the construction and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of
storm drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities, and stormwater
quality BMPs, as regulated under this chapter, until the construction is
completed, site is stabilized, and as-built plans are accepted by the town.
Assurances shall be for a minimum of $5,000. The town shall require additional
maintenance assurances for three years for an amount equal to 20% of the total
costs of all stormwater management measures for the entire project. The intent
of this assurance is not only to complete the installation of storm drain
infrastructure for the project, but also to assure that adequate stormwater
pollution prevention measures are properly installed and maintained. If
adequate assurances are set aside by the project site owner for the overall
project, proof of total assurance can be submitted in place of an individual
stormwater assurance.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.092 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVALS OR PERMITS.
   (A)   In granting a stormwater management approval, the town may impose such
terms and conditions as are reasonably necessary to meet the purposes of this
chapter. The project site owner shall ensure compliance with such terms and
conditions. Non-compliance with the terms and conditions of approvals will be
subject to enforcement as described in §§
53.105 through
53.108.
   (B)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractor,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors, and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of the stormwater management
approval/permit and the schedule for proposed implementation.
   (C)   In the event that a project site is determined to impact or discharge
to a sensitive area or is located in an impact drainage area, the town may
require more stringent stormwater quantity and quality measures than detailed
in this chapter, the Stormwater Technical Standards, or in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual.
      (1)   Determination of sensitive areas. Sensitive areas include highly
erodible soils, wetlands, threatened or endangered species habitat, outstanding
waters, impaired waters, recreational waters, and surface drinking water
sources. A listing of highly erodible soils, outstanding water, impaired water,
recreation water, and surface drinking water sources can be found in the latest
edition of Hancock County Storm Water Quality Management Plan (SWQMP) - Part B.
If wetlands are suspected on a site, wetland delineation should be completed in
accordance with the methodology established by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
(COE) and the wetland addressed in accordance to the requirements of this
subchapter. The presence of threatened or endangered species habitat will be
evaluated by the town during the approval/permit review process. Special terms
and conditions for development determined to impact or discharge to any
sensitive area shall be included in the stormwater management approval.
      (2)   Determination of impact drainage areas.
         (a)   The town is authorized, but is not required, to classify certain
geographical areas as impact drainage areas. In determining impact drainage
areas, the town shall consider such factors as topography, soil type, capacity
of existing drains, and distance from adequate drainage facility. The following
areas shall be designated as impact drainage areas, unless good reason for not
including them is presented to the town:
            1.   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the most updated
Fortville Town Code dealing with floodplain regulation.
            2.   Land within a Fluvial Erosion Hazard (FEH) corridor of Hancock
County streams as shown on the FEH maps created by the Indiana Silver Jackets
Fluvial Erosion Hazard Program or any updates, currently hosted on the Hancock
County GIS website.
            3.   Land within 75 feet of each bank of any ditch within the
Hancock County’s regulated drainage system.
            4.   Land within 75 feet of the centerline of any drain tile or
enclosed conduit within the Hancock County’s regulated drainage system.
            5.   Land within the expected breach inundation zone of an existing
or proposed new dam, land within the inundation zone behind an existing or
proposed new dam assumed full of water to the top of the dam, and areas
protected from flooding by a levee.
         (b)   Land that does not have an adequate outlet, taking into
consideration the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an
impact drainage area by the town.
         (c)   Specific requirements for development within impact drainage
areas are contained in Fortville Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
Additional special terms and conditions for development within any impact
drainage area shall be included in the stormwater management approval.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.093 CERTIFICATION OF AS-BUILT PLANS.
   (A)   After completion of construction of the project and before final
project acceptance, a professionally prepared and certified as-built set of
plans shall be submitted to the town for review. Additionally, a digital copy
of the as-built plans is required in a format accepted by the town that must
meet metadata requirements for as-built plans. These plans shall include all
pertinent data relevant to the completed storm drainage system and stormwater
management facilities, and shall include:
      (1)   Pipe size and pipe material.
      (2)   Invert elevations.
      (3)   Top rim elevations.
      (4)   Elevation of the emergency overflow (spillway) for ponds.
      (5)   Pipe structure lengths.
      (6)   BMP types, dimensions, and boundaries/easements.
      (7)   “As-planted” plans for BMPs, vegetation, trees/buffer, as
applicable.
      (8)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume.
      (9)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity.
      (10)   Certified statement on plans stating the completed storm drainage
system and stormwater management facilities substantially comply with
construction plans and the stormwater management approval by the town. (See
certificate in Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.)
   (B)   In addition to the digital copy of as-built plans, digital copies of
all reports and plans noted in §§
53.087 and
53.088 shall be submitted in their final accepted forms to the town so that
they can be electronically filed for any future reference.
   (C)   The property owner, developer, or contractor shall be required to file
a three-year maintenance bond or other acceptable guarantee with the town,
prior to final project acceptance, in an amount not to exceed 20% of the cost
of the stormwater drainage system located outside the public road right-of-
ways, and in a form satisfactory to the town in order to assure that such
stormwater system installation was done according to standards of good
workmanship, that the materials used in the construction and installation were
of good quality and construction, that such project was done in accordance with
the accepted plans and this chapter, and that any off-site drainage problems
that may arise, whether upstream or downstream of such project, will be
corrected if such drainage problems are determined by the town to have been
caused by the development of such project. The bond or other acceptable
guarantee shall be in effect for a period of three years after the date of the
final project acceptance by the town.
   (D)   To verify that all regulated drain tiles are functioning properly,
visual recordings (via closed circuit television) of such tile drains shall be
required, once following the completion of installation (including the
installation of all utility mains) and the second time before release of
maintenance bond. These visual recordings will be scheduled by the town and
paid for by the developer. Notices shall be provided to the town within 72
hours following the completion of installation and again at least 60 days prior
to the expiration date of the maintenance bond so that the noted recordings may
be scheduled. Reports summarizing the results of the noted visual recordings
shall be reviewed and accepted by the town before the plat is recommended for
recording and again before maintenance bond would be recommended to be
released.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.094 VARIANCE POLICY.
   It is recognized that, from time to time, stormwater management design
professionals may need to deviate from policies, procedures, technical
standards, and design criteria adopted by the town. This variance policy is
provided to give the stormwater management design professional guidance on what
deviations from policies, procedures, technical standards, and design criteria
will necessitate a formal variance request. In general, proposed deviations
from policies and procedures set forth in this chapter will be processed as
variances, and proposed deviations from the Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual (including Appendix D of those Standards) will require review and
approval from town staff.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.105 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with the
requirements set forth in the Fortville Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 152) is also necessary. Compliance with all applicable ordinances of
the town as well as with applicable State of Indiana statues and regulations,
federal regulations, and county regulations shall also be required. Unless
otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in this chapter shall be
the most recent edition available. Violations of the requirements of this
chapter are subject to the penalties listed below.
   (A)   Violations Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of
this chapter, the requirements of an approved stormwater management design plan
or approval/permit, and/or the requirements of a recorded stormwater
maintenance agreement may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in
this subchapter. Any such action or inaction is deemed to be a public nuisance
and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of
any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief.
   (B)   Warning notice. When the town finds that any person has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued
hereunder, the town may serve upon that person a written warning notice,
specifying the particular violation believed to have occurred and requesting
the discharger to immediately investigate the matter and to seek a resolution
whereby any offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or resolution of
the matter in response to the warning notice in no way relieves the alleged
violator of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of
the warning notice. Nothing in this division (B) shall limit the authority of
the town to take any action, including emergency action or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a warning notice.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.106 ENFORCEMENT OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   If the town determines that an applicant or other responsible
person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit/approval,
an approved stormwater management design plan, a recorded stormwater management
maintenance agreement, or the provisions of this chapter, it shall issue a
written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person and
the owner of the property. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by
this chapter without having first secured a permit/approval therefor, the
notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in
charge of the activity being conducted on the site.
      (2)   The notice of violation shall contain detailed inspection findings,
conclusions of law, disposition of warning or fines assessed, stipulated
remedial actions as discussed with the responsible party representative,
reasonable deadlines for those remedial actions, and the date of re-inspection.
   (B)   Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties,
and remedies authorized by this chapter, the town may impose alternative
compensatory actions upon a violator, such as storm drain stenciling,
attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, and the like.
   (C)   Civil penalties for violations.
      (1)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to the minimum fines as
specified in the latest version of penalty matrix approved by the Town Council,
plus costs, damages, and expenses. Each day such violation occurs or continues
shall be deemed a separate offense and shall make the violator liable for the
imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for in this
section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
An admission or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this
chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation
of the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within 12 months
of a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for which said
person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
      (4)   The following schedule of fines have been established by the town
for violations associated with the compliance with sediment and erosion control
measures.
Violations First Occurrence Second Occurrence Every Subsequent Occurrence
Violations                 First Occurrence Second Occurrence Every Subsequent
                                                              Occurrence
Construction entrance      $250             $500              $500
Perimeter erosion control  $250             $500              $500
Failure to notify          $100             $200              $200
Streets (sediment)         $100-250-500*    $200-500-1,000*   $200-500-1,000*
Concrete washout           $250-500*        $500-1,000*       $500-1,000*
Solid waste (trash/debris) $100             $200              $200
Use of vacant lot          $100             $200              $200
Beehive/street inlet       $100 each        $200              $200
protection
Notes: * depending on whether it is a small, medium, or large amount
 
   (D)   Stop work order.
      (1)   In addition to the penalties listed above, if land disturbance
activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of this chapter or accepted
final stormwater management plans, the town may order the work stopped by
notice in writing served on any person engaged in the doing or causing of such
work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until
authorized by the town to proceed with the work. A stop work order will be
posted on the site by the town and it is unlawful for any person to remove the
notice or continue any work on the site without permission from the town. The
town may also undertake or cause to be undertaken, any necessary or advisable
protective measures to prevent violations of this chapter or to avoid or reduce
the effects of noncompliance herewith. The cost of any such protective measures
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property upon which the work is
being done and the responsibility of any person carrying out or participating
in the work.
      (2)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not
less than $1,000, and such person shall also pay such costs as may be imposed
in the discretion of the court. A permit/approval reinstatement fee may also be
assessed by the town.
   (E)   Withhold certificate of occupancy. If applicable, the town may refuse
to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements
constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other
responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of
violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
   (F)   Suspension, revocation, of modification of approvals/permits. The town
may suspend, revoke, or modify any existing permit/approval that the violator
may also have been previously granted. A suspended, revoked, or modified
permit/approval may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible
person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or
has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit/
approval may be reinstated upon such conditions as the town may deem necessary
to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary
remedial measures to cure such violations.
   (G)   Suspension of access to the stormwater drainage system.
      (1)   Emergency cease and desist orders.
         (a)   When the town finds that any person has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued hereunder, or
that the person’s past violations are likely to recur, and that the person’s
violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to an actual or threatened
discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States which reasonably appears to
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or to the environment, the town may issue an order to the violator
directing it immediately to cease and desist all such violations and directing
the violator to immediately comply with all chapter requirements and take such
appropriate preventive action as may be needed to properly address a continuing
or threatened violation, including immediately halting operations and/or
terminating the discharge.
         (b)   Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under
this division (G)(1) shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its
endangering discharge. In the event of a discharger’s failure to immediately
comply voluntarily with the emergency order, the town may take such steps as
deemed necessary to prevent or minimize harm to the stormwater drainage system
or waters of the United States, and/or endangerment to persons or to the
environment, including immediate termination of a facility’s water supply,
sewer connection, or other municipal utility services.
         (c)   The town may allow the person to recommence its discharge when
it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the town that the period of
endangerment has passed, unless further termination proceedings are initiated
against the discharger under this chapter. A person that is responsible, in
whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall
submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes of the harmful
discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the town
within five days of receipt of the emergency order. Issuance of an emergency
cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the violator.
      (2)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
town may, without prior notice, suspend stormwater drainage system discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
stormwater drainage system or waters of the state if the violator fails to
comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the town may take such
steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the stormwater
drainage system or waters of the state, or to minimize danger to persons.
      (3)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the stormwater drainage system in violation of this chapter may
have their stormwater drainage system access terminated if such termination
would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The town will notify a violator of
the proposed termination of its stormwater drainage system access. The violator
may petition the town for a reconsideration and hearing. A person commits an
offense if the person reinstates stormwater drainage system access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the town.
   (H)   Criminal penalties for violations. For intentional and flagrant
violations of this chapter, the town may issue a notice to the applicant or
other responsible person and the owner of the property, requiring such person
to appear in the Circuit or Superior Court of Hancock County to answer charges
for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine as
set by the Town Council, plus costs, damages, and expenses or imprisonment for
60 days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation
shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.107 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, the town may, after giving notice and
opportunity for compliance, have the necessary work done, and the owner shall
be required to promptly reimburse the town for all costs of such work.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking such other
lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. Costs
include, but are not limited to, repairs to the stormwater drainage system made
necessary by the violation, as well as those penalties levied by the EPA or
IDEM for violation of the NPDES permit, administrative costs, attorney fees,
court costs, and other costs and expenses associated with the enforcement of
this chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (C)   If the amount due for abatement of the violation is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the town or by the expiration of the time in
which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against
the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
§ 53.108 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person to whom any provision of
this chapter has been applied may appeal in writing, not later than 30 days
after the action or decision being appealed from, to the Town Council the
action or decision whereby any such provision was so applied. Such appeal shall
identify the matter being appealed, and the basis for the appeal. The Town
Council shall consider the appeal and make a decision whereby it affirms,
rejects or modifies the action being appealed. In considering any such appeal,
the Town Council may consider the recommendations of town staff and the
comments of other persons having knowledge of the matter. In considering any
such appeal, the Town Council may grant a variance from the terms of this
chapter to provide relief, in whole or in part, from the action being appealed,
but only upon finding that the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the chapter; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff.
   (B)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within five days of the decision of the Town
Council upholding the decision, then representatives of the town or authorized
agents shall enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take
any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the
property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the town or its designated
contractor or agents to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
STORMWATER TECHNICAL STANDARDS
§ 53.115 STORMWATER TECHNICAL STANDARDS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Fortville Town Council also hereby adopts by reference Stormwater
Technical Standards, which shall be on file at Town Hall for public inspection.
(Ord. 2020-1E, passed 1-6-20)
CHAPTER 54: GARBAGE COLLECTION AND RECYCLING SERVICES
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Garbage receptacles
   
54.03   Removal of garbage to be by contractor designated by town
   
54.04   Placement of containers for collection
   
54.05   Use of recycling containers
   
54.06   Trash collection service
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. All materials resulting from the burning of fuels.
   GARBAGE RECEPTACLE. A container made of metal or plastic of not less than
three nor more than 20 gallons in size, with a closely fitted lid of metal or
plastic and containing a bail for the handling and draining of garbage placed
therein; this term shall also include garbage bags.
   KITCHEN GARBAGE. Any and every accumulation of animal and vegetable matter,
liquid, or solid, resulting from food preparation.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. A container provided by the town for the collection of
designated recyclable materials.
   RUBBISH. All discarded refuse of any household or dwelling including waste
metal material, broken crockery, glass, china ware, grass, leaves, weeds, rags,
bottles, tin cans, paper, and other household trash.
(Ord. 2017-3A, passed 3-20-17)
§ 54.02 GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   The town may, through its designated garbage collection service
provider, provide a garbage receptacle for Each single and double-occupancy
dwelling in the town. Until such time as the town provides residents garbage
receptacles, residents shall be responsible for providing their on receptacles
that meet the standards provided in §
54.01.
   (B)   Garbage receptacles shall be placed outside of all such dwellings at
the time designated by the contractor in §
54.03 and in a readily accessible place so that it may be emptied or removed.
All kitchen garbage shall be placed in garbage receptacles and in no other
place. No other article or thing shall be placed or permitted to be placed in a
garbage receptacle. The receptacle shall not be filled nearer than four inches
from the top of the container. Rubbish and ashes shall be placed in containers
with a capacity of not less than three nor more than 20 gallons in capacity;
such containers shall be provided with handles.
(Ord. 2017-3A, passed 3-20-17)
§ 54.03 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE TO BE BY CONTRACTOR DESIGNATED BY TOWN.
   All kitchen garbage, rubbish, and ashes shall be removed by a contractor
designated by the town.
(Ord. 2017-3A, passed 3-20-17)
§ 54.04 PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS FOR COLLECTION.
   Garbage, rubbish, and ashes shall be deposited in the containers required in
§
54.02 at the edge of the street in front of each home and dwelling disposing of
these materials. The town shall provide for the removal the garbage, rubbish,
and ashes from such points, except where homes and dwellings are located on
through alleys, and in that case the material may be deposited for collection
at a point located on such alley.
(Ord. 2017-3A, passed 3-20-17)
§ 54.05 USE OF RECYCLING CONTAINERS.
   The town may, as part of the garbage collection services provided to town
residents, provide recycling containers in which town residents may deposit
designated recyclable materials such as aluminum, glass, and paper. It shall be
a violation of this section for any non-town resident or business to utilize
the recycling containers. It shall also be a violation of this section for any
person to deposit anything other than designated recyclable materials into a
recycling container.
(Ord. 2017-3A, passed 3-20-17)
§ 54.06 TRASH COLLECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   For the service provided by the town consisting of the collection of
trash, garbage and refuse (i.e., the “trash collection service”), there shall
be charged a monthly fee as set forth in §
11.01 (the “trash collection fee”) to be collected from the owners of each and
every single-family and duplex residential properties in the town that receive
trash collection service under the town’s existing trash collection contract.
   (B)   The trash collection fee shall be prepared, billed and collected by
the town in the manner provided by I.C. 36-9-30, this section and as follows:
      (1)   The trash collection fee shall be prepared and billed monthly.
      (2)   The trash collection fee may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in
the event payment is not made as herein required.
      (3)   The owners of properties served, which are occupied by a tenant or
tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for
the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by such tenant or
tenants, provided that such examination shall be made at the office at which
such records are kept and during the hours that such office is open for
business.
      (4)   All trash collection fees not paid by the seventeenth day of the
month (the “due date”) are hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of
10% of the first $3 of delinquent fees and 3% of the remaining delinquent
balance shall be added to the trash collection fees due on the earlier of the
eighteenth day of the month or the first work day following the due date.
(Ord. 2019-9E, passed 10-7-2019; Am. Ord. 2022-11A, passed 12-5-22)
Cross-reference:
   Trash collection fee, see §
11.01
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
54.05 shall be subject to a penalty of $250 for the first offense and such
penalty shall be increased by $100 for each subsequent violation to the limits
allowed by law. Any person violating any other provision of this chapter shall
be fined not more than $500 for each violation. Every day that a violation
continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-3A, passed 3-20-17)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
74.   NON-TRADITIONAL VEHICLE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Regulations
   
70.15   Horse regulations
   
70.16   Ten thousand pound (five ton) restriction on residential streets
   
70.17   Use of public streets and sidewalks
   
70.18   Railroad regulations
   
70.19   Skateboard and toy vehicle regulations
   
70.20   Turning movements
   
70.21   Bicycle regulations
   
70.22   Miscellaneous driving rules
   
70.23   Mt. Vernon School property
   
70.24   School bus sign arm
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases not specifically defined in this title shall be governed
by the definitions set forth in the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways,
I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq.
(`87 Code, § 8-1)
REGULATIONS
§ 70.15 HORSE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Horses permitted upon public streets.
      (1)   No person shall permit a horse owned by him or her or under his or
her control to be within the town limits, including the park, except upon
public streets. A sidewalk shall not, for the purposes of this section, be
considered to be a part of a public street.
      (2)   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be fined
as determined by §
10.99. (`87 Code, § 8-36) (Ord. 1977-7A, passed 7-12-77)
   (B)   Compliance with signals and signs required.
      (1)   All intersections of streets of the town now or thereafter marked
by automatic stop signals or other signs or signals to indicate the manner of
passing said intersections and on all portions of the streets of the town now
marked or hereafter to be marked by proper signs and signals that would be
readily distinguished as “No Parking” or “Police Order,” places that it shall
be unlawful for any person or persons operating any motor vehicle or horse
drawn vehicle to pass such intersection without first obeying such sign or
signals as indicated thereon.
      (2)   If such sign or signal, automatic or otherwise, indicates to such
person approaching the intersection that he or she shall stop before crossing
such intersection and such person so operating any of such vehicles who fails
or refuses to obey such stop signals and bring such vehicle operated by him or
her to a full stop, until such sign or signal indicated go, shall be guilty of
violation of this section and on conviction shall forfeit and pay to the town
as damages for the violation as determined by §
10.99.
(`87 Code, § 8-37) (Ord. 3-1925, passed 8-11-25)
§ 70.16 TEN THOUSAND POUND (FIVE TON) RESTRICTION ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   General restriction. No person shall drive any vehicle on a
residential street if that vehicle has gross weight of more than 10,000 pounds
(five tons).
   (B)   Limited exceptions to weight limitations. Division (A) above shall not
apply to vehicles under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Any public or private emergency or medical services vehicle;
      (2)   Regular trash removal and pickup service vehicle;
      (3)   Recreational vehicles owned by Fortville residents or visiting
guests;
      (4)   Vehicles picking up and/or delivering goods, or performing services
to or at any location abutting or accessed by a town street, provided that the
drivers of same have in their possession written confirmation or the name and
telephone number of an individual who is authorized and able to confirm that
they are then engaged in such pick-up, delivery of goods or provision of
services;
      (5)   Moving vans engaged in removing or delivering residential or
business property;
      (6)   Construction vehicles which are entering or leaving a construction
site which cannot reasonably be accessed by another route;
      (7)   School buses titled to a municipal entity and use to transport
children to and from school and to and from athletic games, events or school
functions, but not including privately owned vehicles with the capacity of five
passengers or less;
      (8)   (a)   Any vehicle(s) for which permission is granted by the Street
Superintendent or Town Marshal to use residential streets or establish a
service route on residential streets;
         (b)   However, in any such case, such vehicles shall travel over the
shortest possible route upon said street from the point of entry and shall
leave the same at the nearest available point of exit;
      (9)   Vehicles owned and operated by a governmental agency;
      (10)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine as determined by §
10.99 for each violation thereof.
   (C)   Definition. For purposes of this section, RESIDENTIAL STREET shall
mean any roadway within the town limits which is primarily used to provide
circulation of vehicular traffic within neighborhood areas, or to provide
convenient means of ingress and egress for vehicular traffic to reach main
arterial streets, state and federal highways.
   (D)   Streets not covered by this restriction.
      (1)   The following streets are not covered by this restriction:
         (a)   Any state highway within the town limits;
         (b)   Garden Street/1000 North, from State Road 67 to the west
corporate limits;
         (c)   Fortville Pike/Maple Street, from State Road 67 south to
corporate limits;
         (d)   Industrial Drive;
         (e)   Commerce Parkway;
         (f)   Business Park Drive;
         (g)   Ohio Street, from State Road 67 east to Business Park Drive;
         (h)   Michigan Street;
         (i)   Merrill Street, from Michigan Street north to the corporate
limits.
      (2)   Any other street within the town limits will fall under this five-
ton limit.
(Ord. 2010-2A, passed 3-15-10; Am. Ord. 2012-11B, passed 11-19-12)
§ 70.17 USE OF PUBLIC STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall walk, stand or run in a public street if it obstructs
vehicle traffic on a street or pedestrian traffic on a sidewalk, or if it is a
public safety hazard.
   (B)   No person may sell or solicit in a public street without a permit.
   (C)   No objects other than vehicles may be placed upon streets or sidewalks
without a permit. This prohibition includes equipment for basketball, hockey or
other games.
   (D)   No person shall play on a street.
   (E)   No person shall park an inoperable or unlicensed vehicle on a street.
   (F)   No person may work on a vehicle on a public street for more than one
hour if it is on jacks or blocks, and then only if attended by a person over
the age of 18 years.
   (G)   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be fined as
determined by §
10.99. The fine may be paid to the Fortville Violations Bureau. Property placed
upon the streets or sidewalks in violation of this section will be seized and
held until the fine is paid.
(Am. Ord. 1998-5B, passed 6-9-98)
§ 70.18 RAILROAD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Maintenance of railroad crossings.
      (1)   There shall be maintained by all railroads a smooth and level
crossing at all railroad crossings of Main Street and the first alley west of
Main Street. The crossings shall be the complete width of the right-of-way of
the street and alley.
      (2)   Any person or corporation violating any provision of this division
shall be fined as determined by §
10.99. Each day that a person or corporation is found to be in violation of
this division shall constitute a separate offense.
(`87 Code, § 8-44) (Ord. 1965-6A, passed 6-22-65)
   (B)   Railroad right-of-way. All vehicles crossing the railroad right-of-way
at the alley between Main street and Merrill Street shall come to a stop before
entering the intersection and shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
traveling upon the railroad tracks. (`87 Code, § 8-45) (Ord.1966-, passed 7-26-
66)
   (C)   Disregarding railroad crossing signs. No person shall disregard a
railroad crossing arm when lowered and proceed across the railroad tracks
before the crossing arms have fully raised.
(Am. Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
Statutory reference:
   Construction, repairs and maintenance of railroad crossings, see I.C. 8-6-1-
1
   Railroad right-of-way rules and regulations, see I.C. 8-3-1-1
§ 70.19 SKATEBOARD AND TOY VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any areas of town zoned businesses or industrial.
      SKATEBOARD. A device with wheels for riding upon, usually standing,
including, without limitations, skateboards of all types.
      TOY VEHICLES. Coasters, scooters, roller skates, or any other non-
motorized device with wheels or rollers upon which a person may ride. This
definition does not apply, so long as they are used for the purposes for which
they are intended, to wagons, wheelchairs and strollers or other devices
designed and used for the purpose of transporting children, infants, physically
challenged, or incapacitated persons, or to bicycles, or to carts or other
devices intended and used for transporting merchandise or materials.
   (B)   Skateboarding on a street. No person shall operate a skateboard or toy
vehicle on a public street if there is a sidewalk adjacent to such street. If
no sidewalk exists, skateboards may be ridden on the street providing street
riding shall be done as far to the right side of the road as possible, and in
the same direction as traffic.
   (C)   Clinging to a vehicle. No person operating a skateboard, toy vehicle,
or other non- motorized device shall attach himself or herself to any vehicle
upon a roadway.
   (D)   Yield right-of-way. Any person operating a skateboard or other toy
vehicle must yield right-of-way to any pedestrian or motor vehicle.
   (E)   Skateboarding on private property.
      (1)   No person shall operate a skateboard or toy vehicle on the premises
of any business, residence or other private property in violation of a sign
complying with this section.
      (2)   Areas in which skateboarding or operation of a toy vehicle is
prohibited must be indicated by one or more signs which are positioned to
provide notice and which contain the words “No Skateboarding” or any other word
or combination of words indicating that skateboarding or operation of a toy
vehicle is prohibited. Letters on the sign must be clearly legible.
   (F)   Skateboarding on public property. No person shall operate a skateboard
or toy vehicle in, upon, or on the grounds of the fire station, municipal
building or police station.
   (G)   Skateboarding in the business district. No person shall operate a
skateboard or toy vehicle within the town’s business district.
   (H)   Damaging town property. No person shall operate a skateboard or toy
vehicle on or against any town-owned table, bench, structure, tennis court,
parking stop, retaining wall, fountain, statue, or other improvement which may
suffer damage by such use. In addition to any penalty imposed pursuant to
division (L) below, any person violating this section shall be liable for
restitution for said damage. If the person is a minor, his or her parent or
legal guardian shall be jointly liable with the minor for said restitution.
   (I)   Skateboard ramps. No person shall use or place a ramp, jump or any
other device used to force a skateboard or toy vehicle off the pavement on the
grounds of any town-owned parking lot, street, sidewalk, or any portion of any
town park not designated as a skateboard park.
   (J)   Agreement for impoundment. In place of any other penalty provided by
law, any person violating this section may, for a first offense, agree to have
the skateboard of play vehicle impounded by the Police Department for one week.
   (K)   Bicycles not included. The operation of bicycles is covered by other
provisions, and is not intended to be regulated by this section.
(Ord. 2005-10A, passed 10-25-05)
§ 70.20 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Improper left turn. When turning left at an intersection, the turning
vehicle must leave the intersection on the right of the centerline of the road
or street being entered.
   (B)   Improper left turn. When turning left, the turning vehicle shall
initiate the turn from the right half of the road nearest the center line.
   (C)   Improper right turn. When turning tight, the turning vehicle shall
make the turn from as close as practical to the right edge of the road.
   (D)   Improper u-turn. No vehicle shall make a u-turn where an official
traffic control device or sign indicates u-turns shall not be made.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
§ 70.21 BICYCLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Riding more than two abreast. It shall be a violation of this section
to ride with more than two bicycles abreast in any one lane of a street or
road.
   (B)   Using a whistle or siren. No person shall use a whistle or siren in an
unsafe manner while riding a bicycle.
   (C)   Brakes. No bicycle may be operated without at least a rear brake that
functions properly.
   (D)   Passengers. All riders must be carried in a regular seat on the
bicycle.
   (E)   Number of riders. No more than the number of riders a bicycle is
designed for may ride the bicycle at any one time.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
§ 70.22 MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES.
   (A)   Funeral processions. All vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to any
funeral procession until the procession has passed.
   (B)   Parades. All vehicles shall yield die right-of-way to any parade or
similar sanctioned assembly on a public street until the parade or assembly has
passed.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
§ 70.23 MT. VERNON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Leaving vehicles or equipment. No vehicle or equipment shall be left
on school property without authorization.
   (B)   Parking-speed. No vehicle shall be operated across or into any parking
space at a speed in excess of 5 mph.
   (C)   Speeding. No vehicle shall be operated on any other area of school
property at a speed in excess of 15 mph.
   (D)   Parking. Pupils shall only park in student parking areas designated as
student parking.
   (E)   Reckless operation of vehicle. No person shall recklessly operate a
motor vehicle on school property.
   (F)   Parking permit. No pupil shall park any motor vehicle on school
property without displaying a valid sticker on the vehicle.
   (G)   Safe operation of vehicle. No person operating a motor vehicle on
school property shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
   (H)   Travel lanes. Persons operating a motor vehicle on school property
shall operate the motor vehicle only upon travel lanes.
   (I)   Stop signs. All persons operating motor vehicles on school property
shall stop at all stop signs.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
§ 70.24 SCHOOL BUS SIGN ARM.
   Disregard of stop sign. No vehicle or equipment shall pass a school bus when
the bus has its stop sign extended.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
70.19 shall be fined $25 for the first offense and $50 for each offense
thereafter, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2005-10A, passed 10-25-05)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking near fire hydrants
   
71.02   Parking near intersections
   
71.03   Angle parking
   
71.04   Parking citations
   
71.05   Towing and impoundment of motorized and/or non-traditional vehicles
   
71.06   Additional parking provisions
   
71.07   Vehicles of five tons or more in weight
   
71.08   Proper parking required
§ 71.01 PARKING NEAR FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No motor vehicle may be parked within 15 feet of a fire hydrant. In addition
to other penalties provided, such vehicles may be immediately towed away at the
violator’s expense.
(`87 Code, § 8-10) (Ord. 1978-5C, passed 5-23-78)
Statutory reference:
   Parking near a fire hydrant, see I.C. 9-21-16-5
§ 71.02 PARKING NEAR INTERSECTIONS.
   No motor vehicle may be parked within 20 feet of the intersecting extension
of curb lines, of if there are no curbs, within 20 feet of the intersecting
extensions of the traveled portion of the street.
(`87 Code, § 8-11) (Ord. 1978-5C, passed 5-23-78)
§ 71.03 ANGLE PARKING.
   Where angle parking is permitted, no one shall back a vehicle into the
parking space except for the purpose of loading or unloading.
(Am. Ord. 1993-1C, passed 2-9-93)
§ 71.04 PARKING CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle that has accumulated three or more unpaid citations under this
chapter may, upon receiving additional citations, be towed and impounded to
secure payment of the citations and the cost of towing.
(`87 Code, § 8-17) (Ord. 1977-9A, passed 9-13-1977; Am. Ord. 1993-1C, passed 2-
9-93)
§ 71.05 TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTORIZED AND/OR NON-TRADITIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle parked or left standing
unattended upon any street or public place in the town, at any time, in
violation of any provisions of this code or other ordinances of the town, or of
any state law, any motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle known to have been
stolen and so left on any street, or authorized to be towed and impounded by
any state or federal statute, is declared a nuisance and an unlawful
obstruction upon the street or public place, and a hazard to traffic thereon.
   (B)   Any police officer, when discovering a motorized and/or non-
traditional vehicle parked or kept standing unattended, or when it is attended
and the occupant or operator refuses, if able to do so, or fails to move it on
request, shall attach to the motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle, or serve
upon the person a notice of violation, as provided for in this chapter. In
addition, the officer may remove the motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle,
or cause it to be removed to any town-owned or operated property, or to a
private storage area or place authorized pursuant to contract, where the
motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle shall be impounded and detained as
hereinafter provided. The motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle shall be
released only upon a police order authorizing the motorized and/or non-
traditional vehicle to be surrendered, or upon an order of a judge of any court
having jurisdiction, pursuant to any other legal proceedings and only after the
owner's completion of a tow/impound release form and the payment of $20 (the
"vehicle release payment"). If, however, during the impoundment illegal drugs
are discovered in the vehicle, the vehicle release payment shall be $300. And,
if during the impoundment, illegal drugs and fire arms (illegal or otherwise)
are discovered in the vehicle, the vehicle release payment shall be $500.
   (C)   Owner’s risk. Removal and impounding of a motorized and/or non-
traditional vehicle shall be accomplished with reasonable care but otherwise
shall be at the risk of the owner, his or her agent or representative, and the
expense and result of removal and storage shall be borne by the owner, his or
her agent, or representative, for the use and benefit of the town, or of the
person who operates or has charge of the garage or other storage place, whether
public or private, unless otherwise ordered by a judge of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Removal, impounding, and storage of a motorized and/or non-traditional
vehicle, pursuant to this chapter’s provisions, shall in no way supersede, bar,
excuse, or prevent a prosecution of any person or in any way relive him or her
from the penalty prescribed for his violation of this code or any other town
ordinance or state law, for the violation of which the motorized and/or non-
traditional vehicle has been removed, impounded, and stored, but remedies and
penalties are declared to be distinct and separate as means of enforcing
compliance to this code.
   (E)   Refusal to pay impounding costs; affidavit. Whenever an owner, his or
her agent, or representative fails or refuses to pay expenses of removal and
storage of a motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle impounded, in addition to
and separate from the penalty incurred by him or her, the police officer
discovering the motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle parked or left
standing, illegally, shall file or cause to be filed, in any court having
jurisdiction, an affidavit charging the owner, his or her agent, or
representative with the committed offense. The person so charged shall be cited
to appear on a certain day and hour to answer and stand trial upon the charge.
The police officer, who executed the affidavit, shall be present and assist in
the prosecution of the charge.
   (F)   Pending a hearing upon the charge, the owner, his or her agent, or
representative may obtain possession of the impounded motorized and/or non-
traditional vehicle by filing a bond with the clerk of the court of $20 plus
accrued towing and storage charges, or in another reasonable sum fixed by the
judge of the court, conditioned upon the appearance of the owner, his or her
agent or representative before the court at the day and hour set for trial, to
answer the charge in the affidavit.
   (G)   In the event the judge finds the motorized and/or non-traditional
vehicle to have been properly towed and/or impounded, the judge shall, in all
instances, not only assess the penalty prescribed herein, or by law for the
violation, but in addition thereto, shall determine and assess against the
defendant whatever amount, within the limits prescribed by this chapter, the
judge finds from the evidence is a fair and equitable reimbursement to the town
or other persons, for the removal expense for impounding and storage of the
motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle, plus attorney fees incurred by the
town. However, in no event, shall the sum assessed for impounding be more than
the maximum amount in this chapter, but the charge shall be additional to the
assessment of the reasonable charges for the towing and storage of the
motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle, not exceeding the towing and storage
charges herein provided for.
   (H)   Returning car to owner. In the event that the judge finds from the
evidence that the motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle was not parked or
left standing in violation of any provisions of this code, or other ordinance
or statute, as charged in the affidavit, the judge shall order the motorized
and/or non-traditional vehicle restored to the owner, agent or representative
without any penalty or the assessment of any charges made against him or her.
   (I)   Impounding and storing motorized and/or non-traditional vehicles.
Independent of, and in addition to the remedy, action, and assessment of any
penalty provided for such violations, a police officer may order and effect the
removal of the motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle from the street or
other public place and may cause it to be impounded and stored, as provided for
in this chapter, and any action against or charges assessed against or paid by
or for the person as a result of impounding and storage shall be wholly
distinct from and independent of any offense and penalty which may be assessed
against and paid by or for the person.
   (J)   Any and all sums collected in excess of the expenses incurred for
towing and/or storage of an impounded motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle
shall be deposited into the local law enforcement continuing education fund for
expenditure in compliance with the ordinance creating said fund.
   (K)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, whoever violates any
provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more than $200. Whoever violates
any provision of this chapter, and whose motorized and/or non-traditional
vehicle has been impounded, towed in, and stored pursuant to this chapter’s
provisions, in addition to and independent of the payment of all aforesaid
costs and charges incurred by the tow-in, impounding and storage, shall
complete a tow/impound release form and pay the sum of $20 before said
motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle shall be released. Each violation
shall constitute a separate offense in addition to any separate charges
incurred by reason of each separate offense.
(Ord. 2010-3A, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
§ 71.06 ADDITIONAL PARKING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Non-motorized vehicle parking. Non-motorized vehicles may not park
upon the streets, alleyways or easements within the town for more than 72
hours.
   (B)   Parking of registered vehicles. Properly registered vehicles may not
park upon the streets, alleyways or easements within the town for no more than
14 consecutive days.
   (C)   Time limitation. Vehicles may not park on Main Street between Pearl
Street and Staat Street for more than two consecutive hours on either side of
Main Street from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., except on Sunday and all legally
recognized holidays.
   (D)   Sidewalks and other areas. No parking on all streets in the town with
sidewalks on or across, either the sidewalk or the grassy area between the
street or sidewalk.
   (E)   Streets without curbs. No parking on all streets, alleyways and
easements within the town with no curbs on the travel portion of said street,
alleyway or easement for its entire length.
   (F)   Obstruction of Mailbox. No vehicle shall be parked so that it
obstructs access to a mailbox.
(Ord. 2008-11C, passed - -08; Am. Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
§ 71.07 VEHICLES OF FIVE TONS OR MORE IN WEIGHT.
   Parking is prohibited on all streets, alleyways and easements within the
town for all vehicles of five tons or more in weight in excess of 24
consecutive hours in any one location.
(Ord. 2008-11C, passed - -08)
§ 71.08 PROPER PARKING REQUIRED.
   All vehicles parked within the town shall be parked parallel to the curb
facing with the flow of traffic on the side of the street upon which said
vehicle is parked and must be parked no more than 12 inches away from the curb,
unless said vehicle is parked in area marked for diagonal parking, in which
instance said vehicle must be parked facing with the flow of traffic.
(Ord. 2008-11C, passed - -08)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   One-way traffic designations
      
III.   No exit alleys
      
IV.   Preferential streets
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person may operate a motor vehicle on any town residential street
in excess of a speed of 25 miles per hour.
   (B)   No person may operate a motor vehicle on the specified arterial
streets in excess of a speed of 30 miles per hour. The specified arterial
streets are:
      (1)   East Garden Street: beginning approximately 275 feet east from the
intersection of Garden Street and Poplar Street and proceeding east to
municipal limits of the town.
      (2)   West Garden Street: beginning at the intersection of State Road 67
and Garden Street and proceeding west and continuing to municipal limits of the
town.
      (3)   Maple Street: beginning at the intersection of Garden Street and
Maple Street and proceeding south 1,500 feet.
      (4)   East Ohio Street: beginning approximately 300 feet east of the
Emerson Street and Ohio Street intersection and proceeding east to the
municipal limits of the town.
      (5)   Michigan Street from Merrill street to Madison Street.
      (6)   Merrill Street from Michigan Street north to the point of 500 feet
northwest of the intersection of Marie Lane.
   (C)   No person may operate a motor vehicle on the following specified
arterial streets in excess of a speed of 40 miles per hour:
      (1)   200 West from Maple Street/Fortville Pike to S.R. 234.
      (2)   Merrill Street from the point of 500 feet northwest of the
intersection of Marie Lane to the northwest municipal limits of the town.
   (D)   No person may operate a motor vehicle on the following specified
arterial street in excess of a speed of 45 miles per hour:
      (1)   Maple Street from 1,500 feet south of Garden Street to C.R. 900
North.
   (E)   No person may operate a motor vehicle on the following specified
arterial street in excess of a speed of 50 miles per hour:
      (1)   Maple Street from C.R. 900 North to the southern municipal limits
of town.
   (F)   No person may operate a motor vehicle on any street in Memorial Park
in excess of a speed of 15 miles per hour.
   (G)   A school zone is designated from the intersection 200 West and S.R.
234 proceeding 2,700 feet north along 200 West. No person may operate a motor
vehicle within the specified school zone from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday when school is in session in excess of 25 miles per hour.
(`87 Code, § 8-26) (Ord. 1983-6B, passed 6-28-83; Am. Ord. 1993-9A, passed 9-
14-93; Am. Ord. 2000-10B, passed - -00; Am. Ord. 2001-7A, passed - -01; Am.
Ord. 2002-6A, passed 7-24-02; Am. Ord. 2011-6A, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2017-
6E, passed 7-3-17; Am. Ord. 2020-9B, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2022-10A, passed
- -22)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY TRAFFIC DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be one-way traffic only on the following streets:
      (1)   Mill Street from Main Street to Merrill Street, westbound traffic
only;
      (2)   Vehicular traffic on Main Street shall move only south between
State Road No. 67 and Garden Street;
      (3)   The alley beginning immediately north and east of the railroad
tracks on Main Street is designated as a one-way alley running from Main Street
to Staat Street.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of this schedule shall be fined in
an amount as determined by §
10.99.
(`87 Code, § 8-39) (Ord. 1963-, passed 3-12-63; Ord. 1969-7A, passed 7-8-69;
Am. Ord. 1994-5A, passed 5-10-94)
SCHEDULE III. NO EXIT ALLEYS.
   (A)   No motor vehicle traveling in a southerly direction may enter State
Road 67 from the alley located between Main Street and Oak Street.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be fined in
an amount determined by §
10.99.
(Ord. 1989-3A, passed 3-28-89)
SCHEDULE IV. PREFERENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   The streets set out in Column A are preferential through streets. The
streets set out in Column B shall come to a complete stop and yield the right-
of-way to vehicles traveling streets set out in Column A.
Column A Column B
Column A                 Column B
200 West                 900 North
200 West                 925 North
200 West                 Orchard Dr.
200 West                 Spencer Blvd.
Alden Dr.                Holiday Dr.
Alden Dr.                Laurel Dr.
Alden Dr.                Sunset Lane
Beacon Point Lane        Bluff Creek Dr.
Beacon Point Lane        Breakers Lane
Beacon Point Lane        Lighthouse Dr.
Beyers St.               Duncan St.
Beyers St.               Sherman St.
Beyers St.               Spencer Blvd.
Beyers St.               Walker St.
Blackburn St.            Crossley St.
Bluff Creek Dr.          Flatrock Blvd.
Breakers Lane            Bluff Creek Dr.
Broadway St.             300 West
Broadway St.             Elm St.
Broadway St.             Emerson Dr.
Broadway St.             Flint Blvd.
Broadway St.             Garden St.
Broadway St.             Garden St./96 St.
Broadway St.             High St.
Broadway St.             Industrial Dr.</v
Broadway St.             Madison St.
Broadway St.             Main St.
Broadway St.             McCarty St.
Broadway St.             Merrill St.
Broadway St.             Motel Dr.
Broadway St.             Oak St.
Broadway St.             Ohio St.
Broadway St.             Poplar St.
Broadway St.             Walnut St.
Brooks Dr.               Berkley Dr.
Carolina St.             School St.
Center St.               Monroe St.
Center St.               Vera Ct.
Crystal Dr.              Halite Trail
Crystal Dr.              Obsidian St.
Crystal Dr.              Quartz Lane
Church St.               School St./Veterans Ct.
Commerce Parkway         Business Park Dr.
Delaware St.             Center St.
Delaware St.             Peony St.
Delaware St.             Tulip St.
Duncan St.               Crossley St.
Emerson Dr.              Linda Dr.
Emerson Dr.              Motel Dr.
Flint Blvd.              Pebble Dr.
Garden St.               300 West
Garden St.               Flatrock Blvd.
Garden St./96 St.        Garden St.
Garden St.               Main St.
Garden St.               Merrill St.
Garden St.               Oak St.
Garden St.               Peach Blossom Dr.
Garden St.               Poplar St.
Garden St.               Staat St.
Garden St.               Swan Dr.
Granite Dr.              Crystal Dr.
Holiday Dr.              Bradley Dr.
Industrial Dr.           Commerce Parkway
Jade Way East            Jade Dr.
Jade Way West            Jade Dr.
Leland St.               Carolina St.
Leland St.               Church St.
Leland St.               Illinois St.
Leland St.               Monroe St.
Leland St.               Ohio St.
Leland St.               Virginia St.
Limestone Way            Crystal Dr.
Limestone Way            Pebble Dr.
Limestone Way            Quartz Lane
Madison St.              Alden Dr.
Madison St.              Brooks Dr.
Madison St.              Delaware
Madison St.              Hamilton St.
Madison St.              Illinois St.
Madison St.              Michigan St.
Madison St.              Mill St.
Madison St.              Monroe St.
Madison St.              Pearl St.
Madison St.              Staat St.
Madison St.              Vera Ct.
Main St.                 Church St.
Main St.                 High St.
Main St.                 Mill St.
Main St.                 Noel Ave.
Main St.                 Ohio St.
Main St.                 Park St.
Main St.                 Pearl St.
Main St.                 Staat St.
Maple St.                Garden St.
Maple St.                High St.
Maple St.                Main (Pearl) St.
Maple St.                Park St.
Maple St.                Saundra Dr.
Maple St./Fortville Pike 200 West
Maple St./Fortville Pike 950 North
Maple St./Fortville Pike 850 North
Maple St./Fortville Pike Beyers St.
Marble Way               Limestone Way
Marble Way               Shale Dr.
McCarty St.              Mill St.
Merrill St.              High St.
Merrill St.              Marie Lane
Merrill St.              Mill St.
Michigan St.             Center St.
Michigan St.             Leland St.
Michigan St.             Main St.
Michigan St.             School St.
Mill St.                 Ash St.
Mill St.                 Elm St.
Mill St.                 Noel Ave.
Mill St.                 Oak St.
Mill St                  Poplar St.
Mill St.                 Walnut St.
New York St.             Mendora St.
New York St.             Tulip St.
Oak St.                  High St.
Oak St.                  Park St.
Ohio St.                 Business Park Dr.
Ohio St.                 Church St.
Ohio St.                 Emerson Dr.
Ohio St.                 Jade Way East
Ohio St.                 Jade Way West
Ohio St.                 Noel Lane
Ohio St.                 School St.
Ohio St.                 Wyndstone Way
Peach Blossom Dr.        Cherry Blossom Lane
Pearl St.                Ash St.
Pearl St.                Elm St.
Pearl St.                Noel Ave.
Pearl St.                Poplar St.
Pearl St.                Walnut St.
Pebble Dr.               Boulder Lane
Pebble Dr.               Shale Dr.
Peony St.                Virginia St.
Poplar St.               High St.
Poplar St.               Park St.
S.R. 234                 300 West
Saundra Dr.              Peach Blossom Dr.
Spencer Blvd.            Blackburn St.
Spencer Blvd.            Morrison St.
Staat St.                Leland St.
Staat St.                McCarty St.
Staat St.                Noel Ave.
Staat St.                School St./Veterans Ct.
Staat St.                Thomas Point Dr.
Swan Dr.                 Bridge Ct.
Swan Dr.                 Garden Ct.
Swan Dr.                 Saundra Dr.
Swan Dr.                 Swan Ct.
Thomas Point Dr.         Park Creek Lane (North)
Thomas Point Dr.         Park Creek Lane (South)
Walnut St.               High St.
Wyndstone Way            Boulder Lane
Wyndstone Way            Granite Dr.
Wyndstone Way            Jade Dr.
Wyndstone Way            Limestone Way
 
   (B)   All vehicles entering the intersections of the following streets shall
come to a complete stop and yield the right-of-way to any motor vehicle already
in the intersection:
INTERSECTION
INTERSECTION
Berkley Dr. and Alden Dr.
Brooks Dr. and Holiday Dr.
Church St. and McCarty St.
Delaware St. and Leland St.
Flint Blvd. and Shale Dr.
Hamilton St. and Center St.
Hamilton St. and Leland St.
Illinois St. and Center St.
Laurel Ln. and Brooks Dr.
Main St. and Carolina St.
Main St. and Delaware St.
Main St. and Staat St.
Merrill St. and Church St.
Merrill St. and Michigan St.
New York St. and Leland St.
Ohio St. and Merrill St.
Ohio St. and Staat St.
Pearl St. and Oak St.
Staat St. and Merrill St.
Sunset Ln., Brooks Dr., Holiday Dr.
Thomas Point Dr. and Beacon Point Ln.
Wyndstone Way and Crystal Dr.
S.R. 234 and 200 West
 
   (C)   All non-paved streets of 15 feet width or less are designated as
alleys. All vehicles traveling on an alley shall come to a complete stop and
yield the right-of-way to vehicles traveling any street.
   (D)   All paved streets of 15 feet width or less are designated as minor
streets. All vehicles traveling on a minor street shall come to a complete stop
and yield the right-of-way to vehicles traveling any street.
   (E)   Any person found in violation of this section shall be fined in an
amount determined by §
10.99.
(Ord. 2000-4A, passed 4-25-00; Am. Ord. 2002-6B, passed 6-11-02; Am. Ord. 2011-
6B, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2012-11A, passed 11-19-12; Am. Ord. 2020-3A, passed
3-16-20; Am. Ord. 2020-12A, passed 12-21-20)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking regulations
      
II.   Large vehicle parking regulations
      
III.   Two-hour parking limits
      
IV.   Parallel parking
      
V.   Parking prohibited during certain hours
SCHEDULE I. PARKING REGULATIONS.
   There shall be no parking in the parking areas located on the following
named streets in the Town of Fortville:
Street Intersection Parking Regulation
Street Intersection                   Parking Regulation
300 block West Staat Street           No parking 150 feet west and east of the
                                      curve on both sides of street.
Alden Drive (north side)              No parking.
Ash Street                            No parking on the west side from Mill
                                      Street to Pearl Street.
Beacon Point Lane                     No parking on the east side.
Berkley Drive (west side)             No parking.
Bluff Creek Drive                     No parking on the north side.
Bradley Drive                         No park on either side from Holiday Drive
                                      140 feet to the west.
Breakers Lane;                        No parking on the north side.
Brooks Drive (north side)             No parking.
                                      No parking 50 feet either direction from
Brooks Drive (south side)             the intersection of Laurel Lane and
                                      Brooks Drive.
Center Street                         No parking on the west side from Michigan
                                      Street to Delaware Street.
Church Street (south side)            No parking between McCarty Street and
                                      Main Street.
East Staat Street (north side)        No parking from Main Street to first
                                      alley east.
Flatrock Blvd                         No parking on the west side.
Holiday Drive (north and west sides)  No parking.
Laurel Drive (west side)              No parking
Leland Street                         No parking on the east side from Hamilton
                                      Street to Delaware Street.
Leland Street                         No parking on the west side 100 feet
                                      north of Hamilton Street.
Leland Street                         No parking on the west side 100 feet
                                      north of Hamilton Street.
Leland Street (east side)             No parking from Staat Street to Ohio
                                      Street.
Light House Drive                     No parking on the south side.
Main Street (west side)               No parking between SR 67 and Garden
                                      Street.
                                      No parking from 4:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m
Main Street                           from Pearl Street to Church Street, both
                                      sides.
Maple Street                          No parking between Main Street and SR 67.
Maple Street                          No parking from SR 67 to town limits.
McCarty Street                        No parking on the east side from SR 67 to
                                      Mill Street.
McCarty Street (west side)            No parking 25 feet South of Mill Street.
McCarty Street (west side)            No parking from SR 67 North to 300 South
                                      McCarty.
Merrill Street                        No parking either side from Ohio Street
                                      to Michigan Street.
Merrill Street (west side)            No parking from CSX Railroad to
                                      Stottlemyer Ditch.
Merrill Street                        No parking either side 50 feet south of
                                      SR 67.
Merrill Street                        No parking on west side from SR 67 to CSX
                                      Railroad.
Michigan Street                       No parking on the south side.
Mill Street                           No parking either side from Main Street
                                      to Oak Street.
Mill Street (north side)              No parking between Oak Street and Madison
                                      Street.
Mill Street at Madison Street         No parking 100 feet from the
                                      intersection.
Mill Street                           No parking from Merrill Street to Baker
                                      Street.
Ohio Street                           No parking on the north and south sides
                                      from Main Street to Merrill Street.
Ohio Street (south side)              No parking from Merrill Street to 300
                                      feet west of Merrill Street.
Ohio Street                           No parking west of Merrill Street to
                                      Fortville town limits.
Old Bridge Addition and Blossom Trace One side parking as designated by
Addition                              signage.
Park Street                           No parking on the south side from Walnut
                                      Street to Poplar Street.
Park Street                           No parking on the north side from Walnut
                                      Street to 45 feet west.
Pearl Street (south side)             No parking between Main Street and Noel
                                      Avenue.
Poplar Street and SR 67               No parking 50 feet from the intersection
                                      on the North and South sides of SR 67.
Poplar Street                         No parking from Garden Street North to 50
                                      feet north of the curve.
Sandy Point Lane                      No parking on the west side.
Staat Street (north side)             No parking west from Main Street to
                                      Jackson Ditch.
Sunset Lane (west side)               No parking.
Thomas Point Drive                    No parking on the north side.
Veteran's Court (west side)           No parking between Staat Street and
                                      Church Street.
Walnut Street                         No parking on the west side from Mill
                                      Street to SR 67.
                                      No parking on the west side from SR 67 to
Walnut Street                         Park Street.
                                       
Wyndstone subdivision                 No parking except for one side parking as
                                      designated by signage.
All streets in the Town of Fortville  No parking on the travel portion of the
with no curbs                         roadway.
All streets in the Town of Fortville  No parking on or across either the
with sidewalks                        sidewalk or the grassy area between
                                      street and sidewalk.
No parking of any non-motorized vehicles for more than 72 consecutive hours.
No parking of properly registered vehicles on town streets for two consecutive
weeks.
Parking prohibited on town streets of vehicles of five tons in weight and above
for not more than 24 hours in one location.
 
(Ord. 2000-9A, passed - -00; Am. Ord. 2002-12C, passed 1-14-03; Am. Ord. 2003-
7B, passed 7-29- 03; Am. Ord. 2008-11C, passed - -08; Am. Ord. 2016-7C, passed
8-1-16)
SCHEDULE II. LARGE VEHICLE PARKING REGULATIONS.
   No vehicle with an overall length of more than 25 feet shall park on either
side of Main Street between Pearl Street and Church Street, except for the
purpose of loading or unloading.
(`87 Code, § 8-6) (Ord. 1963-, passed 3-12-63)
SCHEDULE III. TWO-HOUR PARKING LIMITS.
   There shall be a two hour parking limit from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on all
days except Sunday and legal holidays at the locations on the following named
streets:
   (A)   Both sides of Main Street, between Church Street and Broadway Street,
excepting the parking area on the east side of Main Street, between Pearl
Street and Highway No. 67, and excepting the parking area in front of the
United States Post Office located on the west side of Main Street between Staat
Street and Church Street, and excepting the parking area on the east side of
Main Street between Staat Street and Church Street;
   (B)   The north side of Staat Street from Merrill Street to School Street,
except at such times and places as no parking is permitted under Schedule I.
(`87 Code, § 8-7) (Ord. 1963-, passed 3-12-63)
SCHEDULE IV. PARALLEL PARKING.
   All motor vehicles must be parked parallel to the curb and facing with the
flow of traffic on the side of the street upon which it is parked on all
streets in the town and must be parked within 12 inches of the curb. In areas
marked for diagonal parking, motor vehicles must be parked in such places
facing with the flow of traffic.
(Ord. 2000-9A, passed - -00; Am. Ord. 2002-12C, passed 1-14-03; Am. Ord. 2016-
7C, passed 8-1- 16)
SCHEDULE V. PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   (A)   There shall be no parking on any posted street on Thursdays from 3:00
a.m. to 6:00 a.m. and on Fridays from 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   There shall be no parking on Main Street from 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
on Fridays between Church Street and Pearl Street.
(`87 Code, § 8-14) (Ord. 1964-, passed 7-7-64; Ord. 1971-11A, passed 11-9-71)
CHAPTER 74: NON-TRADITIONAL VEHICLE REGULATIONS
Section
   
74.01   Application
   
74.02   Definitions
   
74.03   Specifications
   
74.04   Operation
   
74.05   Violations
§ 74.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to the operation of golf carts, UTVs and
snowmobiles on town roadways and within the corporate limits of the Town of
Fortville.
(Ord. 2017-6D, passed 7-3-17; Am. Ord. 2021-4A, passed 5-3-21)
§ 74.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. An electric or gas vehicle that was originally designed and
manufactured for operation on a golf course of sporting and recreational
purposes and is not capable of exceeding speeds of 34 mph.
   SNOWMOBILE. A motorized vehicle designed for winter travel and recreation on
snow. It is designed to be operated on snow and ice and does not require a road
or trail, but most are driven on open terrain or trails.
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE (UTV). A small four-wheel, off road vehicle
specifically intended for utility use which are intended to transport persons
and cargo, have a non-straddle seat, are designed to travel on four or more
wheels, with a minimum seat height of 24 inches above the ground, use a
steering wheel and pedals for controls, have a top speed of at least 25 mph. A
UTV shall not include a go-kart and the Chief of Police shall have discretion
to determine whether a vehicle constitutes a UTV under this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-6D, passed 7-3-17; Am. Ord. 2021-4A, passed 5-3-21)
§ 74.03 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts. All golf carts shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Golf carts shall be equipped with headlights, rear view mirror,
taillights, turn signals and braking system. Golf carts must include the
following:
         (a)   Reflective slow moving vehicle sign; and
         (b)   Rear flashing light. Between the hours of sunset and sunrise the
rear flashing light must be operational.
      (2)   All golf carts to be operated on town roadways must be registered
with the Fortville Police Department for compliance with this chapter. The
Chief of Police is authorized to develop, implement and enforce those policies,
procedures and forms necessary to assure compliance with this chapter of golf
carts and operators for use on town roadways. The Chief of Police is
specifically authorized to develop those policies and procedures necessary to
maximize the safety of persons and property and protect the interests of the
town. Inspections remain valid for two years. Golf carts that pass inspection
shall display a permit sticker on the right rear fender issued by the town. The
cost of inspection will be $25 for a two-year permit.
      (3)   Only golf carts described, equipped and insured as described in
this section, shall be allowed to operate with the town limits.
   (B)   Utility task vehicles (UTVs). All UTVs shall comply with the
following:
      (1)   UTVs shall be equipped with headlights, taillights, braking system
and seat belts.
      (2)   All UTVs to be operated on town roadways must be properly
registered pursuant to applicable state law.
      (3)   All UTVs to be operated on town roadways must be inspected by the
Fortville Police Department for compliance with this chapter. The Chief of
Police is authorized to develop, implement and enforce those policies,
procedures and forms necessary to assure compliance with this chapter for use
on town roadways. The Chief of Police is specifically authorized to develop
those policies and procedures necessary to maximize the safety of persons and
property and protect the interests of the town.
      (4)   Must be equipped with a muffler in good working order and in
constant operation to prevent excess or unusual noise and smoke.
   (C)   Snowmobiles. All snowmobiles shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Snowmobiles shall be equipped with headlights, taillights and
braking system.
      (2)   All snowmobiles to be operated on town roadways must be properly
registered pursuant to applicable state law.
(Ord. 2017-6D, passed 7-3-17; Am. Ord. 2021-4A, passed 5-3-21)
§ 74.04 OPERATION.
   (A)   Golf carts.
      (1)   Operators of golf carts within the corporate limits must be at
least 16 years of age, possess a valid driver’s license and be insured by
liability insurance in an amount not less than the minimum the state requires
for automobiles.
      (2)   Operators of golf carts within the corporate limits shall obey all
state traffic laws, yield the right of way to all pedestrians and bicycles and
are only permitted to operate upon roadways with a speed limit of 30 mph or
less. Crossing of roadways with speed limits in excess of 30 mph is permitted
only where normal vehicular traffic would cross.
      (3)   Golf carts are not permitted on any town owned or operated
sidewalk, trail, walking path or perimeter trial unless posted for golf cart
use. Golf carts are not to be used in any Town of Fortville Park, without prior
written permission from the Town Manager or Chief of Police. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, properly registered golf carts may be operated on town streets
and roads within the parks.
      (4)   This division (A) shall not apply to public or private golf
courses, construction sites, retail golf cart outlets or operation on private
property.
      (5)   Golf carts may not be operated on public roadways during the
inclement weather such as rain, fog or when there is an accumulation of ice or
snow on the ground. A golf cart may only accommodate as many passengers as
originally designed.
      (6)   Exception. Golf carts, UTVs or any type of vehicle operated, owned
or used by the Town of Fortville/government entities or employees of the town
for the use of official business are exempt from compliance of the inspection
and registration fees.
   (B)   Utility task vehicles (UTVs).
      (1)   Operators of UTVs within the corporate limits must be at least 18
years of age, possess a valid driver’s license and proof they are insured by
liability insurance in an amount not less than the minimum the state requires
for automobiles.
      (2)   Operators of UTVs within the corporate limits shall obey all state
traffic laws, yield the right of way to all pedestrians and bicycles and are
only permitted to operate upon roadways with a speed limit of 30 mph or less.
Operate at a rate of speed that is reasonable and proper for the existing
conditions. Crossing of roadways with speed limits in excess of 30 mph is
permitted only where normal vehicular traffic would cross.
      (3)   UTVs are not permitted on any town owned or operated sidewalk,
trail, walking path or perimeter trial unless posted for golf cart or UTV use.
UTVs are not to be used in any Town of Fortville Park, without prior written
permission from the Town Manager or Chief of Police. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, properly registered UTVs may be operated on town streets and roads
within the parks.
      (4)   This division (B) shall not apply to construction sites, retail UTV
outlets or operation on private property.
      (5)   UTVs may only accommodate as many passengers as originally
designed.
      (6)   UTVs may not operate within 100 feet of a dwelling between 12:00
midnight and 6:00 a.m., except on a person’s own property or property under a
person’s control or as an invited guest.
      (7)   UTVs may not operate on any private property without consent of
land owner or tenant.
      (8)   UTVs may not operate on or across a cemetery or burial ground.
      (9)   UTVs may not operate within 100 feet of a slide, ski or skating
area, except for the purpose of servicing the area.
      (10)   UTVs may not operate on a railroad track or railroad right-of-way,
except railroad personnel in performance with their duties.
      (11)   UTVs may not operate in or upon any flowing river, stream or
creek, except for the purpose of crossing by the shortest possible route.
   (C)   Snowmobiles.
      (1)   Operators of snowmobiles within the corporate limits must be at
least 18 years of age, possess a valid driver’s license and be insured by
liability insurance in an amount not less than the minimum the state requires
for automobiles.
      (2)   Operators of snowmobiles within the corporate limits shall obey all
state traffic laws, yield the right of way to all pedestrians and bicycles and
are only permitted to operate upon roadways with a speed limit of 20 mph or
less. Crossing of roadways with speed limits in excess of 20 mph is permitted
only where normal vehicular traffic would cross.
      (3)   Snowmobiles are only allowed on roadways within the corporate and
town limits for access to areas outside the town limits for recreational
riding. There is no recreational operation inside the town/corporate limits
unless on your own private property or property you have been given permission
to use by another property owner.
      (4)   Snowmobiles are not permitted on any town owned or operated
sidewalk, trail, walking path or perimeter trial unless posted for snowmobile
use. Snowmobiles are not to be used in any Town of Fortville Park.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, properly registered snowmobiles may be operated
on town streets and roads.
      (5)   This division (C) shall not apply to retail snowmobile outlets or
operation on private property.
      (6)   Snowmobiles may only accommodate as many passengers as originally
designed.
      (7)   Operators of snowmobiles must have a helmet, protective and safety
gear on at all times while in operation.
(Ord. 2017-6D, passed 7-3-17; Am. Ord. 2021-4A, passed 5-3-21)
§ 74.05 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts, snowmobiles, and UTVs shall be subject to the Town of
Fortville’s traffic and parking regulations as contained in this Code of
Ordinances, in addition to all rules and regulations of the State of Indiana as
contained within the statutes of said state.
   (B)   The following shall constitute a violation of this section, subject to
the penalties provided in §
11.02 - Penalty Schedule of this Code of Ordinances:
      (1)   Operation of a golf cart that is not registered with the town
pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Operation of a snowmobile or UTV that is not registered by Indiana
BMV or as otherwise required by Indiana law.
      (3)   Operation of a golf cart by a person younger than 16 years of age.
      (4)   Operation of a UTV or snowmobile by a person younger than 18 years
of age.
      (5)   Operation of a golf cart, UTV or snowmobile by a person without a
valid Indiana driver’s license or a valid driver’s license issued by another
state or recognized authority.
      (6)   Operation of a golf cart, UTV or snowmobile in a reckless manner.
      (7)   Operation of a golf cart, UTV or snowmobile without valid
insurance.
      (8)   Operation of a golf cart, UTV or snowmobile without all required
equipment, as provided by this chapter.
      (9)   Operation of a golf cart, UTV or snowmobile on Broadway Street
(S.R. 67) and Madison Street (S.R. 13) except when necessary to cross at an
intersection of a town street.
      (10)   Operation of a non-traditional vehicle on roads or public right-
of-way that have not been authorized for non-traditional vehicle operation.
(Ord. 2017-6D, passed 7-3-17; Am. Ord. 2021-4A, passed 5-3-21)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   TREES
      
96.   ADA COMPLIANCE
      
97.   ALARM SYSTEM REGULATIONS
      
98.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
90.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
90.10   Exemptions
   
90.11   Administrative enforcement
   
90.12   Severability
§ 90.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Town of Fortville to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1994-9A, passed 9-13-94; Am. Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04,
90.05,
90.06,
90.07, or
90.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in “familial status” in this section.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person's major life activities.
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment; or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
      (5)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or addictions to
a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does the term
HANDICAP include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
(910 IAC 2-3-2(14))
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 1994-9A, passed 9-15-94; Am. Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
90.10 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
90.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1994-9A, passed 9-15-94; Am. Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21)
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
90.03 and except as exempted by §§
90.03(B) and
90.10, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this division, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(3)(C)3.
      (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1994-9A, passed 9-15-94; Am. Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21)
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 1994-9A, passed 9-15-94; Am. Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 1994-9A, passed 9-15-94; Am. Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03,
90.04,
90.05, or
90.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1994-9A, passed 9-15-94; Am. Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 1994-9A, passed 9-15-94; Am. Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21)
§ 90.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21)
§ 90.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1994-9A, passed 9-15-94; Am. Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21)
§ 90.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Town Council President.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Town
Council President shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided
for under division (A) of this section to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Town Council President and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Town Council President, or her or his designee, shall provide
information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant
requesting such information.
(Ord. 1994-9A, passed 9-15-94; Am. Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21)
§ 90.12 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of the chapter
and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly situated
or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby,
(Ord. 2021-2A, passed 2-16-21)
   [The next page is Page 15.]
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   Authority to operate
   
91.02   Reserved
   
91.03   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
91.04   Speed limits
   
91.05   Park closing time
   
91.06   No camping
   
91.07   Domestic animals
   
91.08   Dangerous weapons
   
91.09   Shelter House and Community Center rental
§ 91.01 AUTHORITY TO OPERATE.
   The town may establish, aid, maintain and operate public parks, playgrounds
and recreation facilities and programs.
(`87 Code, § 5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Recreation facilities and programs, see I.C. 36-10-2-2
§ 91.02 RESERVED.
§ 91.03 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall consume or possess alcoholic beverages in a town park.
(`87 Code, § 5-12) (Ord. 1976-6D, passed 6-22-76; Am. Ord. 1993-1C, passed 2-9-
93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person driving a motor vehicle shall exceed the speed of 15 mph while
traveling on Church Street in the Fortville Town Park.
(`87 Code, § 5-13) (Ord. 1976-6D, passed 6-22-76) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 PARK CLOSING TIME.
   No person may enter a town park between 11:00 p.m. and sunrise without the
permission of the Fortville Park and Recreation Board or the Town Manager.
(Am. Ord. 1993-1C, passed 2-9-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 NO CAMPING.
   No person may camp in a town park without the permission of the Fortville
Park and Recreation Board or the Town Manager.
(Am. Ord. 1993-1C, passed 2-9-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   No person may permit a domestic animal in a town park unless the animal is
on a leash.
(Am. Ord. 1993-1C, passed 2-9-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   No person may use a weapon that is dangerous to others within a town park.
(Am. Ord. 1993-1C, passed 2-9-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 SHELTER HOUSE AND COMMUNITY CENTER RENTAL.
   (A)   The Town Council has acquired ownership of certain structures within
the town including a structure referred to as the Shelter House and an
additional structure referred to as the Community Center.
   (B)   The Town Council believes it is in the best interest of the health and
safety and welfare of the citizens of the town that public access and use of
said structures be made available for a fair and reasonable charge and under
terms and conditions to be established by ordinance.
   (C)   The Town Council adopts the Facilities Rental Application, attached as
Exhibit A to Ord. 2022-3E.1, incorporated herein by reference, as the official
application form to rent a municipally owned facility, including the terms and
conditions and rental rates included in the form.
(Ord. 2010-6B, passed 7-6-10; Am. Ord. 2018-7A, passed 8-6-18; Am. Ord. 2022-
3D, passed 4-4-22; Am. Ord. 2022-3D1, passed 4-18-22; Am. Ord. 2022-3E.1,
passed 4-18-22)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Burning regulations; open burning
   
92.02   Noise regulations
   
92.03   Cutting weeds and rank vegetation
   
92.04   Vehicle equipment violation
Litter
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Litter in public places
   
92.17   Placement of litter in receptacles
   
92.18   Depositing litter in gutters
   
92.19   Litter from a vehicle
   
92.20   Littering in parks
   
92.21   Handbills
   
92.22   Dropping litter from aircraft
   
92.23   Deposit of litter on occupied private property
   
92.24   Maintenance of litter-free premises
   
92.25   Vacant lots
   
92.26   Receptacles
   
92.27   Unsightly premises
   
92.28   Abatement
Abandoned Vehicles
   
92.35   Abandoned and/or junk vehicles exposed to the public
   
92.36   Citation, removal, disposal or abandoned vehicles
   
92.37   Vehicle abandoned on rental property
   
92.38   Exemptions
   
92.39   Cost charged to abandoned vehicle account
   
92.40   Disposition of proceeds of sale
   
92.41   Use of abandoned vehicle account
   
92.42   Charges for towing, storage or removing abandoned vehicles
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 BURNING REGULATIONS; OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Only dry, easily combustible material that burns cleanly may be burned
within the town limits and then only under the following conditions:
      (1)   All burning must occur between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m.;
      (2)   All burning, except for leaves, must be done in a container that is
capable of being closed;
      (3)   No burning may occur on paved streets or alleys;
      (4)   The burning of leaves that are not in a container must be
supervised continuously until the fire is completely out.
(`87 Code, § 6-27) (Ord. 1984-11A, passed 11-13-84)
   (B)   No person shall openly burn any material, except that wood products
may be burned under the following conditions:
      (1)   Only between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.;
      (2)   In a noncombustible container with enclosed sides, a bottom and a
mesh covering with openings no larger than ¼ inch square;
      (3)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished;
      (4)   If fires create an air pollution problem, a nuisance or a fire
hazard, they shall be extinguished;
      (5)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high wind or air stagnation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above, easily
combustible material that burns cleanly and wood products may be burned outside
the confines of a noncombustible container for the sole purpose of maintaining
a campfire and/or for cookout purposes on the specific conditions set forth
below:
      (1)   That the area within which the material is to be burned shall not
exceed 48 inches in diameter;
      (2)   That the material to be burned shall not exceed a height of 24
inches at any time;
      (3)   That said fires shall be attended at all times until completely
extinguished with no lingering smoke present;
      (4)   That no such burning shall be conducted during unfavorable
meteorological conditions, such as temperature inversions, high winds or air
stagnation;
      (5)   That such burning shall not be conducted after 11:00 p.m or prior
to 8:00 a.m.
(Am. Ord. 1993-1C, passed 2-9-93; Am. Ord. 2009-9B, passed 10-19-09) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.02 NOISE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Public nuisance declared.
      (1)   The making and creation of loud, unnecessary or unusual noises of
various kinds and by various kinds and by various means within the limits of
this town have so increased as to constitute a public nuisance.
      (2)   The making, creation or maintenance of such loud, unnecessary,
unnatural or unusual noises which are prolonged in their time, place and use,
affect and are a detriment to public health, comfort, convenience, safety,
welfare and prosperity of the residents of this town.
      (3)   The necessity in the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained and ordained is declared, as a matter of
legislative determination for this declaration of public policy, to be designed
to secure and promote the public health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare
and prosperity and the peace and quiet of the inhabitants and visitors in this
town.
(`87 Code, § 6-48)
   (B)   Noise prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to make,
continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual
noise or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the limits of the
town. (`87 Code, § 6-49)
(Ord. passed 4-4-61) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing a town to regulate noises, see I.C. 36-8-2-8
§ 92.03 CUTTING WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   No property owner may permit weeds or rank vegetation to grow to a
height greater than six inches.
   (B)   The Town Manager or his or her designated representative shall notify
any property owner in violation of division (A) of this section that he or she
has five days after receipt of the notice to comply. Notice may be served by
certified mail or the Town Marshal may personally serve the property owner or
post the notice at the entranceway to the structure or property.
   (C)   If the property owner fails to comply within five days after service,
the town may enter the property between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday, and cut and remove weeds and rank vegetation by contract
or with town employees and bill the property owner for the cost thereof,
including administrative costs.
   (D)   The bill shall be served on the property owner in the same manner as
the original notice and shall be paid by him or her to the Clerk-Treasurer
within ten days after service. Upon failure to make timely payment, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall certify to the Hancock County Auditor the amount of the bill
and, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-4, request that such amount be placed on the
tax duplicate of the affected property and be collected in the same manner as
delinquent taxes.
   (E)   If the Town Manager or his or her designated representative shall
serve a subsequent notice of violation, the property owner shall be deemed a
repeat offender and the property will be maintained by contract or with town
employees and bill the property owner for the cost thereof including
administrative fees.
   (F)   A property owner may appeal a notice of violation under division (A)
of this section within five days of receipt and may appeal the billing under
divisions (C) and (D) within ten days of receipt. All appeals shall be to the
Circuit, Superior or Superior II Courts of Hancock County.
   (G)   Weeds and rank vegetation include all plant life except:
      (1)   Trees;
      (2)   Bushes; and
      (3)   Flowers, vegetables, and ornamental grasses or plants that are
cultivated and separated from other plant life.
(Ord. 1992-5A, passed 5-12-92; Am. Ord. 2002-6C, passed 6-25-02)
§ 92.04 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT VIOLATION.
   It shall be a violation of this section to operate a vehicle with improper
muffler or no muffler.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
LITTER
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED AND/OR JUNK VEHICLES.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the property owner or person in control of the property without the consent
of the property owners or persons in control of the property for more than 48
hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission, or differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperative and left on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of the Town Marshal and/or Deputy Town Marshals enforcing a
statute or ordinance other than this chapter, if the vehicle once impounded is
not claimed or deemed by the owner or his or her agent within 15 days of its
removal; or
      (7)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance not known or hereafter invented, used or designed
for navigation or for flight in the air, and includes but is not limited to
helicopters and lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE.  A litter storage and collection receptacle
as required and authorized in this subchapter.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any newspaper or similar publication containing
substantial amounts of matter advertising articles or things for sale or any
businesses or services for profit which newspaper or similar publication is in
normal course distributed without charge and without subscription therefore by
the recipients, and includes, but is not limited to, any printed or written
matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, booklet,
paper or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original and copies of any
matter or literature which:
      (1)   Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or things;
      (2)   Directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment or activity for the purpose of either directly or indirectly
promoting the interest thereof by sales;
      (3)   Directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of profit; or
      (4)   While containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or circulated
for advertising purposes or for private benefit and gain for any person so
engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited in a manner prohibited by this subchapter, tends to create
a danger to public health, safety and welfare or significantly reduces the
aesthetic appearance of public or private property or the public right-of-way.
   LITTER RECEPTACLE. A dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can or similar
container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with the federal statute or regulation, any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law and
includes but is not limited to any newspaper, periodical or current magazine
regularly published and sold to the public by subscription.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the definitions of a commercial handbill.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, recreation center or any other public
area in the town owned or used by the town and devoted to recreation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building, multi-family structure or
other structure designed or used either wholly or in part for private
residential purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant, and includes but is not limited to any yard, grounds,
walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to
such dwelling, house building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned,
wrecked or junked vehicles or parts thereof and solid market and industrial
wastes.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly-maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, metal, wood, glass, crockery, bedding and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02; Am. Ord. 2008-2A, passed 3-17-08)
§ 92.16 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place including freshwater streams, lakes, and ponds within the
town except in public receptacles, or in authorized private receptacles for
refuse, recycling or yard waste collection or leaf service or other town
sponsored collection service.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried,
or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02)
§ 92.18 DEPOSITING LITTER IN GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the town the accumulation of litter from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway or any building or lot. Persons owning or occupying
property or places of business shall keep the sidewalk and parkway in front of
their premises free of litter.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 LITTER FROM A VEHICLE.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the town, or upon private
property.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 LITTERING IN PARKS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the town except
in public receptacles and in such manner that the litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon
any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not provided,
all litter shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for
its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided in this subchapter
or as prescribed by other sections of the town's codified ordinances.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Deposit of commercial handbills on public property. No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any
sidewalk, street or other public place within the town, nor shall any person
hand out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place, but
nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit any person from handing out
or distributing on any sidewalk, street, or other public place within the town,
without charge to the receiver thereof, any commercial handbill to any person
willing to accept it.
   (B)   Placing on vehicles. No person shall throw or deposit any commercial
or noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle, but it is not unlawful in any
public place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the
receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is
willing to accept it.
   (C)   Deposited on posted property. No person shall throw, deposit or
distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any private premises,
if requested in writing by anyone thereon not to do so, or if there is placed
on the premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof, a sign
bearing the words, “No Trespassing,” “No Peddlers or Agents,” “No
Advertisement,” or any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the
occupants of said premises do not desire to have their right of privacy
disturbed, or to have any handbill left upon such premises.
   (D)   Depositing handbill at inhabited premises; mail and newspapers. No
person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited unless the handbill is
so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent the handbill from being blown or
drifted about the premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and
except that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited by federal postal
law or regulations. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States nor of newspapers as defined by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 DROPPING LITTER FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the town
any litter, handbill or any other object.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 DEPOSIT OF LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property
within the town, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or
person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles or collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other
public place or upon any private property.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 MAINTENANCE OF LITTER-FREE PREMISES.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter; but this section shall not prohibit the
storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for collection, or within
any building when not in violation of any health, fire, building code or other
regulation, order, ordinance or statute.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02)
§ 92.25 VACANT LOTS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the town whether owned by such person or not. Vacant lots shall
be kept free of litter at all times by the person responsible for the property.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Business establishments. Every person owning, or managing, or having
charge, control or occupancy of any real property in the town, who maintains a
receptacle designated for their use, shall dispose of refuse in such a way that
said receptacle shall not overflow and the refuse so deposited shall not
circulate freely in the environment.
   (B)   Sanitary conditions. Every person owning, or managing, or having
charge, control or occupancy of any real property in the town who maintain
litter receptacles shall maintain such containers and receptacles in good
condition. No receptacle may have ragged or sharp edges or any other defect
liable to hamper or injure the person depositing or collecting the contents
thereof.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 UNSIGHTLY PREMISES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DILAPIDATED OR UNSAFE STRUCTURES. Any building or structure,
permanent or mobile, which by reason of age or condition, or any other reason,
is unsightly, unsafe, dangerous or detrimental such that it poses a substantial
risk to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the town.
      DERELICT VEHICLE/VESSEL/EQUIPMENT/MACHINERY. A derelict vehicle, vessel,
item of equipment or machinery refers to such items that is left on a property,
with or without lawful authority, and appears to be disused or abandoned by
reason of its age, appearance, mechanical condition, or, where required by law
to be licensed or registered, lacks the same.
      GARBAGE. Encompasses all terms such as trash, litter, rubbish, refuse
(organic or inorganic), debris and waste material.
      HEAVY TRASH. Any discarded matter which cannot be adequately placed or
wrapped in commercially manufactured plastic garbage or trash bags because of
its size or weight, and shall include but not necessarily limited to
appliances, water heaters, furniture, mattresses, box springs, tires, bricks,
concrete blocks, bicycles, lumber, furnace or air conditioning units, metal
duct or pipe, large tree limbs, dismantled, disabled or abandoned automobiles,
trailers, other vehicles, automotive, trailers, and other vehicle parts and all
other items which are either too large or too heavy to be securely wrapped in
bags as described above herein.
      JUNK. Old, unsightly, or deteriorated material of any kind, including but
not limited to, metals, cloth, paper, trash, garbage, glass, plastics, rubber,
tires, waste, or wrecked, dismantled, disabled, junked or abandoned motor
vehicles, trailers or other vehicles or any parts thereof.
      NOXIOUS OR UNSIGHTLY WEEDS. Noxious or unsightly weeds shall mean any
vegetation which, by reason of its nature, type, or failure to maintain, mow,
trim or cultivate to unreasonable heights; or is unsightly, dangerous or
detrimental such that it poses a substantial risk to the health, safety or
welfare of the citizens of said town.
      OWNER. Owner shall refer to the person holding title to a property
subject to this section as reflected on the last recorded deed maintained by
the Hancock County Recorder’s Office, and shall include a part owner, joint
owner. In the case of the absence or incapacity of the title holder, the
definition includes: an executor, trustee or guardian, an agent, mortgagee
having control or care of the land or building, and in the absence of proof of
ownership, the person assessed for the property is considered as the owner.
      PREMISES/PROPERTY. Includes any dwelling, house, building, multi-family
structure or other structure, whether inhabited or whether temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant, and includes but is not limited to, any
yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or
appurtenant to such dwelling, house building, or structure.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Includes owner, landlord, lessee, renter, and/or
occupant of premises.
      UNSIGHTLY. Includes partially demolished, decayed, deteriorated or in a
state of disrepair so as to be dangerous, unhealthy or substantially detract
from the appearance of the immediate neighborhood or adjoining properties.
Included in the definition is a broad list of conditions that could cause a
property to be determined unsightly, such as property containing:
         (a)   An excessive accumulation of ashes, junk, other rubbish or
refuse;
         (b)   The storage or accumulation of a derelict vehicle, vessel, or
item of equipment or machinery, or bodies or parts of such items;
         (c)   An excessive accumulation of wood shavings, paper, sawdust, dry
and inflammable grass or weeds or other combustible materials;
         (d)   An excessive accumulation of building material, unless the owner
or occupier of the parcel is:
            1.   In possession of a valid building permit in respect of the
materials or it is stored in a closed building or structure such that the
accumulation is not visible from another property or the road; or
            2.   Taking part in active construction/repairs, which shall be
subject to review by the town to ensure that the owner or occupier is
continuing the construction/repairs in a timely manner;
         (e)   The storage or accumulation of all or part of a vehicle, as
defined in the Motor Vehicle Act, which is not validly registered and licensed
in accordance with the Motor Vehicle Act or capable of movement under its own
power, unless stored in a closed building or structure such that the vehicle,
or any portion of the vehicle, is not visible from another property or the
road;
         (f)   An excessive accumulation of filth, discarded materials or
rubbish of any kind, whether or not for commercial purposes or as part of a
trade, including but not limited to dead animals, paper, glass, metal,
plastics, wire, ropes, machinery, tires, appliances, and any other scrap or
salvage; an excessive accumulation or deposit of discarded or fallen building
materials, including the surface, covering, or coating of a building or
structure, or the building or structure itself or part of it which is missing
all or a portion of its surface, covering, or coating materials;
         (g)   The use of any premises, other than a parcel properly zoned for
such use, for the storage, repair, cleaning, maintenance, or servicing of
mechanical equipment including bulldozers, graders, backhoes, or other similar
equipment;
         (h)   The presence of graffiti, whether in the form of pictures or
words, on real property or on the surface of a premises located on the real
property;
         (i)   An excessive accumulation of garbage not contained in a covered
receptacle;
         (j)   A property, a building or structure that is in a ruinous or
dilapidated condition;
         (k)   A property, a building or structure that the condition of which
seriously depreciates the value of land or buildings in the vicinity;
         (l)   Property, a building or structure that is in such a state of
non-repair as to be no longer suitable for human habitation or business
purposes or which poses a substantial risk to the health and safety of the
citizens of the town;
         (m)   Property, a building or structure that is an allurement to
children who may play there to their danger;
         (n)   Property, a building or structure that is unsightly in relation
to neighboring properties because the exterior finish of the building or
structure is not maintained (e.g., missing or severely decayed/damaged cladding
and/or veneer (brick, stone, siding);
         (o)   Property, a building or structure that is a fire hazard to
itself or to surrounding lands or buildings;
         (p)   Property, a building or structure that has been excavated
without installing a silt fence and a protective warning tape around the
excavation area or had fill placed on it in a manner that results in a hazard;
or
         (q)   Property, a building or structure that has for more than 14
calendar days had plywood or other boarding material secured to windows or
doors. Notwithstanding this definition, in order to protect a building against
unlawful entry or vandalism while it is vacant, an owner may secure the windows
and doors of the building by the use of boarding as follows:
            1.   Windows shall be framed by two-inch by four-inch boards
secured with plywood to the fame by using six, seven-inch lag bolts into king
studs in all corners and in the center of the vertical boards. The plywood must
be four-ply CDX sheeting or approved equivalent material, no less than one-half
inch in thickness and attached by tamper proof screws no less than three inches
in length. The screws must be type W for wood and type S for steel, and must be
applied to a maximum of eight inches on center.
            2.   Boarding of a vacant structure is to be considered a temporary
and not a long-term method of securing the building. Any boards applied to
secure doors and windows for more than 30 days must be surface coated with
exterior grade paint so as to reduce the blighting effect on the immediate
neighborhood.
            3.   After six months/ all plywood must be removed and replaced
with secure doors or glazed windows.
   (B)   Violation. Every responsible party, as defined herein, owning,
managing, having charge, having control or having occupancy of any real
property, premises, lot or building in the town shall not allow such property,
building or structure to accumulate junk, garbage, noxious or unsightly weeds;
heavy equipment, a derelict vehicle, vessel, equipment or machinery, or
otherwise permit such property to become dangerous, dilapidated or unsafe, or
permit such property to become visibly unsightly from the street or from the
adjoining premises.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this section, for any
responsible parties of any property, lot or parcel of real estate within the
town to maintain thereon a dangerous, dilapidated or unsafe structure as
defined herein.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this section, for any
responsible parties of any property, lot or parcel of real estate within the
town, to maintain junk, garbage, noxious or unsightly weeds, or heavy trash, as
defined herein, to be deposited on, grown on, or remain on any such lot or
parcel of real estate, or permit the existence of any condition on such
premises.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this section, for any
responsible parties of any property, lot or parcel of real estate within the
town to allow any part of such property, visible from the street or adjoining
premises to become unsightly.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this section, to deposit
and/or leave garbage (rubbish, refuse (organic or inorganic), debris or waste)
material in a location or condition where it is exposed to, scattered by, and/
or otherwise dispersed by the elements; also not located or stored in such a
manner where it creates a cloud of particles, unsightly conditions or health
hazards.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this section, to maintain
or leave a derelict vehicle, vessel, item of equipment or machinery on any
property, lot or parcel of real estate within the town, visible from the street
or adjoining premises.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, place, or deposit any
garbage or junk upon any premises not their own, unless given permission by the
responsible party. It shall however be the responsible party’s duty to ensure
the property, premises, lot, building or structure complies with this section.
      (7)   The responsible parties shall be jointly and severally liable for
any such violation(s).
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   General procedures. There shall be a minimum of a three step
procedure for the prosecution of violations of this chapter. Intermediate
steps, including additional notices of violation and extensions of time limits
for compliance may be used by the Town Manager at his/her sole and unlimited
discretion. However, the general procedure for all violations shall follow the
minimum steps set forth below. The minimum steps are as follows:
         (a)   Notice of violation. The Town Manager or her or his designee
(hereafter, "Town Manager") shall issue a notice of violation to the person(s)
committing, in whole or in part, a violation. The notice of violation is a
warning to the violator(s) that a violation has been observed and that it must
be corrected within a specified time frame from the date of the mailing.
         (b)   Notice of penalty for violation. The Town Manager shall issue a
notice of penalty for violation to the person(s) committing, in whole or in
part, a violation. The notice of penalty for violations is a citation that
states the penalty for the violation. The notice of penalty for violation shall
be mailed via certified mail, return receipt requested by the Town Manager. The
person(s) in violation will have a specified number of days from the date of
the mailing to pay all applicable penalty, and must correct the violation
within the time period specified by the Town Manager or face additional penalty
and/ or any other enforcement action authorized by this chapter.
         (c)   Legal action. If the person(s) in violation refuses to pay the
penalty, attorney's fees, court costs, and/ or correct the violation within the
time frame specified by the notice of penalty for violation, the Town Manager
may refer the violation to the town's attorney in order to pursue court action
through the Circuit of Superior Court of Hancock County. Additional penalty and
liens against the property may also be pursued until the matter is resolved.
      (2)   Monetary fines. Monetary fines may be imposed at the discretion of
the Town Manager by issuance of the notice of fines for violations as set forth
above.
         (a)   Multiple violations. Each day a violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
         (b)   Fine amount. Each separate offense shall be subject to a maximum
fine specified by the adopted fee schedule assessed on a per day basis from the
date of compliance requested by the Town Manager in the notice of violation.
            1.   In addition to any fine imposed, any person who initiates any
activity that requires an improvement location permit without first obtaining
such permit may be required to pay two times the normal amount of the permit
fee as an additional fine, consistent with the adopted fee schedule.
            2.   The amount of any fine shall be as determined by the Town
Manager.
         (c)   Payment. The payment of any violation shall be by cash or
cashier's check and shall be delivered to the Town Manager who shall forward
the funds to the Clerk-Treasurer for deposit in the appropriate fund.
            1.   The Town Manager shall issue a receipt to the person making
the payment.
            2.   The Town Manager may, at his/her discretion, waive the
assessed fine for the timely correction of the violation.
      (3)   Appeals. Any person receiving a notice of violation and/or fine(s)
for violation may appeal the violation and/or fine to the Circuit or Superior
Court of Hancock County. Such person desiring to appeal the violation shall
appear in person before the Town Clerk-Treasurer or submit a written statement
denying the ordinance violation and requesting an appeal hearing shall be
submitted to the Town Clerk-Treasurer at least three days prior to the date any
fine and/or compliance is due.
         (a)   Fines. No additional fines shall accrue from the date of the
appeal until the court has made a ruling as to the violation and/or fine.
         (b)   Additional notices. No additional notices will be issued by the
Town Manager if the person(s) in violation has (have) submitted an appeal.
      (4)   Legal remedies. The Town Manager via the town's attorney may bring
an action in the Circuit or Superior Court of Hancock County to invoke any
legal, equitable, or special remedy, for the enforcement of any town ordinance
or regulation.
         (a)   Injunction. The Town Manager may bring an action in the Circuit
or Superior Court of Hancock County to enjoin a person(s) from violating this
section.
         (b)   Abatement of violation. The Town Manager may also bring an
action in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county for a mandatory
injunction, directing the property owner to abate a violation of this section.
         (c)   Responsibility for prosecution expenses.
            1.   A defendant/respondent shall reimburse the town all expenses
associated with the prosecution of a violation of any provision of this
chapter, including but not limited to any fines, attorney's fees, photocopying
charges, mileage, hours, or portions thereof, devoted to said prosecution by
the Town Manager or any employee of the town and any other cost incurred
directly or indirectly by any employee or elected official of the town related
to said prosecution.
            2.   Documentation. Only those costs of enforcement that are
documented by the Town Manager, and that have a relationship to the enforcement
action shall be paid by the defendant/ respondent.
      (5)   Conflict with enforcement of county zoning ordinances. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to take the place of any Hancock County
Ordinances governing the enforcement of Hancock County Zoning Ordinances as
applied to and enforced in the town. This enforcement procedures set forth in
this section shall only apply to the enforcement of this §
92.27 of the Town Code.
   (D)   Demolition. Before the town can direct or authorize demolition of a
building or structure for violation of this section, the following must occur:
      (1)   The owner must be given not less than ten days’ notice of the time,
date and place of a meeting at which a demolition order shall be considered.
      (2)   The owner must be given an opportunity to appear and be heard
before any demolition order can be made.
      (3)   The town must make application to a court for a declaration that a
property is dangerous and/or unsightly, and for an order specifying that the
condition be remedied by demolition.
      (4)   Efforts to remedy the violation by lesser means shall have been
exhausted or otherwise established as ineffective to remedy the violation.
   (E)   Failure to abate.
      (1)   If a responsible party of any lot or parcel of real estate shall
fail and/or refuse to remove or abate such violation(s) after receiving notice
for compliance, as provided in division (C) above, the Town Council shall have
the authority to cause the same to be removed or otherwise abated.
      (2)   Where the Town Council does order a removal, the town by its
officers, employees, contractors, or agents may enter on the property and
effect the removal or clearance at the expense of the owner of record of the
property. The cost of the removal is due and payable immediately.
      (3)   When the town has effected the removal or abatement of the
violation, the Town Manager shall prepare a written and itemized statement
showing the actual cost of the work performed and the same shall be billed to
the property owner of record. The cost of the work shall include all
administrative costs, including but not limited to providing notice and
attorneys’ fees, incurred by the town in regards to such violation(s) and shall
be payable at the time of receiving statement of costs.
      (4)   When the full amount due is not paid by the owner within 30 days
after the receipt of the billing statement, the Town Manager shall cause to be
recorded in the County Recorder’s Office a sworn statement showing the cost and
expense incurred for the work, the date the work was done, and the location of
the property on which the work was done.
         (a)   The recordation of such sworn statement shall constitute a lien
and privilege on the property, and shall remain in full force and effect for
the amount due on principal and interest, plus costs of court, if any, for
collection, until final payment has been made.
         (b)   The costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by
law for the collection of real estate taxes and further shall be subject to a
delinquency penalty the same as real estate taxes in the event same is not paid
in full on or before the date the tax bill on which the charges appear becomes
delinquent.
         (c)   Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the provisions
hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been
complied with and that the work has been done properly and satisfactorily, and
shall be full notice to every person concerned of the property designated or
described in the statement and that the same is due and collectible as provided
by law.
         (d)   The Town Council may also pursue collection through any other
lawful means, including court proceedings, if it so desires, if the full amount
is not paid within 30 days.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02; Am. Ord. 2012-3B, passed 4-16-12; Am. Ord. 2017-
5B, passed 6-5-17)
§ 92.28 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Generally. All persons, firms, or corporations owning, leasing or
occupying buildings, grounds, or lots are hereby required to remove rubbish,
trash, weeds, or other accumulation of filth or debris which constitutes a
hazard to the public health, safety and welfare, from buildings, grounds, lots,
contiguous sidewalks, streets, and alleys.
   (B)   Procedure. Any person, whether as principle, manager, agent or
employee of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building, grounds or lots who
receive notice to abate from the Town Manager or his authorized representative
will have five working days from the receipt of the notice to abate to abate
litter as described in this section.
   (C)   Copy of resolution to be served or published. A copy of the notice to
abate adopted under this subchapter may be served personally or at the usual
place of residence of such owner, occupant or person in charge of such land or
by registered mail, or in lieu of such service, may be published for two
consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the town.
   (D)   Enforcement. In case of failure or refusal to comply with any such
notice of abatement, the work required thereby may be done at the expense of
the town and the amount of money expended therefore shall be a valid claim
against the owner, occupant or person in charge and a lien upon such land which
may be enforced by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction. Proceedings
under this division shall not relieve any party defendant from criminal
prosecution or punishment for violation of any other criminal law or ordinance
in force within the town.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 92.35 ABANDONED AND/OR JUNK VEHICLES EXPOSED TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   The keeping, parking or storing of any wrecked, junked or abandoned
vehicle or parts thereof, on private or public property, exposed to public
view, except as provided in this subchapter, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, park or store any wrecked
junked or abandoned automobile or other vehicle, or parts thereof on public or
private property within the town, not kept in a garage or other enclosure so as
not to be exposed to public view, except as otherwise set forth herein.
   (C)   Any vehicle shall be deemed to be included in the terms of this
subchapter if such vehicle does not have attached thereto a valid and current
license plate, but, such license plate shall not be in the sole factor in
determining the status of such vehicle.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this subsection shall be constructed to apply to
any person, firm or corporation lawfully engaged in the junk business, the
garage body shop or other vehicle repair business, auto sales business or other
lawful business in a properly zoned area, in which automobiles or other
vehicles are kept, stored or parked as an incident to the conducting of such
business.
   (E)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply.
      (1)   A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal processing,
automobile wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
      (2)   The Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   A regular member of the Town Marshal’s office of the Town of
Fortville, Hancock County, Indiana.
      (4)   The last known record title holder of a vehicle, according to the
records of the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles, or any other comparable bureau
or agency of any other state.
      (5)   Refers to all components of a vehicle that as assembled do not
constitute a complete vehicle.
      (6)   An individual, firm, corporation, association, fiduciary, or
governmental entity.
      (7)   All property other than public property.
      (8)   A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, sidewalk, park, or
other municipal property.
      (9)   A business that engages in moving, removing, storing and impounding
disabled vehicles.
      (10)   An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semitrailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle, camper or motorized bicycle.
      (11)   A vehicle which can be seen from public property and includes
vehicles which have been covered by a temporary covering that allows the form
and outline of the vehicle to remain visible from pubic property.
(Ord. 2008-2A, passed 3-17-08)
§ 92.36 CITATION, REMOVAL, DISPOSAL OR ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall abandon a vehicle or parts on any public or private
property.
   (B)   The owner of an abandoned vehicle or parts is responsible for the
abandonment and is liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal,
storage, and disposal of the vehicle or its parts.
   (C)   In accordance with I.C. 9-22-1-1, if, in the opinion of the Town
Marshal and/or Deputy Town Marshals, the market value of an abandoned vehicle
or parts is less than $750, according to the Official Kelley Blue Book, the
Town Marshal and/or Deputy Town Marshals shall attach thereto in a prominent
place a citation containing the following information.
      (1)   The date, time, Town Marshal and/or Deputy Town Marshal’s name,
public agency, address, and telephone number to contact for information.
      (2)   The vehicle or parts is considered abandoned.
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours.
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to
removal, storage, and disposal, and if not paid the owner’s registration
privileges will be suspended on that car.
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within
72 hours.
   (D)   If the tagged vehicle or parts, which, in the opinion of the Town
Marshal and/or Deputy Town Marshals, has a market value of less than $750,
according to the Official Kelley Blue Book, is not removed within 72 hours the
Town Marshal and/or Deputy Town Marshals shall, in accordance with I.C. 9-9-
1.1-5 and I.C. 9-22-1-13:
      (1)   Prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the website or parts
including information on the condition, missing parts, and other facts that
substantiate that the market value is less than $750, according to the Official
Kelley Blue Book.
      (2)   Take photographs to illustrate the condition of the vehicle or
parts.
      (3)   Immediately order the removal of the vehicle or parts to an
automobile scrapyard or holding area.
   (E)   In accordance with I.C. 9-22-1-14, if, in the opinion of the Town
Marshal and/or Deputy Town Marshals, the market value of an abandoned vehicle
or parts is $750 or more, according to the Official Kelley Blue Book, the Town
Marshal and/or Deputy Town Marshals shall make reasonable effort to ascertain
the owner or persons who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. Thereafter,
the office shall attach to the vehicle or parts in a prominent place a citation
containing the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, Town Marshal and/or Deputy Town Marshal’s name,
public agency, address, and telephone number to contact for information.
      (2)   The vehicle or parts is considered abandoned.
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours.
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to
removal, storage, and disposal, and if not paid the owner's registration
privileges will be suspended on that car.
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within
72 hours.
   (F)   If the tagged vehicle or parts, which in the opinion of the Town
Marshal and/or Deputy Town Marshals, has a market value of $750 or more,
according to the Official Kelley Blue Book, is not removed within the 72 hour
period, the Town Marshal and/or Deputy Town Marshals shall in accordance with
I.C. 9-22-1-14:
      (1)   Take photographs to illustration the condition of the vehicle or
parts and require the vehicle or parts to be moved to a storage area.
      (2)   Immediately order the removal of the vehicle or parts to a storage
area.
      (3)   In accordance with I.C. 9-22-1-19, within 72 hours after the
removal of an abandoned vehicle or parts to the storage area, the public agency
or the towing operator shall prepare and forward to the Indiana Bureau of Motor
Vehicles an abandoned vehicle report, including the make, model, if any,
identification number and number of the license plate (and engine number if
applicable), and request that the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles advise the
agency of the name and most recent mailing address of the owner and of any lien
holder.
      (4)   Upon receipt of the required information from the Indiana Bureau of
Motor Vehicles, the public agency or the towing operator shall mail notice to
the owner of any lien holder that the vehicle or parts have been impounded at a
certain location, that the vehicle or parts must be claimed within 15 days of
the date of the mailing notice, and that the vehicle or parts will be disposed
of after that time. The notice shall also advise the owner that all costs
incurred in removing and storing the vehicle or parts are the owners legal
responsibility, all in accordance with I.C. 9-22-l-20(3)(B),
      (5)   If the owner or lien holder appears to claim the vehicle before the
15 day time period, he shall be entitled to claim the impounded vehicle. The
costs of the towing, storing and keeping of the impounded vehicle must be paid
to the service holding the vehicle before the vehicle may be released. If the
owner or lien holder does not appear within 15 days after the mailing of
notice, the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall sell the vehicle or parts to
the highest bidder at a public sale conducted after notice under I.C. 5-3-1,
except only one newspaper insertion one week before the public sale is
required.
      (6)   If the vehicle is in such condition that the vehicle identification
numbers or other means of identification are not available to determine the
owner of record with the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles, the vehicle may be
disposed of without notice as permitted by I.C. 9-22-1-21.
      (7)   Upon complaint of a private property owner or persons in control of
the property upon which a vehicle has been left for more than 48 hours without
the consent of the owner or persons in control, the private property owner
shall follow the procedure set forth in this subchapter.
      (8)   Neither the owner, lessee, or occupant of the property from which
an abandoned vehicle is removed, unless they are the owner of the abandoned
and/or junk vehicle, nor any public agency, towing service, or automobile
scrapyard, is liable for any loss or damage to the vehicle or parts occurring
during its remove, storage, or disposition.
(Ord. 2008-2A, passed 3-17-08) Penalty, see §
92.99
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 9-22-1-20 repealed by P.L.191-2007, SEC.21.
§ 92.37 VEHICLE ABANDONED ON RENTAL PROPERTY.
   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on the person’s rental
property shall do the following:
   (A)   Attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following
information:
      (1)   The date, time, name, and address of the person who owns the rental
property and a telephone number to contact for information.
      (2)   That the vehicle is considered to be abandoned.
      (3)   That the vehicle will be removed after 72 hours.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be responsible for all
cost incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle.
      (5)   That person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
   (B)   Contact the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles to obtain the name and
address of the person who owns the vehicle.
   (C)   Deliver by certified mail, a copy of the information contained in the
notice required under division (A) above to the person who owns the vehicle.
   (D)   If after 72 hours the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on rental property has not remove the vehicle form the rental
property, the person who owns the rental property may have the vehicle towed
from the rental property. The person who owns the rental property shall give
the towing operator a copy of the certified letter required under division (C)
above as proof that notice of the towing has been given.
(Ord. 2008-2A, passed 3-17-08)
§ 92.38 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following vehicles:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately-owned raceways.
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment.
   (C)   A vehicle located on a designated vehicle sales lot or at a commercial
servicing facility.
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard.
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2008-2A, passed 3-17-08)
§ 92.39 COST CHARGED TO ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   The cost for removal and storage of an abandoned vehicle or parts not
claimed by owner or lien holder shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle
Account. The charge payable by the owner or lien holder for towing, storage, or
removing an abandoned vehicle or parts not exceed the limits established by
ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 2008-2A, passed 3-17-08)
§ 92.40 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   The proceeds of sale of an abandoned vehicle or parts in accordance with
this subchapter shall be credited against all cost incident to the removal,
storage, and disposal of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2008-2A, passed 3-17-08)
§ 92.41 USE OF ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   All cost incurred by the public agency in administering this subchapter
shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Account. The Fortville Town Council
shall annually appropriate sufficient monies to that account for the purpose of
this subchapter. All monies remaining in the account at the end of each year
remain in the account and do not revert to the general fund.
(Ord. 2008-2A, passed 3-17-08)
§ 92.42 CHARGES FOR TOWING, STORING OR REMOVING ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   The following charges are established as maximum charges for towing,
storing, or removing abandoned vehicles, and are payable by the owner or lien
holder.
   (A)   The charge for towing the abandoned vehicle or parts shall not exceed
$125.
   (B)   The charge for removing abandoned vehicles or parts shall not exceed
$125.
   (C)   The charge for storing abandoned vehicles or abandoned parts shall not
exceed $25 per day of storage.
(Ord. 2008-2A, passed 3-17-08)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter will be subject to
penalty as a violation of §
10.99.
   (B)   Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue after
the initial five working days to abate shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
92.35 through
92.42 shall, on conviction, be fined in any sum not less than $10 nor more than
$100. In addition, any person violating the provision would also be responsible
for any related court cost, reasonable attorney fees, and for the charges and
costs of towing, storing or removing the subject vehicles.
   (D)   In addition to the remedies provided in §
92.27, any person violating the provisions of §
92.27 shall be subject to a penalty of $100. In addition, there shall be an
additional penalty of $10 per day for each day of non-compliance after the
period for compliance has expired, up to a maximum fine of $2,500 payable to
the Town of Fortville, Clerk. Such penalty shall bear interest at 18% a.p.r.
from the due date.
(Ord. 2002-5A, passed 5-28-02; Am. Ord. 2008-2A, passed 3-17-08; Am. Ord. 2012-
3B, passed 4-16-12)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Licensing
   
93.03   Restraint
   
93.04   Animal care
   
93.05   Rabies control
Regulations
   
93.20   Certain domestic animals prohibited within incorporated limits
   
93.21   Noise
   
93.22   Odor
   
93.23   Animals within Agricultural Districts
Administration and Enforcement
   
93.35   Impoundment
   
93.36   Adoption rules and procedures
   
93.37   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The voluntary relinquishment of possession by the owner with
the intention of his or her ownership, but without vesting possession in any
other person. The failure to make adequate provisions of food, water and/or
shelter shall be prima facie evidence of abandonment.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person who has been appointed as such by the
City of Greenfield.
   ANIMAL SHELTER - ANIMAL POUND. Any facility operated by a humane society or
Greenfield city agency, or its authorized agents, or operated under contract or
agreement with the Greenfield Board of Public Works for the purpose of
impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner while not under the control of the
owner or other person by leash, cord, chain or other device of actual physical
restraint or under the control of the accompanying owner or other person who
has the ability to control the dog by voice command.
   BIRDS OF PREY. Members of the Accipitridae, Aquila, Haliaeetus,
Falconiformes, Accipiter and Butco family.
   DANGEROUS. Able or apt to harm.
   EXOTIC. Any animal not naturally found in the State of Indiana.
   IDENTIFIED COMPLAINT. A complaint in which the identity of the complainant
is known to the Animal Control Officer and whose identity will not be made
public but held confidential.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any facility wherein any person engages in the business
of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling
dogs or cats.
   NUISANCE. Any one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   A condition which arises by a dog, cat or other animal chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles or other moving vehicles on the streets or
sidewalks or any other public area of the city;
      (2)   A condition which arises by a dog, cat or other animal destroying,
defacing or damaging shrubbery, lawns or flowers which results in the general
nuisance of citizens in the neighborhood where such dog, cat or other animals
are harbored;
      (3)   A condition which arises by a dog barking consistently so as to
disturb the peace of the neighborhood;
      (4)   A condition which arises from the accumulation of animal excreta on
the property of the owner, public or any other citizen so as to cause an
obnoxious odor, create a situation which could draw or breed insects, attract
vermin or cause a health nuisance;
      (5)   Any dog on which the tax has not been paid on and after the
fifteenth day of June of each year.
   OFFICIAL WARNING. A written notice or warning based upon an identified
complaint and given to the owner of a dog, cat or other animal by the Animal
Control Officer.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog, cat or other animal
for a period of 48 hours or longer.
   PET SHOP. Any person, partnership, corporation or any other business entity
other than a licensed kennel, that buys or sells any species of animal.
   REPTILE. Any member of a large group of air-breathing scaly vertebrates,
including but not limited to snakes, alligators and turtles.
   RUNNING IN PACK. Three or more dogs, cats or other animals at large
together, which, by repeated or continual presence, constitute a physical
danger to a neighborhood, livestock, personal or real property.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has been known to have bitten or otherwise
physically molested or inflicted a personal injury upon a human being without
provocation, or placed a human being in fear without provocation; an animal who
promiscuously attacks otter animals; or any animal otherwise defined in the
Indiana Code.
   WARM-BLOODED ANIMAL. Any animal that maintains a constant body temperature;
all mammals, including dogs, cats and rabbits.
(Ord. 1997-7A, passed 7-15-97; Am. Ord. 2006-5B, passed 8-4-06)
§ 93.02 LICENSING.
   [Intentionally omitted.]
(Ord. 1997-7A, passed 7-15-97; Am. Ord. 2012-5B, passed 6-4-12)
§ 93.03 RESTRAINT.
   (A)   Animals at large. It shall be unlawful for an owner or person having
custody or control of an animal to allow such animal to repeatedly run at large
throughout the town so as to create a public nuisance.
   (B)   Enclosure of animal in heat. All owners or persons having custody or
control shall confine within a completely enclosed building or secure enclosure
with no means of escape any dog, cat or other animal when in heat or rutting.
However, an owner or person having custody or control of an animal in heat may
walk the animal provided that person is with the animal at all times and the
person controls the animal and prevents it from walking or running freely by
using a leash that is no more than eight feet long. A person who intentionally
or negligently allows an animal in heat to escape his or her control while
walking the animal violates this provision.
   (C)   Possession of a vicious animal. It is a violation of this chapter for
anyone to own, possess, harbor, maintain or have custody or control over a
vicious animal as defined in this chapter at any location within the Town of
Fortville, Indiana, other than the Animal Control Officer for purposes of
rabies control and/or for the protection of the general public.
   (D)   Annoyance or disturbance created by animal. It shall be unlawful for
any person to keep or harbor within the town an animal that creates a nuisance
or which by loud, frequent or habitual barking, howling or yelping causes
annoyance or disturbance to the area within which said barking, howling or
yelping may be heard.
   (E)   Enclosure of suspected rabid animal. All owners or person(s) having
custody of such animal shall confine within a completely enclosed building or
secure enclosure with no means of escape, or as otherwise directed by the
County Health Department, any warm-blooded animal which has bitten, scratched
or caused an abrasion of the skin of any human being, or any warm-blooded
animal that is known or suspected of being rabid, in accordance with I.C. 15-
17-5-11(2011) and 345 IAC 1-5.
   (F)   Trespassing of animal and controller. It shall be unlawful for any
owner or person then having custody or control of any dog, cat or other animal
to enter upon the private property of another person without consent.
   (G)   Damage or injury to person or property. It shall be unlawful for any
owner or person having custody or control of any dog, cat or other animal to
allow such dog, cat or other animal to scratch, bite or otherwise injure any
person or other animal or to cause any damage or injury to the personal or real
property of another person.
   (H)   Keeping dangerous reptiles and animals. It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep, maintain or have in his or her possession, or under his or her
control within the town, any such dangerous reptiles, exotic animals and birds
of prey. It shall be unlawful for any person to display or walk about with any
type of snake, birds of prey, dangerous reptiles and exotic animals in a public
place. This provision shall not apply to reptiles, exotic animals or birds of
prey which can be found and legally purchased in a local pet shop within the
State of Indiana.
(Ord. 1997-7A, passed 7-15-97; Am. Ord. 2012-5B, passed 6-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   Provision of care. No owner or person having custody of such animal
shall fail to provide his or her animal with sufficient and wholesome food and
water, protection from the weather and reasonable care, including veterinary
treatment, as may be necessary to prevent suffering. This division shall also
apply to animals kept at an animal shelter operated by Animal Control, Humane
Society or by anyone in the town.
   (B)   Non-commercial and commercial kennels. The existence of more than four
dogs and/or cats at a residence shall constitute a non-commercial kennel
requiring the owner or person possessing said animals to obtain a non-
commercial kennel license from the Animal Control Officer. It shall be unlawful
for any person to keep or maintain a commercial kennel at a residence or in a
residential area. Commercial kennels as defined under §
93.01 are permitted in commercial or industrial districts per the Zoning Code
governing the Town of Fortville, Indiana. The user fee for a commercial and
non-commercial kennel is hereby established in the amount of $100. Both
commercial and non-commercial kennels must comply with Federal Register 9 CFR
Part 2 February 15, 1991, Animal Welfare.
   (C) Ill treatment. No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment,
overload, overwork or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate or permit
a dogfight, cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals or between
animals and humans.
   (D)   Abandonment. It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having
custody of any dog, cat or other animal to abandon the same within the town.
   (E)   Public disposal of poison liable to be possibly consumed by animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any poisonous substance
in any area of the roads, parks, common yards or other places, whether public
or private, within the town so that the same may possibly be consumed by any
animal.
   (F)   Removal of dead animals. Any person who shall become apprized of the
death of any dog, cat or other animal owned by him or her or under his or her
control shall, immediately thereafter, cause the dog, cat or animal to be
either properly buried (the entire body of the animal is at least two feet
below the natural surface of the ground with every part of the animal’s body
covered by at least two feet of earth or other substance that may be used as
cover) on the owner’s premises within 24 hours of knowledge of the animal’s
death or shall call the animal shelter to remove the animal from the town.
Should the animal be removed by the animal shelter and/or Animal Control
Officer, the charge for the removal shall be $2 for a cat, $5 for a dog and $5
for any other animal.
   (G)   Removal of animal waste. All animal waste on public property or the
private property of others shall be immediately removed by the owner of the
animal.
(Ord. 1997-7A, passed 7-15-97; Am. Ord. 2012-5B, passed 6-4-12)
§ 93.05 RABIES CONTROL.
   All actions taken in connection with all animals suspected of suffering from
rabies shall be in accordance with I.C. 15-17-6 (2011) and 345 IAC 1-5 (2011)
and all acts amendatory or supplemental thereto.
(Ord. 1997-7A, passed 7-15-97; Am. Ord. 2012-5B, passed 6-4-12)
REGULATIONS
§ 93.20 CERTAIN DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED WITHIN INCORPORATED LIMITS.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be illegal to own, board, keep or maintain one or
more of the following animals within the legal boundaries of the town and
further declares anyone violating this section shall be cited as maintaining a
nuisance within said boundaries:
      (1)   Cattle, including cows, bulls, steers, and calves;
      (2)   Horses, including mares, stallions, geldings, and ponies;
      (3)   Mules;
      (4)   Donkeys or burros;
      (5)   Sheep or lambs;
      (6)   Goats;
      (7)   Rabbits for the purpose of commercial sale for their meat or pelts;
      (8)   Swine, including pigs, hogs, boars, sows, or piglets;
      (9)   Poultry, including but not limited to chickens, turkeys, ducks,
geese, guinea fowl, peafowl, pigeons and pheasants;
      (10)   Exotic animal, being defined as a wild animal that is non-native
to the state;
      (11)   Wild animals, being defined as one that lives in the wild or is
not domesticated;
      (12)   An intended accumulation of bees;
      (13)   Birds of prey, including but not limited to, members of the
Accipitridae, Aquila, Haliaeetus, Falconiformes, Accipiter and Butco family,
unless the same can be found and legally purchased at a local pet shop within
the State of Indiana;
      (14)   Reptiles, including but not limited to, snakes, alligators and
turtles, or any other member of a large group of air-breathing, scaly
vertebrates, unless the same can be found and legally purchased at a local pet
shop within the State of Indiana; and
      (15)   Any other animal kept, owned, maintained, or raised for the
commercial purpose of selling it for meat, pelts, or other product.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Procedure for issuance. Exceptions to these provisions may be
issued by the Town Council.
         (a)   Persons wishing such expectations must submit to the Town
Council a written application setting forth the reason such exception should be
issued.
         (b)   The Town Council shall consider the request at its next
regularly-scheduled public meeting, but not less than 30 days after request has
been made.
         (c)   The party making the request for the exception shall provide
written notice of the request at least five days before the public meeting at
which the Town Council will consider the request to all property owners within
100 feet of the property for which the exception is being requested. The notice
shall be by certified mail or personal service and include a description of the
exception requested and the date of the Town Council meeting at which the
request will be considered. The person making the request shall provide
verification of this notice to the Town council at the hearing on the request
for exception. The Town Council may either postpone the consideration of the
request or deny it for failure to provide verification of notice in accordance
with this division (B).
         (d)   The Town Council, by majority vote, may grant or deny an
exception to any of the prohibitions against owning, boarding, keeping or
maintaining an animal as otherwise prescribed herein. The Town Council shall
issue a written finding of its decision stating that the request is denied or
approved and include any limitations or conditions imposed by the Council.
         (e)   The Town Council shall consider the following factors in
determining whether or not an exception should be issued:
            1.   The size of the applicant’s lot;
            2.   The nature of the neighborhood and surrounding zoning;
            3.   The physical conditions and standard of care given the animals
by the applicant;
            4.   The wishes and concerns of those owning property or living in
the general vicinity of the applicant;
            5.   The length of time such exception would be applicable;
            6.   Whether the exception is mandated, necessary, or reasonable
for medical, health, or religious reasons; and
            7.   Any other factor deemed relevant by the Town Council.
         (f)   If the Town Council denies the request, the Town Council shall
not consider the request again sooner than 12 months after the date of the
denial unless the person making the request can demonstrate a significant and
substantial change in circumstances which would warrant reconsideration of the
request within the 12-month period.
(`87 Code, § 6-1) (Ord. 1984-4A, passed 4-10-84; Am. Ord. 2008-8B, passed 10-
20-08; Am. Ord. 2012-5B, passed 6-4-12)
§ 93.21 NOISE.
   No person may keep an animal which makes noise with sufficient loudness and
frequency so as to be a nuisance to other persons.
(`87 Code, § 6-2) (Ord. 1984-4A, passed 4-10-84)
§ 93.22 ODOR.
   No person may keep an animal on property where the sanitary conditions
result in order or appearance that is so offensive as to be a nuisance to other
persons.
(`87 Code, § 6-3) (Ord. 1984-4A, passed 4-10-84)
§ 93.23 ANIMALS WITHIN AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of the Town Council to clarify those
ordinances of the Town of Fortville which are or appear to be inconsistent with
respect to the permitted use of agricultural land for the keeping and raising
of livestock. It is the further intent of the Town Council that no ordinance of
the Town of Fortville prohibit the keeping and raising of livestock, including
without limitation, horses and cattle, on any land within the town limits of
the Town of Fortville zoned or otherwise legally used for agricultural
purposes. (`87 Code, § 6-15)
   (B)   Horse regulations. Persons shall be permitted to keep, raise, ride or
otherwise use horses upon any land within the town limits now or hereafter
zoned Agricultural District (A) under the permanent zoning ordinance and Master
Plan of this town. (`87 Code, § 6-16)
   (C)   Livestock regulations. No ordinance of the Town of Fortville shall
prohibit or be construed to prohibit the keeping and raising of livestock upon
any land within the town limits now or hereafter zoned Agricultural District
(A) under the permanent zoning ordinance and Master Plan of this town. (`87
Code, § 6-17)
(Ord. 1979-2D, passed 2-27-79)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 93.35 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Establishment of pound or shelter. The City of Greenfield has arranged
for use of an animal pound or shelter, as provided in Indiana law.
   (B)   Cause for impoundment. Upon notification by the Town Manager,
Fortville Police Department, or otherwise, the Animal Control Officer shall
apprehend and impound in such animal shelter any dog, cat or any other animal
found doing any of the following acts or being kept or maintained in any of the
following conditions, unless provided herein:
      (1)   Running at large, not conforming to §
93.03(A);
      (2)   Not confined, as provided in §
93.03(B), (C) and (D);
      (3)   Kept in violation of §
93.03(A) and §
93.04(B);
      (4)   Abandoned, as provided in §
93.04(D);
      (5)   Entering private property causing injury to person or property in
violation of §
93.03(F) and (G);
      (6)   Upon all identified, valid, written complaints, which specify the
alleged violation of this chapter and made to the Animal Control Officer;
      (7)   Upon order of the court following a conviction of any person for
violating any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Official warning in lieu of impoundment. The provisions of the above,
notwithstanding, in lieu of impounding any animal under division (B) above, the
Animal Control Officer shall, whenever possible and under such circumstances as
may warrant the same, first issue an official warning to the owner or person
having custody of the dog, cat or other animal, and provide the owner with
reasonable time and opportunity to remedy the violation.
   (D)   Notification of impoundment. Notification of the impoundment shall be
made upon the owner or person having custody of such animal under the policies
and procedures of the impounding agency.
   (E)   Notification and redemption of impounded animal. Whether any animal
that has been impounded may not be redeemed or reclaimed is within the
discretion of the Animal Control Officer.
   (F)   Fees for redemption of impounded animal. An owner or person having
custody of an impounded dog, cat or other animal who has been notified that
such dog, cat or other animal may be reclaimed or redeemed, may reclaim or
redeem the same upon payment of the following fees and upon fulfillment of the
following obligations:
      (1)   Any fees assessed by the impounding agency; and
      (2)   Any fees assessed for violations of the town ordinances.
   (G)   Policies and procedures of impounding agency to be followed.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no dog or cat or animal
which has been impounded shall be released, except as set forth under the
policies and procedures of the impounding agency.
   (H)   Failure to reclaim or redeem impounded animal. It shall be unlawful
for an owner or person having custody of an impounded dog, cat or other animal
who has been notified that such dog, cat or other animal may be reclaimed or
redeemed to fail to reclaim or redeem the same on or before the last day of
impoundment before the disposition of such dog, cat or other animal under
division (I) of this section.
   (I)   Impounded animal not registered, licensed, tagged or redeemed. All
dogs, cats or other animals impounded under this chapter and not registered,
licensed, tagged and redeemed shall be disposed of in a humane manner, as set
forth under the policies and procedures of the impounding agency.
   (J)   Extermination of vicious animals. Whenever the Animal Control
Department shall find any dog, cat or other animal running in packs, vicious or
in such condition as to be too dangerous to capture, then the Animal Control
Officer is authorized to dispose of the animal where it may be found.
   (K)   Prohibition of experimentation on impounded animals. No impounded
animal shall be sold or given to any person, procurer or agent for the purpose
of experimentation.
(Ord. 1997-7A, passed 7-15-97; Am. Ord. 2012-5B, passed 6-4-12)
§ 93.36 ADOPTION RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Adoption. Adoption restrictions are as follows:
      (1)   Animals to be adopted must meet state requirements for vaccination
and taxation;
      (2)   Animals that have not been neutered will not be adopted until
arrangements for neutering have been made;
      (3)   Persons adopting give assurance that the animal will be kept on
their property and not be allowed to run at large;
      (4)   No animal will be adopted to a person convicted of cruelty to an
animal or known to be a repeat offender of allowing an animal to run at large;
      (5)   No adoption by a minor will be allowed;
      (6)   Any person living in an apartment, mobile home or rental property
must get consent from the owner before adoption;
      (7)   If at any time the new owner becomes unable to care for the animal,
a new responsible owner must be found or the animal returned to the shelter;
      (8)   Injured or sick animals are not available for adoption;
      (9)   The person adopting acknowledges Animal Control personnel are not
veterinarians and therefore cannot guarantee the health of adopted animals;
      (10)   All fees are nonrefundable;
      (11)   Any animal that is known to have bitten an individual will not be
available for adoption; and
      (12)   Animal Control, the Town of Fortville and the City of Greenfield
are not responsible for the actions of animals adopted out of the shelter.
      (13)   If the application is accepted, placement can take place as soon
as fees and other required certification is completed. Animal Control reserves
the right of refusal on any adoption. The applicant has the right of appeal to
the Director of Animal Control within 24 hours of refusal.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Fees for adoption are set by the City of Greenfield.
      (2)   Fees set forth in subsection (1) shall be paid to any participating
veterinarian of the applicant’s choice. The animal will be released when proof
of receipt from a participating veterinarian has been shown.
(Ord. 1997-7A, passed 7-15-97)
§ 93.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement. The Animal Control Officer and authorized members of this
Department will have the full and unrestricted authority to enforce this
chapter.
   (B)   Interference with official. It shall be a violation of this chapter to
interfere with the Animal Control Officer or any Deputy Animal Control Officer
in the performance of his or her duties thereunder which shall be punishable in
accordance with division (G) of this section.
   (C)   Record of impound animals. The Animal Control Officer shall keep a
record of all dogs, cats or other animals impounded in the Animal Shelter,
which record shall show the date of impoundment, the reason thereof, name of
the person bringing the animal to the pound and the kind, sex, color, breed and
any identifying collars, tags, tattoos or marks of the animal impounded.
   (D)   Official warning and notice of code violation. Upon information
sufficient to establish a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the
Animal Control Officer or authorized deputy may issue to the person committing
such violation, or to the owner or person having custody or control of any
animal involved in such violation, either:
      (1)   An official warning stating the name of the person to whom the
warning is being issued, the nature of the violation, the date of the violation
and any other pertinent information concerning the violation. Such official
warning shall also state that it is only a warning and is neither a notice of
code violation nor a notice to appear to answer to any such violation; or
      (2)   A notice of code violation stating the name of the person to whom
the notice is being issued, the nature of the violation, the fine imposed for
such violation in accordance with division (E) of this section, the specific
section of this chapter which has been violated and any other information which
is pertinent to the violation and necessary for a thorough understanding of the
circumstances surrounding such violation. Such violation notice shall instruct
the person to whom the violation is being issued that he or she shall appear
before the Fortville Ordinance Violations Bureau to answer to such violation.
   (E)   Fines.   
      (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter within five
business days of the date of the notice of the chapter violation, such violator
shall pay a fine as follows:
Violation          Fine, as Provided by Ordinance
Section/Subsection First Offense, Second Offense, Subsequent Offenses
Violation          Fine, as Provided by Ordinance
Section/Subsection First Offense, Second Offense, Subsequent Offenses
                $25, $50, $100
93.03(A)
                $25, $50, $100
93.03(B)
                $100, $200, $400
93.03(C)
                $25, $50, $100
93.03(D)
                $25, $50, $100
93.03(E)
                $25, $50, $100
93.03(F)
                $25, $50, $100
93.03(G)
                $25, $50, $100
93.03(H)
                $25, $50, $100
93.04(A)
                $25, $50, $100
93.04(B)
                $25, $50, $100
93.04(C)
                   $25, $50, $100
93.04(D)
                $25, $50, $100
93.04(E)
                $25, $50, $100
93.05
                $25, $50, $100
93.20
                $25, $50, $100
93.21
                $25, $50, $100
93.22
                $25, $50, $100
93.35(G)
 
      (2)   The fines will be collected by the Town Clerk-Treasurer and
transferred to the General Fund.
   (F)   Failure to pay fines. If a violator fails to pay fines or appear at
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office within five business days of the date of notice of
code violation, such violation may be filed with Hancock Superior Court II, and
such violator may be summoned to appear before the court.
   (G)   Penalties. Any person found to be in violation of any provision of
this chapter, other than the licensing provision of §
93.02 or the sections listed in division (E) of this section shall be fined an
amount as determined by §
10.99. Each day a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate violation, unless
otherwise provided by Indiana law.
   (H)   Restitution. In addition to the fines set forth herein, any person who
violates the provisions of §
93.03(G) shall make full restitution for any damages or injury to persons or
property as a result of such violation, including, but not limited to, medical
expenses, the value of any real or personal property which has been destroyed
or the cost of returning any damage to real or personal property.
(Ord. 1997-7A, passed 7-15-97; Am. Ord. 2006-5B, passed 8-4-06; Am. Ord. 2012-
5B, passed 6-4-12)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Street renumbering
   
94.02   Utility and Street Construction Standards
   
94.03   Location of utility structures
Sidewalk Regulations
   
94.15   Construction standards
   
94.16   Highway Superintendent’s rule
   
94.17   Signs and obstructions
Digging Regulations Along Streets and Alleys
   
94.30   Permit required
   
94.31   Application and bond requirements
Standards for Streets, Curbs and Gutters in New Subdivisions
   
94.45   Standards for streets in new subdivisions
   
94.46   Standard specifications for streets
   
94.47   Preparation of subgrade for street pavements
   
94.48   Rigid (plain concrete) pavement construction
   
94.49   Flexible pavement construction
   
94.50   Additional regulations
Maintenance of Parkways
   
94.60   Definitions
   
94.61   Parkway maintenance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 STREET RENUMBERING.
   All of the streets in the Town of Fortville, Indiana, are renumbered and the
renumbering of the streets shall be as contained on a plot now located in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and the plot and instructions
thereon are incorporated and made a part of this chapter.
(`87 Code, § 7-22) (Ord. 1953-, passed 7-14-53)
§ 94.02 UTILITY AND STREET CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted the utility and street construction standards
in the form attached to Ordinance 2016-10A, which may be from time to time
amended by Town Council meeting in regular or special session. Any amendment to
the construction standards shall be in writing and adopted by vote of a
majority of the Town Council pursuant to written ordinance, which shall
thereafter be incorporated into the written utility and construction standards
following its adoption.
   (B)   The utility and street construction standards adopted pursuant to this
section shall be the exclusive statement of construction standards of the town
applying to the construction and changes made to and of streets and utilities.
   (C)   The utility and street construction standards apply to all persons or
firms involved in the construction and/or repair and/or modification of streets
and utilities under the jurisdiction of the town unless otherwise provided by
applicable law.
(Ord. 2001-12B, passed 12-20-01; Ord. 2016-10A, passed 11-7-16)
§ 94.03 LOCATION OF UTILITY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All new utility structures (e.g., utility poles, utility lines,
cellular towers, etc.) proposed to be placed in a public right of way, or in an
area along, under, upon, or across a street, highway, alley, or other public
property within the town's corporate boundaries (collectively, “right-of-way”)
shall first receive approval by the town.
   (B)   Applications for placement of proposed utility structure(s) in right-
of-way shall be submitted to the Town Manager no less than 30 days before the
proposed construction or installation of the utility structure(s).
   (C)   The Town Manager shall review and approve or deny the application
based on public safety, location of existing utility lines and structures, and
compliance with the town's comprehensive plan and other development and utility
standards adopted by the town. The Town Manager shall complete the review and
issue an approval or denial of the application within 30 days of receiving the
application.
   (D)   An applicant may appeal the denial of an application by notifying the
Town Council, in writing, within 15 days of the Town Manager's denial. The Town
Council shall notify the applicant of the date it will hear the appeal, which
shall be at the first Town Council meeting following the receipt of the notice
of appeal, if possible.
   (E)   The Town Manager may issue a stop work order and seek injunctive
relief for failure to comply with this section.
(Ord. 2016-11B, passed 11-21-16)
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
§ 94.15 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   Hereafter all sidewalks being newly constructed or replaced shall meet the
following standards:
   (A)   They shall be made of concrete that is not less than 4,000 pound test
strength;
   (B)   They shall not be less than four inches thick and not less than four
feet wide;
   (C)   The top of the sidewalk shall not be more than four inches higher than
the crown of the street;
   (D)   They shall be sloped, but not more than one-half inch, from property
to street;
   (E)   No step-downs are permitted.
(`87 Code, § 7-10) (Ord. 1977-11A, passed 11-8-77)
§ 94.16 HIGHWAY SUPERINTENDENT’S RULE.
   In special circumstances requiring special construction needs, the Highway
Superintendent may grant a variance for one or more of the requirements set out
in §
94.15.
(`87 Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 1977-11A, passed 11-8-77)
§ 94.17 SIGNS AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect
and operate signs and obstructions of any description on or along the sidewalks
and curbs in the Town of Fortville, Indiana, without first obtaining the
consent of the Town Council in regular session; exceptions are made of state,
county and municipal signs pertaining to traffic and parking markers.
(`87 Code, § 7-12) (Ord. 1-1936, passed 7-1-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
DIGGING REGULATIONS ALONG STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 94.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Driveway cut permits. No person shall construct a driveway connecting
to any road, street, or alley in the town without a permit from the Town
Manager. No permit for the construction of a driveway onto a street for
commercial or residential use, or the habitual use of any other than the owner
or occupant of the premises served, shall be issued except after the approval
of the plans by the Town Manager and the payment of $250 fee for the permit.
   (B)   Excavations in streets.
      (1)   Permit. Any person wishing to make any cut into the pavement or
into any other portion of any street, sidewalk, curb, right-of-way, or public
place, or to excavate therein, or to excavate beneath the surface for the
construction, alteration or repair of any driveway, sewer, sidewalk, or water
line or other buried facility, or for the installation of any such work, shall
obtain a permit from the Town Manager prior to beginning any such work.
      (2)   Indemnity. Any person performing any work described in this section
and pursuant to a permit from the Town, shall agree to indemnify the town and
any other party interested in such work or its performance against all claims,
demands, actions, judgments, losses and expenses which may arise from any
injuries to any person or damage to any property resulting from such work, or
from any conditions created by such work in the street or any public place.
      (3)   Deposit.
         (a)   Every applicant for a permit shall post a cash deposit of $200
or a bond in the amount of $2,000 with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, which cash or
bond will remain with the town until the completion and acceptance of the work
performed.
         (b)   In the event that a cut in a street runs lengthwise on such
street, the applicant wishing to proceed with such work shall be required to
post a bond on the basis of $20 per lineal foot; provided however that said
bond shall be in an amount of not less than $2,000.
      (4)   Restoration of surface. Said cash deposit shall be returned and/or
the bond cancelled only after the completion of the work and inspection and
approval by the Town Manager. Such approval shall be based on the requirement
that the public property disturbed be replaced in as good or better condition
that was its condition prior to the beginning of said work, and upon the
further requirement that the work shall be in conformance with the stated
conditions of the work permit. In the event that the public property has not
been restored to a condition as good or better than it had existed prior to the
beginning of the work, the town may keep sufficient of the cash deposit to
perform the necessary repairs or may call upon the bonding company to perform
such work.
      (5)   Public utilities. The following public utilities shall not be
required to post bond or other surety pursuant to this section, but such public
utilities shall notify the Town Manager prior to making any street or curb cut,
and shall meet all other requirements of this section.
(`87 Code, § 7-17) (Ord. 10-1930, passed 10-17-30; Am. Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-
21-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.31 APPLICATION AND BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   Before the Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall issue any such permit the
person, firm or corporation desiring to dig in and along any of the streets or
alleys of the Town of Fortville, Indiana, and for the purpose aforesaid shall
apply to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing for such permit stating specifically in
such application the nature of the work to be done, the location where the
digging is to be done and approximately the time that will be required to do
the work and shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer a bond with sufficient
security thereon for the proper repairing or adjust any damages done to the
street or alley occasioned by such digging, which bond shall be for the purpose
of covering the cost of repairing such street or alley in case the person, firm
or corporation securing such permit fails to do so.
(`87 Code, § 7-18) (Ord. 10-1930, passed 10-17-30)
STANDARDS FOR STREETS, CURBS AND GUTTERS IN NEW SUBDIVISIONS
§ 94.45 STANDARDS FOR STREETS IN NEW SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Where local streets are designed to serve two and one-half dwelling
units or less per acre of ground, the minimum width pavement, including curbs
and gutters, shall be 27 feet measured back to back of curbs. Parking is
permitted on one side only; add ten feet to permit parking on both sides.
   (B)   Where local streets are designed to serve for more than two and one-
half dwelling units per acre of ground, the minimum width of pavement,
including curbs and gutters, shall be 30 feet measured back to back of curbs.
Parking is permitted on one side only; add ten feet to permit parking on both
sides.
   (C)   Rolled curbs and gutters shall be required for all streets unless a
waiver is granted by the Town of Fortville.
   (D)   Sidewalks are required and will be constructed of plain concrete, four
inches thick, with four-foot minimum width and located as shown on typical
local street section, as depicted in Exhibit A to the ordinance set forth in
this section and made a part hereof, copies of which are kept on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   The width of street requirement as set out in this section may be
reduced upon the recommendation of the Street Superintendent and approval by
the Town Council.
(`87 Code, § 7-25) (Ord. 1978-8A, passed 8-8-78; Ord. 1979-4A, passed 4-10-79)
§ 94.46 STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR STREETS.
   Minimum requirements for street construction shall be in accordance with
Standard Specifications of the State Highway Commission of Indiana, 1974
Edition, or subsequent superseding editions, thereafter referred to as the
“Standard Specifications,” unless otherwise required by the article. Copies of
said “Standard Specifications” are on file in the office of the Utility
Superintendent.
(`87 Code, § 7-26) (Ord. 1979-4A, passed 4-10-79)
§ 94.47 PREPARATION OF SUBGRADE FOR STREET PAVEMENTS.
   (A)   After all earth work is substantially complete and all drains
installed, the subgrade shall be brought to the lies and grades shown on the
plans or as may be otherwise approved in accordance with these standards. Such
portions shall be known as subgrades.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, the upper six inches of all subgrade shall
be uniformly compacted to at least 95% standard density as determined by the
provisions of AASHO, T99, (American Association State Highway Offices),
“Compaction and Density of Soils.” A six-inch subgrade fill next to concrete
shall be two-inch stone or its equal, then rolled with not less than a ten-ton
roller. During subgrade preparation and after its completion, adequate drainage
shall be provided at all times to prevent water from standing on the subgrade.
Subgrades shall be so constructed that it will have as nearly as possible
uniform density throughout. After compaction and final grading, the subgrade
shall be finished with a three-wheel roller weighing not less than ten tons. At
areas not accessible to the roller, the required compaction shall be obtained
with mechanical tamps and vibrators. All soft yielding or otherwise unsuitable
material which will not compact properly shall be removed. All rock encountered
shall either be removed or broken off to conform with the required cross
section. Any holes or depressions resulting from the removal of such unsuitable
material shall be filled with satisfactory material and compacted to conform
with the surrounding subgrade surface. No placement of pavement shall be
permitted on uninspected or unapproved subgrade and at no time when the
subgrade is frozen or muddy. No hauling shall be done nor equipment moved over
the subgrade when its condition is such that undue distortion results. If these
conditions are present, the subgrade shall be protected with adequate plant
runways, mats or other satisfactory means if hauling is done thereon. The
subgrade shall be prepared sufficiently in advance to permit proper inspection
so that the final elevation may be checked with a scratch template and
compaction checked. All utility excavations under the pavement shall be
backfilled with Grade “B” borrow, and construction shall conform to Section 211
of the “Standard Specifications” or compacted thoroughly by other means.
(`87 Code, § 7-27) (Ord. 1979-4A, passed 4-10-79; Ord. 1978-8A, passed 8-8-78)
§ 94.48 RIGID (PLAIN CONCRETE) PAVEMENT CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   At the time of placement of the concrete, the subgrade shall be
properly dampened just prior to the placement where it has become dry, where
the surface has been removed by final grading or for any other reason it has
not been removed by final grading or for any other reason it has not been
properly dampened. Plain cement pavement shall be in accordance with Section
501 of the “Standard Specifications” or any subsequent amendments thereto.
   (B)   Materials shall comply with requirements of the “Standard
Specifications.” Minimum cement content shall be 6.0 bags per cubic yards of
concrete mixture. No cement reduction below the minimum shall be allowed for
admixtures to increase workability or control setting time. Concrete pavement
is to be six inches in thickness. Concrete is to be mixed with air entrained
cement of at least 6% air. Center of street bulkheads is to be keywayed by 2-
inch x 4-inch keyway in center of form. Construction joints are to be doweled
by one inch bars 14” long every two feet. (At all bulkheads where pour ends and
starts again. Concrete shall be finished by machine or vibratory screed except
on widened portions, intersections or other places where hand-finishing will be
permitted.)
   (C)   Weakened plane or dummy, transverse, contraction joints shall be
placed not to exceed 20-foot spacing. Closer spacing to average 15 feet will be
encouraged. Transverse contraction joints may either be formed or sawed dummy
groove, ribbon or pro-molded strip type and shall be one-fourth the pavement
depth.
   (D)   When transverse joints are to be formed by sawing, care must be taken
to saw the grooves soon after placing the concrete to prevent the formation of
cracks due to contraction of the slab. All transverse joints shall be sawed
within eight hours after the placing of the concrete unless authorization is
given for sawing at a later time. One of the above-named joints shall be placed
at every catch basin and manhole in line of pavement. The location of manholes
and the like in the pavement shall determine the exact location of the joints.
All joints shall extend throughout curbs to full width of pavement.
   (E)   Transverse expansion joints shall be placed at Tee intersections and
wherever else shown on the plans.
   (F)   Whenever the width between forms of the pavement under construction is
greater than 13½ feet, longitudinal joints shall be constructed so as to divide
the pavement into strips not to exceed 13½ feeteach. This may be accomplished
by sawing or constructing a slot or groove as herein described for dummy
construction joints or by a deformed key plate installed prior to the
depositing of the concrete.
   (G)   Curing with white membrane curing compound AASHO Number type 2 - M -
14B will be properly applied to give complete coverage.
(`87 Code, § 7-28) (Ord. 1978-8A, passed 8-8-78; Ord. 1979-4A, passed 4-10-79)
§ 94.49 FLEXIBLE PAVEMENT CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Pavement shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of
Section 401 of the “Standard Specifications.” Pavement shall be full-depth hot
asphaltic concrete unless otherwise approved by the Town Council on the
recommendation of the Utility Superintendent.
   (B)   Where the Town Council allows collector streets or local streets to be
constructed with compacted aggregate base, the base shall be placed on the
prepared subgrade, compacted, primed and covered with binder before being
contaminated by construction traffic.
   (C)   Materials and construction procedures shall comply with the
requirements of Sections 303 and 403 of the “Standard Specifications.”
(`87 Code, § 7-29) (Ord. 1978-8A, passed 8-8-78)
§ 94.50 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Material shall comply with the requirements for Class A concrete of
the “Standard Specifications.”
   (B)   Slipforming will be permissible.
(`87 Code, § 7-30) (Ord. 1978-8A, passed 8-8-78)
MAINTENANCE OF PARKWAYS
§ 94.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKWAY. That area of land lying between the edge of the street, whether
paved or unpaved, and the edge of the sidewalk adjacent to a paralleling the
street. Where no sidewalk exists, the term shall mean and refer to that area of
land lying parallel along the edge of the street.
   PERSON. Any asphalt contractor, concrete contractor, general contractor,
landowner, individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, trustee,
beneficial owner of a land trust, nominee of a landowner or any other legal
entity.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person who has an ownership interest in real estate,
legal or equitable, partial or absolute, or as a landlord or tenant. Mortgagees
and other lien holders shall not be deemed landowners unless and until they
acquire ownership by deed or by operation of law.
(Ord. 2019-9A, passed 9-3-19)
§ 94.61 PARKWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The property owner whose property abuts a street or alley shall
maintain and care for any parkway which adjoins or is a part of his or her
property. The maintenance and care include, but not be limited to, the planting
and regular moving of grass, trimming of bushes and trees and the maintenance
of flower beds.
   (B)   Unless granted authority by the Town Manager or his or her designee,
property owners must maintain any parkway that adjoins their property in the
same state - e.g., grass, decorative stone - as existed in such parkway on the
effective date of this subchapter. Property owners may not alter the adjoining
parkway by paving, replacing sod with gravel, or otherwise, except as part of a
permitted driveway or driveway apron project or upon written permission granted
by the Town Manager or his or her designee. The Town Manager shall require such
paving to utilize the materials and specifications for paving as provided by
the town’s street and sidewalk standards.
(Ord. 2019-9A, passed 9-3-19)
CHAPTER 95: TREES
Section
   
95.01   Title
   
95.02   Purpose and intent
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Jurisdiction
   
95.05   Tree Program Supervisor
   
95.06   Appeals
   
95.07   Enforcement
   
95.08   Performance evaluation
   
95.09   Local government disclaims liability
   
95.10   Responsibility of property owners
   
95.11   Topping prohibited
   
95.12   Action on failure to abate
   
95.13   Procedural and labor charges
   
95.14   Resolution of conflicts between trees and structures
   
95.15   Public nuisances
   
95.16   Diseased or hazardous trees and plants
   
95.17   Abatement of hazardous and public nuisances
   
95.18   Permit required for planting within town right-of-way
   
95.19   Harming public trees prohibited
   
95.20   Licensing of private tree care firms
   
95.21   Conservation of forest and woodland resources during development
   
95.22   Prohibited species list
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Town of Fortville Tree and Flora
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter establishes policies, regulations, and standards
necessary to ensure that the town will continue to realize the benefits
provided by its trees and plants.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are enacted to regulate the planting,
maintenance, protection and removal of trees and shrubs on public streets,
parks and other town-owned property. It shall also provide for the issuing of
permits for the planting, maintenance, protection and removal of trees and
shrubs in town-owned areas.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSULTING ARBORIST. An individual who is trained and certified by the
International Society of Arboriculture, in the art and science of planting,
caring for and maintaining individual trees and forests.
   FLORA. Any and all trees, shrubbery and other plants, which grow to a height
of greater than 12 inches, but excludes weeds.
   OWNER(S). Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   In fee simple of a parcel of real estate, including the life tenant
(s).
      (2)   As reflected by the most current records in the town assessor's
office.
      (3)   The purchaser(s) of such real estate under any contract for the
conditional sale thereof.
   PLANTS. All trees, shrubbery and other plants that grow to a height of
greater than 12 inches, but excludes weeds.
   SHRUBS. Any woody, perennial plant with multiple stems that grows to a
height of less than ten feet. This may include ornamental grasses.
   TOPPING. The indiscriminate cutting back of tree branches to stubs or
lateral branches that are not large enough to assume the terminal role. Other
names for topping include “heading,” “tipping,” “hat-racking,” and “rounding
over.”
   TREE. Any woody, perennial plant and includes those having a single stem or
multiple stems that grows to a height of over ten feet.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.04 JURISDICTION.
   The town shall have control of all trees, shrubs, and other plantings now or
hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way or easement, or other public
place within the town limits, and shall have the power to plant, maintain,
remove, and replace such trees, shrubs and other plantings.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.05 TREE PROGRAM SUPERVISOR.
   The Street and Utilities Superintendent shall be established as the Tree
Program Supervisor. The Tree Program Supervisor shall assist in the management
of the natural resources within the town by enforcement of the sections within
this chapter and evaluation of the overall tree management program.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.06 APPEALS.
   Any action of the Tree Program Supervisor and/or Park Superintendent may be
appealed to and heard by the Town Council. To be effective, an appeal must be
filed within ten days after the decision of the Tree Program Supervisor and/or
Park Superintendent. The appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the
President of the Town Council for placement on the Council's agenda. The appeal
shall clearly specify the reasons for which a hearing is requested. To be
effective, an appeal to the Town Council must be in writing, state the reasons
for the appeal, and must be filed with the Town Clerk within ten days after
notice of the decision of Tree Program Supervisor and/or Park Superintendent is
mailed to the applicant. The decision of the Town Council shall be final.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Tree Program Supervisor, under the auspices of the Town Council and the
Town Manager is hereby charged with the responsibility for the enforcement of
this chapter and may serve notice to any person in violation thereof or
institute legal proceedings as may be required, and the Town Legal Counsel is
hereby authorized to institute appropriate proceedings to that end.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.08 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION.
   The Tree Program Supervisor shall collect and maintain all records and data
necessary to objectively evaluate whether progress is being made toward the
stated goals of this chapter. An annual summary and, analysis of the
evaluation, and recommendations for action shall be prepared at the direction
of the Tree Program Supervisor and the consulting arborist and presented to the
Town Council. The Town Council shall consider the report and recommendations
and take all actions deemed necessary to accomplish the goals of this chapter.
These actions may include, but are not limited to, revision or amendment of
this chapter or the adoption of other resolutions or ordinances.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.09 LOCAL GOVERNMENT DISCLAIMS LIABILITY.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to impose any liability
upon the town, its officers or employees, nor to relieve the owner of any
private property from the duty to keep any tree, shrub or plant upon any street
tree area on his or her property or under his or her control in such condition
as to prevent it from constituting a hazard or an impediment to travel or
vision upon any street, park, pleasure ground, boulevard, alley or public place
within the town.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.10 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of every person owning or occupying
any real property within the town to keep all trees and plants on that property
trimmed in such a manner that there is a clearance of at least 14 feet above
any street or alley, and a clearance of at least seven feet over any sidewalk.
It shall also be the duty and responsibility of every person owning or
occupying any real property within the town to keep all trees on that property
trimmed in such a manner that they do not obstruct the view of any traffic sign
or device for vehicle traffic in the direction controlled by that traffic sign
or device.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.11 TOPPING PROHIBITED.
   The practice of topping and/or other especially destructive maintenance
practices such as severely trimming trees in public trees is strictly
forbidden. “Severely trimmed” shall mean the cutting of the branches and/or
trunk of a tree in a manner which will substantially reduce the overall size of
the tree area so as to destroy the existing symmetrical appearance or natural
shape of the tree in a manner which results in the removal of main lateral
branches leaving the trunk of the tree in a stub appearances. The standards
identified in the ANSI A300 standards describe trimming methods, which will
give maximum benefits to both trees and people. These specifications and
methods are available from the Tree Program Supervisor.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 ACTION ON FAILURE TO ABATE.
   If upon re-inspection of the offending real estate, and, where notice has
been given by publication, after the lapse of the ten-day notice period, it is
determined by the Tree Program Supervisor that abatement has not occurred, and
shall be allowed to enter upon such private property or right-of-way and
proceed with corrective action.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.13 PROCEDURAL AND LABOR CHARGES.
   Services rendered in the enforcement of this chapter to any owners(s) shall
pay to the town the following fees and charges:
   (A)   Fifty dollars for each inspection to determine compliance.
   (B)   Twenty-five dollars for property ownership determination.
   (C)   All costs for notice publication.
   (D)   Twenty dollars for services performed in perfecting a lien.
   (E)   Ten dollars for certified mail preparation and sending.
   (F)   Forty dollars per man-hour plus equipment charges, as determined by
the Tree Program Supervisor, for services rendered in violation abatement.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.14 RESOLUTION OF CONFLICTS BETWEEN TREES AND STRUCTURES.
   Where sidewalk or curb damage due to tree roots occurs, every effort shall
be made to correct the problem without removing or damaging the tree. The Tree
Program Supervisor, in conjunction with the consulting arborist shall be
responsible for developing or approving corrective measures. Corrective action
may include alteration of sidewalk and/or curb construction.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.15 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   Any tree, shrub or groundcover, or plant growing or standing on private
property in such a manner that any portion thereof interferes with any public
street, sidewalk, alley or restricts the flow of traffic or visibility of such
street, sidewalk, alley or intersection thereof to any person or persons
lawfully using such streets, sidewalks, alleys or intersections shall
constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.16 DISEASED OR HAZARDOUS TREES AND PLANTS.
   The town shall have the exclusive authority to destroy any plants in or on
public streets, alleys, ways, places and parks if infected by disease or
injurious insects, or if in the judgment of the Tree Program Supervisor,
represents a dangerous condition or hazard to the public. Such destruction may
also be effected when necessary for the protection of other flora or in any
other case when the public safety, health or welfare is or may be adversely
affected.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
§ 95.17 ABATEMENT OF HAZARDOUS AND PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The town may remove or trim such tree, may permit any public utility to do
so, or may require the property owner to remove or trim such tree on private
property or on a public parking area abutting upon the property of the owner.
The failure of the property owner, or his or her duly authorized agent, to
remove such tree or perform specified maintenance on the tree, after 15 days
notice by the Tree Program Supervisor shall be deemed a violation of the
provisions of this chapter, and the Tree Program Supervisor may then remove or
trim such tree and assess the cost thereof against the property.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.18 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PLANTING WITHIN TOWN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No person shall plant any street tree except according to policies,
regulations and specifications established pursuant to this section:
   (A)   All trees or plant material planted on or in the public street,
sidewalk area, alley or parks shall be required by this code to have the
approval of the Tree Program Supervisor or the consulting arborist and be
granted a special permit for such planting.
   (B)   Plants shall be located and planted under the supervision of the Tree
Program Supervisor or designee, who shall supervise such planting and locating.
In the performance of such work, consideration shall be given to the following
factors; provided, that setbacks permit and considerations of safety do not
interfere. No tree shall be planted in any public street, alley, place or park
in the town less than 30 feet away from any other tree planted along the same
area or at a distance of less than 3 feet from any established sidewalk or curb
bordering any public right-of-way, except by written permission by the Tree
Program Supervisor.
   (C)   The Tree Program Supervisor shall have the power to set forth any
further specifications required and may alter methods of planting, reject any
tree or tree species, or suspend the right of a permit holder to plant, for any
reason and without advance notice.
   (D)   Trees that must be removed shall be replaced by new planting, except
in unusual circumstances or where construction or space is prohibitive.
   (E)   Plant material selected may vary, depending on location; however, they
must be of high quality and of suitable species, and not of the prohibited
species prescribed. All plant materials must conform to the specifications set
forth by the American Association of Nurserymen Plant Standards.
   (F)   Planting procedures shall comply with ANSI A300 standards for the
installation of nursery stock. Suitable maintenance plans and procedures must
be submitted prior to installation and shall be subject to the approval of the
Tree Program Supervisor and the consulting arborist.
   (G)   Permit holder shall guarantee survival of each tree for a minimum of
one year after planting date. Any tree not surviving the minimum shall be
replaced either by the permit holder or the department at the permit holder's
expense. After a period of one year, all plant materials shall become property
of the town and becomes the responsibility of the town.
   (H)   The coordination of tree planting on public ways with landscaping on
private property so as to achieve the above purposes is deemed desirable.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.19 HARMING PUBLIC TREES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of the provisions of this chapter for any person to
abuse, destroy or mutilate any tree, plant or shrub in the right-of-way or any
other public place, or to attach or place any rope, wire (other than one used
to support a young or broken tree), chain, sign, poster, handbill or other
things to or on any tree growing in a public place, or to cause or permit any
wire charged with electricity to be placed or attached to any such. tree, or
allow any gaseous, liquid or solid substance which is harmful to such trees to
come in contact with their roots, trunks, or leaves. No person shall perform
any arboricultural work on any plant material on town property unless first
granted a special permit indicating the approved activity on each designated
plant. All work on town trees including pruning, protecting, bracing,
relocating, cultivating, spraying or removing will be allowed only when
permitted by the Tree Program Supervisor.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.20 LICENSING OF PRIVATE TREE CARE FIRMS.
   It is unlawful for any person or business to perform tree pruning and/or
repair work on public trees for hire within the town without a valid tree care
license issued by the Tree Program Supervisor.
   (A)   Each tree pruned or otherwise modified in violation of this provision
shall constitute a separate offense. The first such offense is punishable by a
fine not to exceed $500; each subsequent offense is punishable by a fine not to
exceed $1,000. A single person or business establishes no maximum fine for
multiple violations.
   (B)   The Tree Program Supervisor is authorized to issue tree care licenses
to persons or businesses that meet the following minimum requirements: The
person or at least one person on the staff of a business must be designated as
a qualified arborist by the town. To be designated as a qualified arborist, a
tree service employee shall demonstrate knowledge of proper arboricultural
techniques by providing documentation of professional certification, education,
and/or experience acceptable to the town arborist.
   (C)   The licensee must sign an affidavit to certify that all tree work will
be performed under the direct supervision of the qualified arborist and will
comply with all town standards and ordinances.
   (D)   The Tree Program Supervisor is authorized to suspend or revoke the
tree care license of any person or business that performs work which does not
comply with tree care standards as specified in ANSI A300, in this chapter and
in the tree management plan. License suspensions and revocations may be
appealed to the Town Council within ten days of notification. The decision of
the Town Council shall be final and is not subject to appeal.
   (E)   The Tree Program Supervisor, under the guidance of the consulting
arborist, may reissue any tree care business license previously revoked subject
to the above minimum requirements and any additional requirements as may be
prescribed by the consulting arborist and approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 CONSERVATION OF FOREST AND WOODLAND RESOURCES DURING DEVELOPMENT.
   No person, business or corporation shall destroy or significantly alter any
forest or woodland through tree damage or removal, clearing, grading, tilling,
burning, application of chemicals, or any other means unless they apply for
special permitting. No person, business or corporation shall be granted a
permit for subdivision, grading, building or the construction of any
improvement on wooded or forested lands unless they possess a valid permit. Any
alteration of wooded or forested lands shall conform to the conditions and
specifications of the Tree Management Program.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22 PROHIBITED SPECIES LIST.
   The following tree species shall not be used by anyone for planting along
any public street, alley, right-of-way or park. The town shall not place, nor
permit to be placed, any tree or shrub, which will cause or tend to cause a
hazardous or unsafe condition either for motorists or pedestrians. Other
species of trees and plants may be added at any time and subject to revision.
Acer negundo                Box Elder
Acer sacharrinum            Silver Maple
Ailanthus altissima         Tree of Heaven
Betula papyrifera           Paper Birch
Betula pendula              European White Birch
Catalpa bignoides           Southern Catalpa
Morus species               Mulberry
Populus nigra               Lombardy Poplar
Populus deltoides           Cottonwood
Salix species               Willows, all
Ulmus species               Elms, all
Robinia pseudoacacia        Black Locust
Gingko species              Gingko, except seedless cultivars.
Juglans nigra               Black Walnut
Pyrus callefyana “BradfordBradford Pear
 
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Tree removal and damage violations. Any person who neglects or refuses
to comply with, or assists in the violation of, any of the provisions of this
chapter, or any order, permit, or notice issued pursuant thereto, shall be
fined not more than $1,000 for each such violation and shall pay in addition
the cost of replacement as provided in this section. Each day any such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each tree removed
or damaged shall also constitute a separate offense. Any person who causes a
tree to be removed or damaged in violation of this chapter, or any order,
permit, or notice issued pursuant thereto, shall repair or replace any such
tree at the violator's sole cost and expense pursuant to the tree replacement
requirements set forth in sections of this chapter. The cost of replacement
shall be $100 for each DBH inch of the removed or damaged tree. If the precise
DBH cannot be determined, the cost of replacement shall be determined by the
Tree Program Supervisor based on the consulting arborist's estimate of the DBH
of the removed or damaged tree. The person responsible for the violation shall
pay the replacement cost of the tree to the town. The location, species, and
planting specification for replacement trees shall be approved prior to
replanting by the Tree Program Supervisor pursuant to the requirements of
sections in this chapter.
   (B)   Planting, arboricultural work or encroachment violations. If the Tree
Program Supervisor determines that a violation exists regarding planting,
maintenance or encroachment of trees or flora upon property within the right-
of-way the following shall occur:
      (1)   A preliminary notice shall be given to the owner or occupant of
such property, either verbally or by posting the notice on the property. The
notice shall state the nature of the alleged violation, corrective action
necessary and a date, not less than two weeks, when the property will be re-
inspected to determine if compliance has been effected. After re-inspection, if
it is determined that the violation has been corrected, the owner or occupant
shall not be liable for any charges by reason of the preliminary notice
procedure.
      (2)   If any violation is not corrected as a result of the preliminary
notice, or no preliminary notice is given, or the condition exists on a vacant
lot or unoccupied, unimproved real estate, the Tree Program Supervisor shall
give to the owner of such real estate written notice of the existing condition.
Such notice shall be given by certified mail, stating the nature of the
violation, describe the real estate upon which the condition exists and demand
abatement of the condition and set a date, not sooner than two weeks after the
date of such notice. The property shall then be re-inspected to determine if
abatement has been effected. If the certified mail is not returned within 30
calendar days or if the address of the owner is unknown and cannot be
ascertained after due diligence, it shall be sufficient to give notice by
publication in the town newspaper circulation. The owner(s) notified by
publication shall have ten days from the date of the published notice in which
to abate the offending condition.
(Ord. 2002-7A, passed 9-24-02)
CHAPTER 96: ADA COMPLIANCE
Section
   
96.01   Grievance procedures
   
96.02   ADA Transition Plan adopted
§ 96.01 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements of Title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”), the Town of Fortville will not discriminate
against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of disability in
its access to services, programs or activities.
   (B)   Employment. The Town of Fortville does not discriminate on the basis
of disability in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all
regulations as outlined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
under Title I of the ADA.
   (C)   Effective communication. The Town of Fortville will, upon request,
provide appropriate aids and services leading to effective participation for
people with disabilities to participate equally in the Town of Fortville’s
programs, services and activities. Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or
service for effective participation or modification of policies or procedures
to participate in a service, program, or activity, contact the office of the
ADA Coordinator as soon as possible but no later than 48 hours before the
scheduled event.
   (D)   Modifications to policies and procedures.
      (1)   The Town of Fortville will make all reasonable modifications to
policies and programs to ensure that people with disabilities have an equal
opportunity to enjoy all of its programs, services and activities. The
Americans with Disabilities Act does not require the Town of Fortville to take
any action that would fundamentally alter the nature of its services or
programs or impose an undue financial or administrative burden to the Town of
Fortville. Complaints regarding a service, program or activity of the Town of
Fortville that is not accessible to persons with disabilities should be
directed to the ADA Coordinator.
      (2)   The Town of Fortville will not place a surcharge on a particular
individual with a disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to
cover the cost of providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications
of policy, such as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public
but are not accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
   (E)   Procedures. The Town of Fortville has adopted an internal grievance
procedure providing for prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging
any action prohibited by the U.S. Department of Justice regulations
implementing Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”). Title II
states, in part, that “no otherwise qualified disabled individual shall, solely
by reason of such disability, be excluded from the participation in, be denied
the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in programs, services or
activities sponsored by a public entity.”
      (1)   Step One: File the grievance.
         (a)   Complete the Town of Fortville grievance form. Grievance form
can be found on the Town of Fortville, Indiana website
(www.fortvilleindiana.org) or in the ADA Coordinator’s office. A grievance may
be communicated in writing, by e-mail, by fax or by telephone, but must follow
the format of the Town of Fortville grievance form.
         (b)   A grievance concerning the accessibility of the Town of
Fortville’s services, programs or activities should be addressed to:
            ADA Coordinator
            714 East Broadway
            Fortville, IN 46040
      (2)   Step Two: Acknowledgment. A grievance should be filed within 90
days after the grievant party becomes aware of the alleged violation. The ADA
Coordinator will send an acknowledgment of receipt of the grievance within 12
working days.
      (3)   Step Three: Informal resolution. Following the filing of a
grievance, the ADA Coordinator shall determine whether, and to what extent, an
investigation of the grievance is warranted. Any resulting investigation shall
be conducted by the ADA Coordinator or his or her designee. In the case of a
property or access issue, the grievance will also be investigated by the Town
of Fortville Property Manager. A thorough investigation affords all interested
persons and their representatives an opportunity to submit evidence relevant to
a grievance. The ADA Coordinator will complete the investigation within 60
calendar days of receipt of the grievance. If appropriate, the ADA Coordinator
will arrange to meet with the grievant to discuss the matter and attempt to
reach an informal resolution of the grievance. Any informal resolution of the
grievance shall be documented in the ADA Coordinator file and the case will be
closed.
      (4)   Step Four: Written determination. If an informal resolution of the
grievance is not reached in Step 3, within 60 calendar days of receipt of the
grievance, a written determination as to the validity of the complaint, and
description of the resolution, if appropriate, shall be forwarded by the ADA
Coordinator to the Executive Officer for approval.
      (5)   Step Five: Final determination and resolution.
         (a)   The ADA Coordinator shall communicate the determination and
resolution to the grievant within 90 calendar days of receipt of the grievance,
unless the Executive Officer authorizes additional time for further
consideration of the grievance. Any authorized extension of time will be
communicated to the grievant. Any request for reconsideration of the response
to the grievance shall be at the discretion of the Executive Officer.
         (b)   If the grievant is not satisfied with the Town of Fortville’s
handling of the grievance at any stage of the process, or does not wish to file
a grievance through the Town of Fortville’s ADA Title II Grievance Procedures,
the grievant may file a complaint directly with the U.S. Department of Justice
or other appropriate state or federal agency. Use of the Town of Fortville’s
grievance procedure is not a prerequisite to the pursuit of other remedies.
         (c)   The resolution of any specific grievance will require
consideration of varying circumstances, such as the specific nature of the
disability; the nature of the access to services, programs, or facilities at
issue, the essential eligibility requirements for participation; the health and
safety of others; and the degree to which an accommodation would constitute a
fundamental alteration to the service, program or facility, or cause an undue
hardship to the Town of Fortville. Accordingly, the resolution by the Town of
Fortville of any one grievance does not constitute a precedent upon which the
Town of Fortville is bound or upon which other complaining parties may rely.
   (F)   File maintenance. The Town of Fortville’s ADA Coordinator shall
maintain ADA grievance files for three years.
(Ord. 2012-6B, passed 7-2-12)
§ 96.02 ADA TRANSITION PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The ADA requires the town to evaluate municipal infrastructure,
buildings, and programs (e.g., Town Council meetings) to identify any
modifications that may be necessary to comply with the ADA and to develop a
Transition Plan to take any necessary actions to attain compliance.
   (B)   The town utilized the Madison County Council of Governments to
evaluate the municipal buildings and properties and develop the Transition Plan
for the town (“Plan”).
   (C)   The Town Council has reviewed the proposed Transition Plan and also
taken public comment on the same.
   (D)   The Town Council adopts the Plan as presented. A copy of the Plan is
available for public inspection during normal business hours at the offices of
the town.
(Res. 2013-2B, passed 2-19-13)
CHAPTER 97: ALARM SYSTEM REGULATIONS
Section
   
97.01   Alarm system permit required
   
97.02   Application for permit
   
97.03   Issuance
   
97.04   Permit fee; term
   
97.05   Location of permit
   
97.06   Number of false alarms permitted during calendar year
   
97.07   Notice of violations to be given
   
97.08   Service of notice; contents
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 ALARM SYSTEM PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person in control of property to operate,
cause to be operated, or permit the operation of an alarm system on that
property unless a current alarm system permit has been obtained from the Police
Department.
   (B)   Any person who operates an alarm system at the time this chapter
becomes effective shall have 30 days after the effective date of the chapter to
apply for an alarm system permit,
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 2019-4A, passed 5-20-19)
§ 97.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a permit for the operation of an alarm system shall be made
by a person or legal entity having control over the property on which the alarm
system is to be installed and operated. Such application shall be made in
writing to the Police Department on a form designated by the town for that
purpose. The application shall include the following information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of each person in control of
the property;
   (B)   The street address of the property on which the alarm system is to be
installed and operated;
   (C)   Any business name used for the premises on which the alarm system is
to be installed and operated;
   (D)   Whether the alarm system or systems are or are not local alarms and
whether the alarm system or systems are designed to give notice of a burglary,
hold-up or other type of emergency;
   (E)   The name of the person or alarm system business who will install the
alarm system; and
   (F)   The names and telephone numbers of two representatives who are able to
and have agreed:
      (1)   To receive notification at any time;
      (2)   To come to the alarm site within 30 minutes after receiving a
request from the Fortville Police Department or Vernon Township Fire Department
to do so; and
      (3)   To grant access to the alarm site and to deactivate the alarm
system if such becomes necessary.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 2019-4A, passed 5-20-19)
§ 97.03 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Police Department shall issue an alarm system permit to the person
or other legal entity in control of the property upon submission of an
application in accordance with this section and payment of the permit fee for
business property, unless the Police Department finds that any statement made
in the application was incomplete or false.
   (B)   All information on such application shall be protected as confidential
information, provided, however, nothing in this section shall prohibit the use
of such information for legitimate law enforcement purposes and for enforcement
of this chapter.
   (C)   The permit holder shall promptly notify the Police Department in
writing of any change in the information contained in the permit application.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 2019-4A, passed 5-20-19)
§ 97.04 PERMIT FEE; TERM.
   (A)   The fee for an alarm system permit shall be $20 for property used for
business purposes. There shall be no permit fee for residential properties.
   (B)   An alarm system permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid
for a term of two years commencing from the date of issuance.
   (C)   An alarm system permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
personal to the permit holder and is not transferrable.
   (D)   An alarm system permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be
suspended or revoked pursuant to the conditions and procedures established by §
97.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 2019-4A, passed 5-20-19)
§ 97.05 LOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The permit holder for an alarm system shall keep such permit at the alarm
site in a location which is visible to any law enforcement official who
responds to an alarm.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 2019-4A, passed 5-20-19)
§ 97.06 NUMBER OF FALSE ALARMS PERMITTED DURING CALENDAR YEAR.
   It shall be unlawful for a person who controls property on which an alarm
system is installed to issue, cause to be issued or permit the issuance of more
than three false alarms in a calendar year. Provided, however, this section
shall not apply to an alarm system which emits a false alarm within 30 days
after installation of the alarm system.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 2019-4A, passed 5-20-19)
§ 97.07 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS TO BE GIVEN.
   If an alarm system issues more than three false alarms in a calendar year,
the person who controls the property on which such alarm system is installed
shall receive notice of violation of §
97.06 in the manner directed in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 2019-4A, passed 5-20-19)
§ 97.08 SERVICE OF NOTICE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer or Fire Department officer shall notify the
owner or operator of an alarm system, or his or her representative, of a
violation of §
97.06 by presenting such person found in possession or in charge of the alarm
system with a written notice. If the officer shall not find any such person in
possession or in charge of the premises, or if the person is a child or
incapable of receiving the notice, the officer shall notify such owner or
operator either by mail or by posting or attaching a written notice of the
violation in a conspicuous place upon the premises and such person shall be
bound. thereby.
   (B)   All notices of violations, as required to be served by this chapter,
shall be executed by the law enforcement officer or other authorized person. A
copy shall be served upon the violator.
   (C)   All notices provided for in this chapter shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The specific violation with which the violator is charged;
      (2)   The date and time of the violation;
      (3)   The current number of the violation.
   (D)   The copy of the notice served upon the violator or his or her
representative, or the owner of the premises, shall also state that the
violator or such other person shall appear in person or by attorney or agent,
at the office of the Ordinance Violations Bureau to plead guilty or not guilty
within 14 days of the hour of 12:00 noon of the date of the violation appearing
upon the notice. However, if the period of 14 days shall expire upon a Sunday
or a legal holiday, then the period of time in which the violator must appear
shall be extended to the next business day. A violator may plead guilty and pay
his or her fine within 14 days of the violation by mailing a copy of his or her
citation and appropriate payment by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the
Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 2019-4A, passed 5-20-19)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a $200 fine
unless an alarm system permit is obtained within ten days after receiving
notification of the violation.
   (B)   The penalties payable upon such compromises, not including any costs
specifically required by statute to be added thereto, shall be as follows:
      (1)   For the violations of §
97.06, the penalty shall be $75 for the fourth violation within each calendar
year the penalty shall be $150 for the fifth violation; and $200 for every
other violation within the same calendar year.
      (2)   Such additional costs shall be assessed and paid as may be required
by statute or this chapter.
   (C)   Any duly appointed officer or employee of the Ordinance Violations
Bureau is authorized and empowered to accept on behalf of the town any such
offer of compromise of any violator, when the required amount of the penalty is
properly tendered pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 2019-4A, passed 5-20-19)
CHAPTER 98: FIREWORKS
Section
   
98.01   Definition of consumer firework
   
98.02   Use of consumer fireworks within the town
   
98.03   Supervised public displays
   
98.04   Enforcement
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITION OF CONSUMER FIREWORK.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORK.
      (1)   A small firework that is designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that is required to comply witii the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by die United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR 1507. The term also includes
some small devices designed to produce an audible effect, such as whistling
devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive
composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive
composition. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of
charcoal, sulfur, and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to
produce an audible effect.
CONSUMER FIREWORK includes but may not be limited to the following:
         (a)   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines, and shells;
         (b)   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes, and
chasers; and
         (c)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects
described in divisions (1)(a) and (b) above.
      (2)   The following items are specifically excluded from the definition
of CONSUMER FIREWORK:
         (a)   Model rockets;
         (b)   Toy pistol caps;
         (c)   Emergency signal flares;
         (d)   Matches;
         (e)   Fixed ammunition for firearms;
         (f)   Ammunition components intended for use fn firearms, muzzle
loading cannons, or   small arms;
         (g)   Shells, cartridges, and primers for use in firearms, muzzle
loading cannons, or small arms;
         (h)   Indoor pyrotechnics special effects material; or
         (i)   M-80s, cherry bombs, silver salutes, and any device banned by
the federal government.
      (3)   In addition, the following items are excluded from the definition
of CONSUMER FIREWORK but are and shall continue to be subject to applicable
permitting requirements and state statutes governing fireworks:
         (a)   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountains;
         (c)   Cone fountains;
         (d)   Illuminating torches;
         (e)   Wheels;
         (f)   Ground spinners;
         (g)   Flitter sparklers;
         (h)   Snakes or glow worms;
         (i)   Smoke devices; and
         (j)   Trick noisemakers, which include:
            1.   Party poppers;
            2.   Booby traps;
            3.   Snappers;
            4.   Trick matches;
            5.   Cigarette loads; and
            6.   Auto burglar alarms.
(Ord. 2018-6C, passed 7-2-18)
§ 98.02 USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS WITHIN THE TOWN.
   It shall be unlawful to use or display or permit to be used or displayed
within the municipal boundaries of the town any type of consumer firework on
any day or time other than the following:
   (A)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June 29,
June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July 9;
   (B)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
   (C)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m and 11:00 p.m. beginning on the Friday
before Memorial Day and continuing through Memorial Day;
   (D)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m and 11:00 p.m. beginning on the Friday
before Labor Day and continuing through Labor Day; and
   (E)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
(Ord. 2018-6C, passed 7-2-18)
§ 98.03 SUPERVISED PUBLIC DISPLAYS.
   This chapter shall not apply to supervised public displays of fireworks by
municipalities, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or
groups of individuals, all of which are and shall continue to be subject to
applicable permitting requirements and state statutes.
(Ord. 2018-6C, passed 7-2-18)
§ 98.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fortville Metropolitan Police Department shall be charged with enforcing
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-6C, passed 7-2-18)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of $150 for the first offense and $250 for each subsequent offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2018-6C, passed 7-2-18)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Authority to license
   
110.02   Duration of license, display required
   
110.03   Issuance, revocation or suspension
Regulations
   
110.20   Peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants
   
110.21   Liquor retailer’s permits
   
110.22   Sidewalk café permits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 AUTHORITY TO LICENSE.
   The town has the authority to impose a license fee that is reasonably
related to the administrative cost of exercising such regulating powers.
(`87 Code, § 4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing the regulation of business crafts, professions and occupations,
see I.C. 36-8-2-10
   Providing towns with licensing power, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(5)
§ 110.02 DURATION OF LICENSE, DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   (A)   All licenses issued under this chapter, unless specified otherwise on
the license, shall be issued for the duration of the calendar year for which
they were issued and shall expire on December 31.
   (B)   Every person who is issued a license under the provisions of the
licensed activity is being conducted or if there are not premises shall carry
the license while engaged in the activity for which he or she has been licensed
and shall exhibit it to any town official or citizen upon request.
(`87 Code, § 4-2)
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue licenses upon payment of the license
fees and compliance with the applicable provisions of this code and Town
Council approval.
   (B)   Licenses issued by the town may be revoked or suspended if the person
holding the license has violated the terms or conditions of the license or the
law under which it was issued or has conducted the business in such a manner as
to constitute a threat to public health, safety or general welfare of the
town’s citizens.
(`87 Code, § 4-3)
Statutory reference:
   Addressing license revocations or suspensions by the town executive, see
I.C. 36-5-4-11
   Authorizing the Clerk-Treasurer to issue licenses, see I.C. 36-5-6-6(b)(8)
REGULATIONS
§ 110.20 PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
      EXEMPT PERSON. An exempt person shall include the following:
         (a)   An individual while and to the extent he/she is engaged in a
protected political speech or activity.
         (b)   An individual while and to the extent he/she is engaged in
protected religious speech or activity.
         (c)   An individual engaged in the solicitation of funds and/or the
sale of cookies, candies, paper products, or similar sundries for and on behalf
of a not-for-profit or nonprofit organization or association that is exempt
from the Indiana Gross Retail Tax.
         (d)   An individual, who, due to pre-exemption or applicable federal
or state law is exempt from local licensing requirements.
         (e)   An individual that has been invited by the lawful owner or
occupant of a residence or business to solicit his/her particular goods or
services.
         (f)   Any person that has been granted direct marketing authority by
the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission pursuant to the provisions of the
I.C. 8-1-34-30.
         (g)   Any person engaged in sales, or offers to sell, during any event
that is pre-approved for such sales by the Town Council.
      GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is
not restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
      PEDDLER.
         (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the town.
         (c)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not a transient merchant.
      SOLICITOR.
         (a)   Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.
         (b)   A person who is a solicitor is not a peddler.
      TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee,
who engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who,
in the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or
any place within the town.
   (B)   License requirement.
      (1)   Any person who is a transient merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the town.
      (2)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be $25.
      (3)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
      (4)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after
the date of issuance thereof.
   (C)   Application procedure.
      (1)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Police Department. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   1.   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
            2.   The local address of such individual;
            3.   The permanent address of such individual;
            4.   The capacity in which such individual will act;
         (c)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose
the business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of
incorporation;
         (d)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry
on applicant's business;
         (e)   1.   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
            2.   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold
by sample as well as from stock; or
            3.   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
         (f)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the
business;
         (g)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (C)(1)(b)1. above, or the person identified in division (C)(1)(c)
above has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of
each offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
      (2)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (C)(1) above:
         (a) A description of the applicant; and
         (b) A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
      (3)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach
to their application the following:
         (a)   If required by the town, copies of all printed advertising
proposed to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
         (b)   If required by the town, credentials from the person, if any,
for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to
act as such representative;
         (c)   Proof of a $500 surety bond issued to the applicant for the
applicant's business;
         (d) $3 or the current cost to the Police Department for conducting a
limited criminal history check of the applicant (non-refundable); and
         (e)   $25 in the form requested by the Police Department for the
license, if issued. (The $25 shall be refunded if the license is not issued.)
      (4)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to
their application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C)
(3) above, a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days
prior to the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of
contagious or communicable disease.
   (D)   Standards for issuance.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
      (2)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would
pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general
welfare. In particular, evidence that the applicant will constitute valid
reasons for disapproval of an application:
         (a)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
transient merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
         (d)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
         (e)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
         (f)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
   (E)   Revocation. A license granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Chief of Police or his/her designee for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license
application;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
   (F)   Appeal procedure.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under divisions (D) and (E)
above shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Council, within 14 days after notice of the decision
to deny or revoke a license has been mailed to the applicant's or licensee's
last known address. The notice of appeal shall include a written statement
setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Council shall set the time and place
for a hearing and shall, at least ten days before the date of the hearing, mail
notice of the hearing to the applicant or licensee at the applicant's or
licensee's last known address.
      (2)   The order of the Council after the hearing shall be final.
   (G)   Display of license and identification.
      (1)   Any license issued to a transient merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
      (2)   The Chief of Police or his/her designee shall issue a license to
each peddler or solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall
contain the words "Licensed Peddler" or "Licensed Solicitor," the expiration
date of the license, and the number of the license. The license shall be kept
with the licensee during such time as he is engaged in the business licensed,
and
         (a)   If the licensee conducts door-to-door sales, the license must be
displayed prominently on the outermost layer of clothing worn by the licensee;
and
         (b)   If the licensee utilizes a vehicle to travel around the town to
conduct business, have a sign located in a conspicuous place on or in the
vehicle identifying the name of the licensee and, if applicable, the name of
the company or organization the licensee represents.
   (H)   No trespassing. A license issued under this chapter DOES NOT empower
the holder to ignore "No Trespassing," "No Solicitors," or similar signs or
lawful requests to not trespass on private property. This includes signs posted
at the entrance to subdivisions and/or individual homes and being verbally
informed by the resident or other authorized person that the solicitation is
unwelcome.
   (I)   Compliance with other laws. A licensee and a licensee's employees and
agents shall comply with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations
while conducting business allowed under the license in the town.
   (J)   Violations. Violation of this section may result in a penalty as
provided in the town's Penalty Schedule.
(Ord. 1995-10A, passed 11-14-95; Am. Ord. 2018-6D, passed 7-2-18) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 110.21 LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS.
   The consent of the town is given and granted unto the proper legal
authorities of the state to issue liquor retailer’s permits for the sale of
alcoholic, spirituous beverages to applicants otherwise duly qualified to
premises within the town, all pursuant to applicable state law.
(`87 Code, § 4-7)
Statutory reference:
   Address liquor retailer’s permits for small municipalities, see I.C. 7.1-3-
9-3
§ 110.22 SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMITS.
   (A)   Sidewalk cafés permitted; permit required. The owner of a restaurant,
which shall include any business selling food and beverages to the public for
immediate consumption, may set up tables and chairs on a sidewalk immediately
in front of and adjacent to the restaurant premises in accordance with this
section. Prior to establishing a sidewalk café, the restaurant owner must
obtain a right-of-way permit from the town.
   (B)   Location. The placement of the sidewalk café shall allow five feet of
open sidewalk for ADA and pedestrian access, except in special circumstances
approved by the town. The sidewalk café must be at least ten feet away from any
fire hydrant.
   (C)   Compliance with laws and regulations. The restaurant owner is
responsible for compliance with all federal, state, and local laws and
regulations affecting the operation of their sidewalk café. These include but
are not limited to regulation of alcoholic beverages and the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA), and specifically ADA requirements for accessibility and
accommodation into and within the sidewalk café service area.
   (D)   Separation of café; alcohol service. If the restaurant will serve
alcoholic beverages in the sidewalk café area, a barrier shall be provided
along the perimeter of the café area in order to separate it from the remaining
sidewalk area, as approved by the Indiana State Excise Police. Such barriers
shall be between 36 and 42 inches in height, may be flush to the ground, but
may not be permanently affixed to the sidewalk. Plastic chains are prohibited
and the design and materials of the proposed barrier shall be approved by the
town in the permitting process.
   (E)   No plastic furniture. Plastic tables, furniture, and chairs are
prohibited. The restaurant owner should take into consideration the design and
character of the restaurant building and surrounding buildings and streetscape
when selecting furniture.
   (F)   Cleanliness. The restaurant owner shall ensure that the sidewalk café
is clean and orderly and that tables are promptly cleared of any trash, dishes,
glasses, and silverware. The town may require the restaurant to provide and
maintain a closed trash container within the sidewalk café area.
   (G)   No signs or equipment on public property. The restaurant owner may not
attach signs or other equipment (e.g., lights, heaters, speakers) to public
amenities such as light poles, planters, benches, or street signs.
   (H)   Winter and off-season. The restaurant shall remove the sidewalk café
furniture and barrier (if any) between December 1 and April 1 to ensure that
the town can remove snow from the sidewalk, as necessary.
(Ord. 2022-6A, passed 6-20-22)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Curfew
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Prohibited activities
   
130.03   Exceptions
   
130.04   Enforcement procedure
Trespassing
   
130.15   Trespassing on town property
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS. This term means:
      (1)   For a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age:
         (a)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
         (b)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday; and
         (c)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday; and
      (2)   For a child under 15 years of age, after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00
a.m. on any day.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The terms includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, natural disaster, automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   GUARDIAN. This term means:
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age and is synonymous with the term
JUVENILE for the purposes of this chapter.
   PARENT. A person who is:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent of another person;
or
      (2)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to
have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes but is not limited to, streets, sidewalks,
highways and private residences left open to the public without the presence of
adult supervision and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartments,
office buildings and transportation facilities.
   REMAIN. To:
      (1)   Linger or stay, whether on foot or in a vehicle; or
      (2)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator or person in control of the premises.
(Ord. 1998-4B, passed 5-12-98)
§ 130.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It is a violation of this subchapter and unlawful for a child 15, 16
or 17 years of age to be in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
and
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   It is a violation of this subchapter and unlawful for a child under 15
years of age to be in a public place after 11:00 p.m. on or before 5:00 a.m. on
any day.
   (C)   It is a violation of this subchapter and unlawful for a parent or
guardian of a minor to knowingly permit, or by insufficient control allow, the
minor to remain in a public place within the city during curfew hours. A parent
or guardian who:
      (1)   Despite his or her best efforts, is unable to bring his or her
minor child into compliance with this subchapter; and
      (2)   Notifies local law enforcement authorities of his or her
unsuccessful efforts and the minor child’s violation of this subchapter, is not
in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1998-4B, passed 5-12-98) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that, at the time
that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct, the child was emancipated:
      (1)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
      (2)   By virtue of having married; or
      (3)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child's parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child's parent, guardian,
or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child's rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, Section 31 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, or both,
such as freedom of speech and the right of assembly; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision
of one or more adults; or
      (4)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside Indiana to another location outside Indiana.
(Ord. 1998-4B, passed 5-12-98)
§ 130.04 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer or code enforcement officer will ask the apparent offender’s age and
reason for being in the public place. The officer will not issue a citation or
make an arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that a
violation of this subchapter has occurred.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 31-37-5, whenever a law enforcement officer believes
in good faith that a person has committed a violation of this subchapter, the
law enforcement officer may detain that person for a time sufficient to:
      (1)   Inform the person of the allegation;
      (2)   Obtain the person’s:
         (a)   Name, address and date of birth; or
         (b)   Driver’s license, if in his or her possession; and
      (3)   Allow the person to execute a notice to appear.
(Ord. 1998-4B, passed 5-12-98)
TRESPASSING
§ 130.15 TRESPASSING ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   No person shall trespass or otherwise enter town property where "no
trespassing" signs have been posted.
(Ord. 2014-4A, passed 4-21-14)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever shall violate any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Minors and their parent(s) and/or guardian(s) who violate any of the
provisions of §§
130.01 et seq. will be guilty of an ordinance violation and will be subject to
the following sanctions:
      (1)   For a minor’s first offense, the minor will be issued a warning
from local law enforcement authorities and his or her parent(s) and/or guardian
(s) will be notified of the violation;
      (2)   For a minor’s second offense, the minor will be prosecuted for the
violation, a judgment will be sought against them in the amount of $25, plus
court costs, and his or her parent(s) and/or guardian(s) will be notified of
the violation;
      (3)   For a minor’s third offense, the minor and his or her parent(s)
and/or guardian(s) will be prosecuted for the violation and a judgment will be
sought against each of them in the amount of $50, plus court costs; and
      (4)   For a minor’s fourth offense and subsequent offense(s), the minor
and his or her parent(s) and/or guardian(s) will be prosecuted for the
violation and a judgement will be sought against each of them in the amount of
$100, plus court costs.
(Ord. 1998-4B, passed 5-12-98)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
152.   ZONING CODE
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
      
154.   RIGHT-OF-WAY DEDICATION
      
155.   ACCESS MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL
      
156.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Authority
   
150.06   Severability
   
150.07   Supremacy
   
150.08   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
   
150.09   Effective date
Building Permits
   
150.20   Building permit required
   
150.21   Application for building permit
   
150.22   Issuance of building permit
   
150.23   Notice of use of advanced structural components
   
150.24   Certificate of occupancy
Investigations and Inspections of Construction Activities
   
150.35   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
150.36   Inspections by Fire Department
Enforcement
   
150.50   Withhold issuance of permits
   
150.51   Permit revocation
   
150.52   Stop-work order
   
150.53   Civil action
   
150.54   Right of appeal
Minimum Construction Standards
   
150.65   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.66   Lifting devices located within a private residence
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included by reference shall be known as the
“Building Code of Fortville, Indiana.”
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect life, public safety, health and
the general welfare of the citizens of the Town of Fortville, Indiana, and
shall be construed in such a manner as to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise clearly indicated by its context, the words and terms
defined in this section shall have the following meanings:
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-4.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-5.
   COMMISSION. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-6.
   CONSTRUCTION. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-7.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-
12-1-14.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-16.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-17.
   PERSON. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-18.
   STRUCTURE. Means both class 1 and class 2 structures, unless specifically
stated otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-26.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this chapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this Building Code is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Planning and Building Director, or his or her designee, is hereby
authorized and directed to administer and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11.
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.06 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision (section, clause, phrase, word, or any other portion)
of this chapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, the remaining provisions shall not be affected, if and only if
such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions be
given the effect intended in adopting this chapter. To this end, the provisions
of this chapter are severable.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.07 SUPREMACY.
   If any provision of this chapter conflicts with any building or fire safety
law adopted or administered by the Commission, the Commission’s laws govern.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.08 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this chapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter. Such rights, liabilities, and other proceedings
are continued and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or
amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This Building Code shall be in full force and effect from and after the date
on which both of the following have occurred:
   (A)   The Fortville Town Council has adopted this chapter.
   (B)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana has
approved of this chapter as required by I.C. 22-13-2-5.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.20 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Planning and Building Director prior to commencement of
construction.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Planning and Building Director.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Planning
and Building Director, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Planning and Building Director determines to
be necessary to locate and contact the applicant.
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all construction to be accomplished.
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and shall show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks.
      (4)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a construction design release for the
proposed construction issued pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1.
      (5)   All information required pursuant to I.C. 22-11-21-9 for qualifying
properties containing advanced structural components.
      (6)   Any additional information that the Planning and Building Director
finds to be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all
applicable building and fire safety laws and will not violate any other
applicable ordinances or laws.
      (7)   The fee established by the Town Council.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Planning
and Building Director may require that such an employee or agent provide
written authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.22 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Planning and Building Director shall issue a building permit to a person
after the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable
fee, provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable
building and fire safety laws and will not violate any other applicable
ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.23 NOTICE OF USE OF ADVANCED STRUCTURAL COMPONENTS.
   For all building permits issued covering the construction of qualifying
properties containing advanced structural components, the Planning and Building
Director shall send notice as required pursuant to I.C. 22-11-21-10.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.24 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any structure shall be issued unless such
structure was constructed in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. It
shall be unlawful to occupy any structure unless a full, partial, or temporary
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Planning and Building Director.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21) Penalty, see §
150.99
INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 150.35 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction is subject to periodic inspections by the Planning
and Building Director irrespective of whether a building permit has been, or is
required to be, obtained.
   (B)   The Planning and Building Director may at any reasonable time go in,
upon, around or about the premises where any structure subject to the
provisions of this chapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation
of such structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or
after construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this Building Code and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.36 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Planning and Building Director and the Fire Department shall work
cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance
with fire safety laws. (The Fire Department has independent authority to
conduct inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.)
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.50 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes the town money (including checks
returned for insufficient funds, permit fees, or inspection fees owed pursuant
to the Town Code), the Planning and Building Director may withhold the issuance
of subsequently requested permits until such time that the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Planning and Building Director is authorized to withhold the issuance of
requested permit(s) until such time that the property is brought into
conformance with applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.51 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Planning and Building Director may revoke a building permit if any of
the following apply:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building or fire safety laws.
   (C)   There is failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.52 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Planning and Building Director may issue an order requiring
suspension of the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with
this section.
   (B)   The stop work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance.
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place.
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   Identify the specific law, order, or interpretation upon which the
finding of noncompliance is based, specifying the edition, chapter, and section
of any applicable building or fire code.
      (6)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Planning and Building Director may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this chapter or any state
law pertaining to safety during construction.
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this chapter or in such a
manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will substantially difficult to correct the violation.
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.53 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the Town of Fortville may initiate a civil action
in a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.54 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter shall have
the right to petition for review of any order of the Planning and Building
Director.
   (B)   Such a person may file a petition using either, or both, of the
following procedures:
      (1)   Appeal to the Town Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Appeal to the Commission.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter may
appeal to the Commission, in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
town that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C.
22-15, a fire safety or a building rule.
         (c)   The Commission must review orders that concern a class 2
structure if the person aggrieved by the order petitions for review under I.C.
4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of the order.
         (d)   The Commission may review all other orders issued under this
chapter.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Commission does not suspend the
running of the time period under any statute in which a person must petition a
court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.65 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Commission as set out
in the following articles of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are
hereby incorporated by reference in this chapter:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes.
      (2)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code.
      (3)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code.
      (5)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
      (8)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code.
      (9)   Article 25 - Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
      (10)   Article 28 - NFPA Standards.
   (B)   Two copies of the above rules incorporated by reference are on file in
the office of the clerk for the legislative body for public inspection as
required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Planning and Building Director and the Commission may grant a
variance to the fire safety and building laws adopted in this chapter. Pursuant
to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted by the Planning and Building Director
is not effective until it has been approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.66 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to a fine
in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in
no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-9C, passed 10-4-21)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
§ 151.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Plan, copies of which are on file in the office of the
Town Manager, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as
fully as if set out at length herein.
(Am. Ord. 2017-8A, passed 10-16-17; Am. Ord. 2020-1B, passed 1-6-20)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Code, copies of which are on file in the office of the Town
Manager, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as
fully as if set out at length herein.
(Am. Ord. 2003-5A, passed - -02; Am. Ord. 2018-1A, passed 2-5-18; Am. Ord.
2020-1C, passed 1-6-20; Am. Ord. 2022-12C, passed 1-3-23)
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Floodplain Management Regulations are hereby adopted by reference as if
fully set out herein.
(Ord. 2007-11A, passed 11-19-07; Am. Ord. 2014-1A, passed 1-21-14)
CHAPTER 154: RIGHT-OF-WAY DEDICATION
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Intent and purpose
   
154.03   Applicability
   
154.04   Extent, conveyance and timing
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEDICATION. Conveyance of land to the town by deed with map exhibit or some
other instrument of conveyance including a duly filed and recorded subdivision
plat.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Refers to an area of land appropriated for public use such as
a sidewalk, multi-use path, trail, driveway, alley, street, or highway or for
any drainage or public utility purpose or other similar public uses or
purposes.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. Refers to the transportation plan or study included as
part of the most recently adopted Comprehensive Plan.
   TRANSPORTATION FACILITY. Sidewalks, multi-use paths, trails, driveways,
alleys, streets, highways, or another type of facility that moves people and
goods from one point to another.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
§ 154.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter establishes guidelines for the applicability,
conformance, and extent for dedication and deeding of right-of-way.
   (B)   The adoption of this chapter is essential to preserving transportation
corridors that are expected to require improvements due to growth. Increasing
residential, commercial, and industrial developments place additional strain on
the transportation network. The acquisition and purchase of right-of-way
necessary to support future transportation demand is a costly and possibly
damaging process for community development. This chapter establishes the method
for the town to systematically preserve right-of-way to minimize the cost of
future acquisition for transportation improvements.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
§ 154.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A) Property owners shall be required to dedicate right-of-way to the town
in accordance with the prescribed width per the Thoroughfare Plan for
transportation purposes as a condition of approval for new development or
redevelopment, when to do so is found to be reasonably necessary to mitigate an
impact which is a direct result of a proposed development, for improvement, use
or maintenance of the transportation system serving the development.
   (B)   Right-of-way dedication shall be required in the following cases:
      (1)   To obtain the right-of-way reasonably necessary for the
construction of frontage improvements along the frontage of the development's
parcel. This may include right-of-way necessary to attain sufficient
intersection sight distance in accordance with the following publications and
regulations:
         (a)   Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) Driveway Permit
Manual, latest edition; and
         (b)   INDOT Design Manual.
      (2)   To obtain the right-of-way reasonably necessary for the
construction of any other improvements, either along the frontage of the
development's parcel or off-site, as may be required in the development
approval process.
      (3)   To obtain the right-of-way reasonably necessary such that an
existing offset road shall be located within right-of-way after the right-of-
way dedication.
      (4)   To obtain the right-of-way reasonably necessary for maintenance of
town transportation and/or drainage facilities.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
§ 154.04 EXTENT, CONVEYANCE AND TIMING.
   (A)   All dedicated and designated rights-of-way for any particular
development shall conform to the minimum dimensions identified within the
Thoroughfare Plan.
   (B)   If determined to be necessary by the Town Manager, all dedicated and
designated rights-of-way shall include minimal additional right-of-way along
arterial and collector classified roadways as necessary to accommodate turn
pockets and/or passing blisters.
   (C)   If the property owner only controls the property on one side of the
transportation facility, then satisfactory right-of-way shall be dedicated in
order to bring the applicable half of the right-of-way up to the dimensions
required in the Thoroughfare Plan. The Town Manager shall determine the
satisfactory right-of-way necessary, accounting for overall right-of-way
limitations and constraints, such as, but not limited to, the impact on
adjacent historic resources.
   (D)   When right-of-way is required to be dedicated, it shall be conveyed by
warranty deed or another form of conveyance. If requested by the Town Manager
or designee, all warranty deeds and other documents of conveyance or dedication
of right-of-way must be accompanied by a title report effective as of the date
of conveyance shown on the deed or other document of conveyance. The
description on the deed or other document of conveyance must match the legal
description on the title report. The warranty deed or other document of
conveyance may be accepted on behalf of the town by the Town Manager.
   (E)   The town shall only accept rights-of-way which have clear title.
   (F)   Required right-of-way must be conveyed to and accepted by the town
prior to issuance of any building permit. If the right-of-way dedication is in
conjunction with a subdivision, the dedication process required as part of the
final plat process shall be followed.
   (G)   When necessary, the town may begin eminent domain proceedings in
accordance with I.C. 32-24, as amended. Upon completion of the eminent domain
proceedings, the property owner shall reimburse the town in an amount equal to
the price paid by the town for the public right-of-way and associated
professional and legal expenses, anything that had to be condemned within the
acquired right-of-way, and anything for which the town paid the price of
relocation.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
CHAPTER 155: ACCESS MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL
Section
   
155.01   Purpose and intent
   
155.02   Applicability
   
155.03   Roadways subject to access management regulations
   
155.04   Driveway and related access standards
   
155.05   Service drives and other shared access standards
   
155.06   Temporary access permits
   
155.07   Nonconforming driveways
   
155.08   Waivers
   
155.09   Fees in escrow for professional reviews
§ 155.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum regulations for
access to property. Standards are established for new roads, driveways, shared
access, parking lot cross access, and service roads. The standards of this
chapter are intended to promote safe and convenient travel within the town;
minimize disruptive and potentially hazardous traffic conflicts; ensure safe
access by emergency vehicles; protect the substantial public investment in the
transportation system by preserving capacity and avoiding the need for
unnecessary and costly reconstruction which disrupts business and traffic flow;
separate traffic conflict areas by reducing the number of driveways; provide
safe spacing standards between driveways, and between driveways and
intersections; provide for shared access between abutting properties; implement
the Comprehensive Plan and the Thoroughfare Plan recommendations; ensure
reasonable access to properties, though not always by the most direct access;
and to coordinate access decisions with the Indiana Department of
Transportation (INDOT), as applicable.
   (B)   The intent of this chapter is to provide and manage access to land
development, while preserving the regional flow of traffic in terms of safety,
capacity, and mobility. Major thoroughfares serve as the primary network for
moving people and goods. These transportation corridors also provide access to
businesses and homes and serve as the focus for commercial and residential
development. If access systems are not properly designed, these thoroughfares
will be unable to accommodate the access needs of development and retain their
primary transportation function. This chapter balances the right of reasonable
access to private property, with the rights of the citizens of the town and the
State of Indiana to safe and efficient travel.
   (C)   To achieve this policy intent, state and local thoroughfares have been
categorized by function and classified for access purposes based upon their
level of importance. The standards of this chapter are based on traffic
analysis by the Town of Fortville, Hancock County, the Madison County Council
of Governments (MCCOG), or INDOT, as applicable. This analysis demonstrates
that the combination of roadway design, traffic speeds, traffic volumes,
traffic crashes and other characteristics necessitate special access standards.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
§ 155.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The standards in this chapter apply to private and public land along
road rights-of-way that are under the jurisdiction of the town or INDOT. The
requirements and standards of this chapter shall be applied in addition to, and
where permissible shall supersede, the requirements of INDOT or Chapter 154 of
this Code.
   (B)   The standards of this chapter shall be applied by the Planning
Administrator or Town Engineer during subdivision and site plan review, as
applicable. The Planning Administrator shall make findings of nonconformance,
conformance, or conformance if certain conditions are met, with the standards
of this chapter prior to disapproving or approving a site plan per the
requirements of this chapter. The town shall coordinate its review of the
access elements of a plan with the appropriate transportation authority prior
to deciding on an application (see division (C) below). The approval of a plan
does not negate the responsibility of an applicant to subsequently secure
driveway permits from the appropriate authority, either the Planning
Administrator, Town Engineer, or INDOT (depending on the roadway).
   (C)   To ensure coordination, applicants are required to submit a site plan
or a preliminary plat to the town and INDOT, as applicable. The Planning
Administrator or Town Engineer may require submittal of a Traffic Impact Study
as described below:
      (1)   At a minimum, the Traffic Impact Study shall contain the following:
         (a)   Analysis of existing traffic conditions and/or site restrictions
using current data;
         (b)   Projected trip generation at the subject site or along the
subject service drive based on the most recent edition of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers Trip Generation Manual. The town may approve use of
other trip generation data if based on recent studies of at least three similar
uses within similar locations in Indiana.
         (c)   Illustrations of current and projected turning movements at
access points. Include identification of the impact of the development and its
proposed access on the operation of the abutting streets. Capacity analysis
shall be completed based on the most recent version of the Highway Capacity
Manual published by the Transportation Research Board (TRB), and shall be
provided in an appendix to the Traffic Impact Study.
         (d)   Description of the internal vehicular circulation and parking
system for passenger vehicles and delivery trucks, as well as the circulation
system for pedestrians, bicycles, and transit users, where applicable.
         (e)   Justification of need, including statements describing how the
additional access will meet the intent of this section, will be consistent with
the Thoroughfare Plan, will not compromise public safety and will not reduce
capacity or traffic operations along the roadway.
         (f)   Qualifications and documented experience of the author,
describing experience in preparing Traffic Impact Studies. The preparer shall
be either a registered traffic engineer (P.E.) or professional transportation
planner (P.T.P.) with experience preparing Traffic Impact Studies in Indiana.
If the Traffic Impact Study involves geometric design, the study shall be
prepared or supervised by a registered engineer with a strong background in
traffic engineering.
      (2)   The town may utilize its own traffic consultant to review the
applicant's Traffic Impact Study, with the cost of the review being borne by
the applicant per §
155.09.
   (D)   Failure by the applicant to begin construction of an approved road,
driveway, shared access, service drive, or other access arrangement within 12
months from the date of approval, shall void the approval and a new application
is required.
   (E)   The Planning Administrator or Town Engineer shall inspect the driveway
as constructed for conformance with the standards of this section and any
approval granted under it, prior to issuing an occupancy permit. The Planning
Administrator or Town Engineer shall coordinate with the appropriate INDOT
construction inspector to avoid dual inspections on applicable facilities.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
§ 155.03 ROADWAYS SUBJECT TO ACCESS MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.
   The access management regulations of this chapter apply to all property
according to the roadway classification of the abutting public streets and
roads within the town as described below and as illustrated in the Thoroughfare
Plan Map.
   (A)   Application of the access location and design standards of this
chapter requires identification of the functional classification of the street
on which access is requested and then applying the appropriate spacing
requirements. The roads of the town are classified as follows and are further
defined in the Thoroughfare Plan:
      (1)   Local;
      (2)   Collector;
      (3)   Secondary arterial;
      (4) Primary arterial.
   (B)   All unclassified public streets are local streets principally
providing access to single-family residences.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
§ 155.04 DRIVEWAY AND RELATED ACCESS STANDARDS.
   All lots hereafter created, and all structures hereafter created,
substantially altered, or relocated to property with frontage on, or access to,
a public road or street that is subject to regulation per §
155.03, shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   Access approval required. No road, driveway, shared access, parking
lot cross access, service road, or other access arrangement shall be
established, reconstructed, or removed without first meeting the requirements
of this section.
      (2)   Frontage on a public road or street.
         (a)   Any lot created after the effective date of this chapter shall
have frontage upon a public street right-of-way or private road or access
easement recorded with the County Recorder that meets the requirements of this
chapter.
         (b)   Contiguous properties under one ownership or consolidated for
unified development will be considered one parcel for the purposes of this
chapter.
      (3)   Clear vision. All access points shall maintain clear vision as
illustrated in §
156.072, as amended, of the Hancock County, Indiana Code of Ordinances.
      (4)   Street structures. No driveway shall interfere with municipal
facilities such as street light or traffic signal poles, signs, fire hydrants,
crosswalks, bus loading zones, utility poles, fire alarm supports, drainage
structures, or other necessary street structures. The Town Manager or designee
is authorized to order and effect the removal or reconstruction of any driveway
that is constructed in conflict with street structures. The cost of
reconstructing or relocating such driveways shall be at the expense of the
abutting property owner.
   (B)   Access location standards.
      (1)   Access point approval. No access point shall connect to a public
street or road without first receiving approval of the location and cross-
section specifications from the Planning Administrator or Town Engineer when on
a town street or INDOT when on a state highway. No access point shall connect
to a private road unless approved by the Planning Administrator or Town
Engineer and by the parties with an ownership interest in the private road.
      (2)   Factors on location of driveway access. At a minimum, the following
factors shall be considered prior to deciding on the location of a driveway or
other access point:
         (a)   The characteristic of the proposed land use;
         (b)   The existing traffic flow conditions and the future traffic
demand anticipated by the proposed development on the adjacent street system;
         (c)   The location of the property;
         (d)   The size of the property;
         (e)   The orientation of structures on the site;
         (f)   The minimum number of driveways or other access points needed to
accommodate anticipated traffic based on a traffic analysis, as determined by
the community and road agency. Such finding shall demonstrate traffic
operations and safety along the public street would be improved (or at least
not negatively affected), and not merely that another access point is desired
for convenience;
         (g)   The number and location of driveways on existing adjacent and
opposite properties;
         (h)   The location and functional classification of abutting streets
or roads and the carrying capacity of nearby intersections;
         (i)   The proper geometric design of driveways;
         (j)   The spacing between opposite and adjacent driveways and from any
nearby intersection;
         (k)   The internal circulation between driveways and through parking
areas;
         (l)   The size, location, and configuration of parking areas relative
to the driveways; and
         (m)   The speed of the adjacent roadway.
      (3)   Access point location. Each access point location shall conform to
access management plans or corridor improvement plans that have been adopted by
the town or INDOT, as applicable.
      (4)   Access points within right-of-way. Driveways including the radii,
but not including right-turn lanes or passing lanes and tapers, shall be
located entirely within the right-of-way frontage unless otherwise approved by
the road agency and upon written certification from the adjacent land owner
agreeing to such encroachment.
      (5)   Backing-up from parking or loading area onto a public street or
service drive. Driveway access to arterials shall not be permitted for any
parking or loading areas that require backing maneuvers in a public street or
road right-of-way. Driveway access to collector streets, local streets, or
service drives for commercial, office, industrial, or multi-family developments
shall not be permitted for parking or loading areas that require backing
maneuvers in a public street right-of-way or onto a public or private service
drive.
      (6)   Relationship to lot line. No part of a commercial or industrial
driveway shall be located closer than ten feet from a lot line unless it is a
common or shared driveway as provided in division (F) below. This separation is
intended to help control stormwater runoff, permit snow storage on site, and
provide adequate area for any necessary on-site landscaping.
      (7)   Existing driveways. Except for shared driveways, existing driveways
that do not comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be closed when
an application for a change of use permit is required, or site plan requiring
approval per the requirements of this chapter is submitted and once approval of
a new means of access under this chapter is granted. A closed driveway shall be
graded and landscaped to conform to adjacent land, and any curb cut shall be
filled in with curb and gutter per the standards of the applicable road
authority. See also §
155.07.
      (8)   Intersection sight distance. Driveways shall be located so as not
to interfere with safe intersection sight distance as determined by the
appropriate road authority.
      (9)   Adequate corner clearance. Driveways shall be located so as not to
interfere with safe intersection sight distance as determined by
Table 4.2 as long that distance is beyond any clear vision area owned by the
road authority.
      (10)   Traffic signals. Access points on arterial and collector streets
may be required to be signalized to provide safe and efficient traffic flow.
Any signal shall meet the spacing requirements of the applicable road
authority. A development may be responsible for all or part of any right-of-
way, design, hardware, and construction costs of a traffic signal if it is
determined that the signal is warranted by the traffic generated from the
development. The procedures for the installation of the signal shall be in
accordance with the criteria of the road authority with the town.
   (C)   Number of driveways permitted.
      (1)   Access for an individual parcel, lot, or building site (or for
contiguous parcels, lots, or building sites under the same ownership) shall
consist of either one two-way driveway or a paired system wherein one driveway
is designed, and appropriately marked, to accommodate ingress traffic and other
egress traffic.
      (2)   One driveway shall be permitted for each single-family and two-
family residential lot or parcel.
      (3)   A temporary access permit may be issued for field entrances per §
155.06 for cultivated land, timber land, or undeveloped land, as well as for
uses at which no one resides or works such as cellular towers, water wells,
pumping stations, utility transformers, billboards, and similar uses. Field-
entrances and utility-structure driveways will be reviewed on a case-by-case
basis. The review shall take into account the proximity of the adjacent
driveways and intersecting streets as well as traffic volumes along the
roadway.
      (4)   For a parcel, lot, or building site with frontage exceeding 600
feet, or where a parcel, lot, or building site has frontage on at least two
streets, an additional driveway may be allowed, provided the driveways meet the
spacing requirement.
      (5)   Certain developments generate enough traffic to warrant
consideration of an additional driveway to reduce delays for exiting motorists.
Where possible, these second access point should be located on a side street or
service drive, or shared with adjacent uses, or designed for right-turn-in,
rights-turn-out only movements, and shall meet the spacing requirement of this
chapter. To be considered for a second driveway on an arterial or collector
street, combined approach volumes (entering and existing) of a proposed
development shall be performed. Uses where a second driveway could be
considered are influenced by the trip generation characteristics of uses and
the volumes of adjacent roadways. Determination for a second driveway may
require the completion of a Traffic Impact Study as explained in §
155.02.
      (6)   When alternatives to single, two-way driveway are necessary to
provide reasonable driveway access to property fronting on an arterial street,
and shared access or service drive are not a viable option, the following
progression of alternatives should be used.
         (a)   One standard, two-way driveway;
         (b)   Additional ingress/egress lanes on one standard, two-way
driveways;
         (c)   Two one-way driveways;
         (d)   Additional ingress/egress lanes on two, one-way driveways;
         (e)   Additional driveway(s) on an abutting street with lower
functional classification;
         (f)   Additional driveways on an arterial street. Note: Restricted
turns and roadway modifications will be considered in conjunction with
alternative driveway designs.
   (D)   Access point spacing standards.
      (1)   Separation from other driveways.
         (a)   1.   The minimum spacing between un-signalized driveways and
other access points shall be determined based upon posted speed limits along
the parcel frontage (see Table 4.1), unless the appropriate road authority
approves less based on the land use and restricted turns in the driveway
design. The minimum spacing indicated below are measured form the centerline of
one driveway to the centerline of the other driveway.
            2.   For sites with insufficient frontage to meet the table below,
the town shall require one of the following: construction of the driveway along
a side street, a shared driveway with an adjacent property, construction of
driveway along the property line farthest from the intersection, or a service
drive as described in §
155.05. The Planning Administrator or Town Engineer may grant temporary access
approval (see §
155.06) until such a time that minimum spacing requirements can be met, or
alternative access meeting the requirements of this ordinance  is approved.
Table 4.1
Minimum Access Spacing Between Adjacent Commercial/Industrial Access Points
Posted Speed Limit (mph) Minimum Spacing Between Adjacent Access Points (feet)
Table 4.1
Minimum Access Spacing Between Adjacent Commercial/Industrial Access Points
Posted Speed Limit (mph) Minimum Spacing Between Adjacent Access Points (feet)
25                       130
30                       185
35                       245
40                       300
45                       350
50                       455
Note: These values are considered minimums, based on the distances required to
avoid conflicts between vehicles and turning right or left from adjacent
driveways.
 
         (b)    In the case of expansion, alteration or redesign of an existing
development where it can be demonstrated that pre-existing conditions prohibit
adherence to the minimum driveway spacing standards, the Planning Administrator
or Town Engineer shall have the authority to modify the driveway spacing
requirements or grant temporary access approval until such time that minimum
spacing requirements can be met, or alternative access meeting the requirements
of this ordinance is approved. Such modifications shall be the minimum amount
necessary, but in no case shall driveway spacing of less than 65 feet be
permitted by the Planning Administrator or Town Engineer.
      (2)   Access point separation from intersections. All single-family and
two-family driveways shall be separated from the nearest right-of-way of an
intersection street by at least 50 feet. Driveways for all other land use shall
be separated from the nearest right-of-way of an intersecting street, according
to Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2
   Minimum Access Point Spacing from Streets and Other Intersections
             Minimum Spacing for a Full        Minimum Spacing for Driveway
Access Point Movement Driveway or Other Access Restricting Left- turns
             Point (feet)                      (channelized for right- turn-in
                                               and right-turn-out only) (feet)
Table 4.2
   Minimum Access Point Spacing from Streets and Other Intersections
                                                    Minimum Spacing for
                         Minimum Spacing for a Full Driveway Restricting Left-
Access Point             Movement Driveway or Other turns (channelized for
                         Access Point (feet)        right- turn-in and right-
                                                    turn-out only) (feet)
Along arterial or from   300                        300
   Expressway ramps   INDOT determination        INDOT determination
   Railroad crossings 100                        100
   Bridges            75                         75
   Median openings
Along arterial or from
another intersecting     300                        125
arterial
Along arterial
intersecting a collector 200                        125
or local street
Along a collector        125                        75
Along a local street or  75                         50
private road
Note: Arterials and collectors are classified in the Thoroughfare Plan. May
need to contact INDOT for site-specific determination regarding railroad
crossings along arterials.
 
         (a)   Access point spacing from intersections shall be measured from
the centerline of the driveway to the extended edge of the travel lane on the
intersecting street, as shown in Figure 4.1 unless otherwise noted.
         (b)   The minimum distance between an access point an intersecting
street shall be based on Figure 4.1 and the following.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1303.png]
 
         (c)   If the amount of lot frontage is not sufficient to meet the
above criterion, the driveway shall be constructed along the property line
farthest from the intersection to encourage future shared use, and/or a
frontage road or rear services drive shall be developed as described in §
155.05.
         (d)   For parcels on which an alternative means of access (shared
driveway, frontage road, service drive or connected parking lots) is not
feasible due to parcel size or existing adjacent development, the Planning
Administrator or Town Engineer may allow a non-channelized, full movement
driveway provided that:
            1.   The driveway is spaced no closer to the intersection than the
minimum spacing allowed for a right-turn-in, right-turn-out driveway; and
            2.   A traffic study conducted by a registered traffic engineer
shows a right-turn-in, right-turn-out driveway does not provide reasonable
access or desired safety; and
            3.   A traffic study conducted by a registered traffic engineer
provides substantial justification that the driveway operation will not create
safety problems at the adjacent intersection.
      (3)   Access alignment. To prevent left-turn conflicts, two-way driveways
shall not be across from an expressway ramp and shall be either:
         (a)   Offset in accordance with the minimum spacing standards in Table
4.2; or
         (b)   Perpendicular to the existing public street or an approved
private road and shall line up with existing or planned driveways on the
opposite side of the road wherever facing lost are not separated by a median,
unless doing so in a particular case is substantially demonstrated by a
registered traffic engineer to be unsafe.
   (E)   Driveway design and construction standards.
      (1)   Driveway or throat width.
         (a)    No single- or multi-family driveway shall have a width of less
than nine feet or more than 16 feet at the public road right-of-way. The
driveway opening, including flares, shall not be more than one and one-half
times the width of the driveway at the right-of-way line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1299.png]
 
         (b)   The typical commercial driveway design shall include one ingress
lane and one egress lane with a combined maximum throat width of 28 feet,
measured from curb face to curb face (see Figure 4.2a).
         (c)   Where exiting traffic volumes are expected to exceed 100
directional trips per peak hour, or in areas where congestion along the
arterial may create significant delays, as determined by the Planning
Administrator or Town Engineer, two exit lanes shall be required. The total
width of such a driveway shall be between 37 and 39 feet, with one 15-foot wide
ingress lane and two 11- to 12-foot wide egress lanes. A four- to ten-foot wide
landscaped median with salt tolerant species shall separate the ingress and
egress lanes.
         (d)   For access systems, which include a pair of one-way driveways,
each driveway shall be a minimum of 16 feet wide, measured perpendicularly (See
Figure 4.2c).
         (e)   The radii forming the edges of the median shall be designed to
accommodate the largest vehicle that will normally use the driveway. Where
median or boulevard driveways are located across the street from each other,
the left-turn egress lanes shall be aligned directly across from one another to
minimize left turn conflicts (see Figure 4.2d). Boulevard driveways should not
be constructed at existing or future traffic signal locations unless there is a
left-turn lane where the boulevard meets the road right-of-way. Ground or
monument signs shall not be permitted in boulevards if they would block
motorist vision or otherwise create an unsafe condition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1293.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1295.png]
 
      (2)    Restricted access driveway. Left-turn and right-turn movements on
and off roadways typically have the greatest impact on traffic flow and crash
frequency. Therefore, where driveways are to be located in a segment defined in
adopted corridor studies as having a high crash rate or significant traffic
congestion/delays, or where left-turn access is available through alternative
means of access, the Planning Administrator or Town Engineer may require
driveway design and signing which discourages certain turning movements. Where
driveways are intended to control specific left-turn and/or right-turn ingress
and egress, the design shown in Figure 4.3 shall apply. Similar designs shall
be accepted, provided that they are approved by INDOT, if applicable.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1309.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1311.png]
      (3)    Throat length or vehicle stacking/storage space. There shall be
minimum of 20 feet of throat length for entering and exiting vehicles at the
intersection of a driveway and pavement of public road or service drive, as
measured from the pavement edge. For driveways serving between 100 and 400
vehicles in the peak hour (two-way traffic volumes), the driveways shall
provide at least 60 feet of throat length. For driveways serving over 400
vehicles per peak hour (two-way traffic volume) and for all driveways
controlled by a traffic signal, adequate throat length shall be determined by a
Traffic Impact Study. In areas where significant pedestrian/bicycle travel is
expected, the ingress and egress lanes should be separated by a four- to ten-
foot wide median with pedestrian refuge area. In the absence of adequate
traffic volume data, application of the commonly used values in Table 4.3 is
appropriate.
Table 4.3
Minimum Driveway Throat Length
Land Use Building Site Minimum Throat Length (feet)
                       Collector Arterial
Table 4.3
Minimum Driveway Throat Length
Land Use            Building Site             Minimum Throat Length (feet)
                                              Collector Arterial
                    <100 units                25        50
Apartments          100 - 200 units           50        75
                    >200 units                75        125
                    <50,000 sq. ft.           25        50
                    50,000 - 100,000 sq. ft.  25        75
Office              100,000 - 200,000 sq. ft. 50        100
                    200,000 - 500,000 sq. ft. 100       150
                    >500,000 sq. ft.          125       250
Retail              <30,000 sq. ft.           25        50
                    >30,000 sq. ft.           25        75
Land Use            Building Site             Minimum Throat Length (feet)
                                              Collector Arterial
                    <250,000 sq. ft.          25        50
Shopping Center     250,000 - 500,000 sq. ft  50        75
                    500,001 - 750,000 sq. ft. 75        200
                    >750,000 sq. ft.          125       250
Supermarket         <20,000 sq. ft.           50        75
                    >20,000 sq. ft.           75        125
Restaurant          <15,000 sq. ft.           25        50
                    >15,000 sq. ft.           25        75
Drive-in Restaurant <2,000 sq. ft.            25        75
                    >2,000 sq. ft.            50        100
Motel               <150 rooms                25        75
                    >150 rooms                25        100
                    <100,000 sq. ft.          25        50
Light Industrial    100,000 - 500,000 sq. ft  50        100
                    >500,000 sq. ft.          50        200
 
      (4)   Construction standards.
         (a)   Curb radii:
            1.   Driveways shall be designed with minimum 25 foot radii where
primarily passenger vehicle traffic is expected.
            2.   For sites where truck traffic is expected, the driveways shall
be designed with a minimum 30-foot radii unless traffic analysis by a qualified
traffic engineer reveals another radii is more appropriate for the vehicles
expected to use the driveway.
         (b)   Deceleration lanes and tapers:
            1.   Where it can be demonstrated that driveway volumes are
expected to exceed 100 peak hour directional trips per hour, a right-turn
taper, deceleration lane and/or left-turn bypass lane may be required.
            2.   Where site frontage allows and a right-turn lane is warranted,
a taper between 50 and 225 feet may be required. See examples in Figure 4.5.
            3.   Where the amount of frontage precludes the construction of a
deceleration lane and taper combination entirely within the property lines of a
parcel, a request shall be made to the owner of the parcel to allow the
installation of a right-turn bay and taper which extends beyond the property
line. If permission cannot be obtained from the adjacent property owner for an
extension onto that parcel, a taper of at least 75 feet shall be constructed as
shown in Figure 4.5b.
            4.   A continuous right-turn lane may be required where driveway
spacing requirements restricts the use of consecutive turn bays and tapers, and
the Town Engineer concludes it can be constructed without being used as a thru
lane.
            5.   For driveways located along streets without an exclusive left-
turn lane, a bypass lane may be required, as illustrated in Figure 4.5c. Such a
lane shall be designed to INDOT standards.
         (c)   Acceleration lanes:
            1.   Generally, acceleration lanes are not permitted. However,
where site frontage allows, and large semi-trucks and other slow-moving
vehicles routinely access an arterial, an acceleration lane may be required in
consultation with the applicable road authority.
             2.    The acceleration lane shall be designed by a traffic
engineer to meet the needs of vehicles using it, topography, sight distance,
and other relevant factors.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1313.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1315.png]
 
            3.    Driveway s shall not be permitted within an accelerati on
lane.
         (d)     Grades and drainage:
             1.    Driveway shall be constructe d such that the grade for the
25 feet nearest the pavement edge or shoulder does not exceed (1.5%: one and
one- half foot vertical rise in 100 feet of horizontal distance) whenever
feasible. Where not feasible, grades shall conform to Figure 4.6.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1317.png]
 
            2.   Vertical curves with minimum length of 15 feet shall be
provided on driveway approaches at a change in grade of 4% or more.
            3.   Driveways shall be constructed such that drainage from
impervious areas located outside of the public right-of-way, which are
determined to be in excess of existing drainage from these areas, shall not be
discharged into the roadway drainage system absent the approval of the
responsible agency. Storm drains or culverts, if required, shall be of a size
adequate to carry the anticipated storm flow and be constructed and installed
pursuant to the specifications of the responsible road authority.
         (e)   Surface and curb construction. Commercial and all other
nonresidential driveways shall be constructed of a permanent asphalt or
concrete material sufficient to provide the bearing capacity needed to carry
the anticipated traffic loads as determined by the appropriate road authority
unless the road authority approves use of another material. Where a driveway
connects with a curbed road, it shall be paved and curbed from the edge of
pavement to either the right-of-way line or point of curvature of the radius
returns. All soil erosion and sedimentation requirements shall be met.
         (f)   Directional signs and pavement markings. To ensure smooth
traffic circulation on site, directional signs and pavement markings shall be
installed at the driveway(s) in a clearly visible location as required by the
town as part of the site plan review process and approved by INDOT, as
applicable, and shall be maintained on the permanent basis by the property
owner. Directional signs and pavement marking shall confirm to standards in the
Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (F)   Shared access. Shared access is strongly encouraged, and in some cases
may be required. When required, one or more of the following options, and the
standards of §
155.05 apply.
      (1)   Shared driveways. Sharing or joint use of a driveway by the two or
more property owners shall be encouraged. In cases where access is restricted
by spacing requirements of division (D) of this section, access point spacing
standards, a shared driveway may be the only access allowed. The shared
driveway shall be constructed along the midpoint between the two properties
unless a written easement is provided which allows traffic to travel across one
parcel to access another, and/or access the public street.
      (2)   Frontage roads. In cases where the frontage road exists, is
recommended either in the Comprehensive Plan or in an adopted corridor study,
and/or is proposed in an approved site plan for adjoining lot or parcel, access
shall be provided via such frontage road, rather than by direct connection to
the abutting arterial street.
      (3)   Rear service drives. Rear service drives shall be encouraged,
especially for locations where a connection to a side street is available. In
addition to access along the rear service drive, direct connection(s) to the
arterial street may be allowed, provided that the driveways meet the
requirement of divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (G)   Parking lot connections. Where a proposed parking lot is adjacent to
an existing parking lot of a similar use, there shall be a vehicular connection
between the two parking lots where physically feasible, as determined by the
Planning Administrator or Town Engineer. For developments adjacent to vacant
properties, the site shall be designed to provide for the future connection. A
written access easement signed by both landowners shall be presented as
evidence of the parking lot connection prior to the issuance of any final
approval.
   (H)   Access easements. Shared driveways, cross shared driveways, connected
parking lots and service drives shall be recorded as an access easement and
shall constitute a covenant running with the land. Operating and maintenance
agreements for these facilities should be recorded with the deed.
   (I)   Medians and median openings:
      (1)   The type, location and length of medians on public roads shall be
determined by the entity having jurisdiction over such roads. This
determination will be made in consultation with the Planning Administrator or
Town Engineer and will be based on existing and projected traffic conditions;
the type, size, and extent of existing and projected development and traffic
generated by development; traffic control needs; and other factors.
      (2)   The minimum spacing between median openings shall be as shown in
Table 4.4.
 
Table 4.4
Minimum Directional Median Opening Spacing
Location Directional Crossover Spacing (feet)
Urban    360
Suburban 900
Rural    1,320
 
   Note: Urban and suburban contexts are defined within the Thoroughfare Plan.
      (3)   Median openings intended to serve development must meet or exceed
the minimum median opening spacing standards and must also be justified by a
Traffic Impact Analysis approved by the entity having jurisdiction over such
roads, in consultation with the Planning Administrator or Town Engineer. The
cost for preparation of the Traffic Impact Analysis and construction of the
median opening or openings, including installation and operation of signals and
other improvements, where warranted, shall be borne by the applicant.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
§ 155.05 SERVICE DRIVES AND OTHER SHARED ACCESS STANDARDS.
   (A)   The use of shared access, parking lot connections, and service drives,
in conjunction with driveway spacing, is intended to preserve traffic flow
along major thoroughfares and minimize traffic conflicts, while retaining
reasonable access to the property. Where noted above, or where the Planning
Administrator or Town Engineer determines that restricting new access points or
reducing the number of existing access points may have a beneficial impact on
traffic operations and safety while preserving the property owner's right to
reasonable access, then access from a side street, a shared driveway, a parking
lot connection, or service drive connecting two or more properties or uses may
be required instead of more direct connection to the arterial or collector
street. However, where traffic safety would be improved, and the driveway
spacing requirements of this ordinance can be met, then direct connection to
the arterial or collector street may be allowed in addition to a required
service drive.
      (1)   Shared access, service drives, or at least a connection between
abutting land uses may be required in the following cases:
         (a)   Where the driveway spacing standards of this section cannot be
met.
         (b)   Where recommended in the Thoroughfare Plan and/or other corridor
or sub-area plans of the Comprehensive Plan.
         (c)   When the driveway could potentially interfere with traffic
operations at an existing or planned traffic signal location.
         (d)   The site is along a collector or arterial with high traffic
volumes, or along segments experiencing congestion or a relatively high number
of crashes.
         (e)   The property frontage has limited sight distance.
         (f)   The fire (or emergency services) department recommends a second
means of emergency access.
      (2)   In areas where frontage roads or rear service drives are
recommended, but adjacent properties have not yet developed, the site shall be
designed to accommodate a future road/facility adhering to the standards of
this chapter. The Planning Administrator or Town Engineer may approve temporary
access points where a continuous service drive is not yet available and an
irrevocable letter of credit, performance bond, or escrow is accepted to assure
elimination of temporary access when the service road is constructed. (See §
155.06).
   (B)   Notwithstanding the requirements of the Hancock County, Indiana
Subdivision Control Regulations, the standards for all the services drives
shall be as follows.
      (1)   Site plan review. The Planning Administrator or Town Engineer shall
review and approve all service drives to ensure safe and adequate continuity of
the service drive between contiguous parcels as part of the site plan review
process.
      (2)   Front and rear service drives. A front or rear service drive may be
established on property that abuts only one public road. The design of a
service road shall conform with national design guideline such as those
identified in the Transportation Research Board (TRB) National Access
Management Manual, the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials (AASHTO) "Green Book," and National Cooperative Highway Research
Program (NCHRP) Report 348: Access Management Guideline to Activity Centers and
Report 420: Impact of Access Management Techniques.
      (3)   Location. Service roads shall generally be parallel to the front
property line and may be located either in front of, or behind, principal
buildings and may be placed in required yards. In considering the most
appropriate alignment for a service road, the Planning Administrator or Town
Engineer shall consider the setbacks of existing and/or proposed buildings and
anticipated traffic flow for the site.
      (4)   Width and construction material. A service drive shall be within an
access easement permitting traffic circulation between properties. The easement
shall be recorded with the County Recorder. This easement shall be at least 40
feet wide. A service drive shall have a minimum pavement width of 26 feet,
measured curb-face to curb-face with an approach width of 36 feet at
intersections. The service drive shall be constructed of a paved surface
material that is resistant to erosion and shall meet the appropriate road
authority standards for base and thickness of asphalt or concrete, unless the
community has more restrictive standards.
      (5)    Snow storage and landscaping area. Frontage roads shall have a
minimum setback of 30 feet from the right-of-way, with a minimum of 60 feet of
storage at intersection for entering and exiting vehicles as measured from the
pavement edge (See Figure 5.1a).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1319.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1321.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1323.png]
 
      (6)    Distance from intersection or service drives. Frontage road and
service drive intersections at the collector or arterial street shall be
designed according to the same minimum standards as described for driveways in
§
155.04(D)(2).
      (7)    Driveway entrance. The Planning Administrator or Town Engineer
shall approve the location of all accesses to the service drive, based on the
driveway spacing standards of this chapter. Access to the service drive shall
be located so that there is no undue interference with the free movement of
service drive and emergency vehicle traffic, where there is safe sight
distance, and where there is a safe driveway grade as established by the
applicable road authority.
      (8)   Driveway radii. All driveway radii shall be concrete curbs and
conform to the requirements of §
155.04 (E)(4).
      (9)   Acceleration lanes and tapers. The design of the driveway,
acceleration, deceleration or taper shall conform to requirement of §
155.04(E)(4).
      (10)   Elevation. The elevation of a service drive shall be uniform or
gently sloping between adjacent properties.
      (11)   Service drive maintenance. No service drive shall be established
on existing public right-of-way. The service drive shall be a public street (if
dedicated to and accepted by the public) or a private road maintained by the
adjoining property owners it serves who shall enter into a formal agreement for
the joint maintenance of the service drive. The agreement shall also specify
who is responsible for enforcing speed limits, parking and related vehicular
activity on service drive. The agreement shall be approved by the Town Attorney
and recorded with deed of each property it serves by the County Recorder. If
the service drive and charge back the costs directly or by special assessment
to the benefiting landowners if they fail to properly maintain a service drive.
      (12)   Parking areas. All separate parking areas (i.e. those that do not
use joint parking cross access) shall have no more than one access point or
driveway to the service drive.
      (13)   Parking. The service road is intended to be used exclusively for
circulation, not as a parking, loading, or unloading aisle. Parking shall be
prohibited along two-way frontage roads and services drives that are
constructed at the minimum width (see division (B)(4) above). One-way roads or
two-way roads designed with additional width for parallel parking may be
allowed if it can be demonstrated through a traffic study that on-street
parking will not significantly affect the capacity, safety, or operation of the
frontage road or service drive. The Planning Administrator or Town Engineer may
require the posting of "No Parking" signs along the service road. As a
condition to site plan approval, the Planning Administrator or Town Engineer
may permit temporary parking in the easement area where a continuous service
road is not yet available, provided that the layout allows removal of the
parking in the future to allow extension of the service road.
      (14)   Directional signs and pavement markings. Pavement markings may be
required to help promote safety and efficient circulation. The property owner
shall be required to maintain all pavement markings. All directional signs and
pavement markings along the service drive shall conform to the current Indiana
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
      (15)   Pedestrian and bicycle access. Separate, safe access for
pedestrians and bicycles shall be provided on a sidewalk or paved path that
generally parallels the service drive unless alternate and comparable
facilities are approved by the Planning Administrator or Town Engineer.
      (16)   Number of lots or dwellings served. No more than 25 lots or
dwelling units may gain access from a service drive to a single public street.
      (17)   Service drive signs. All new public and private service drives
shall have a designated name on a sign meeting town standards.
      (18)   In the case of expansion, alteration or redesign of existing
development where it can be demonstrated that pre-existing conditions prohibit
installation of a frontage road or a service drive in accordance with the
aforementioned standards, the Planning Administrator or Town Engineer shall
have the authority to allow and/or require alternative cross access between
adjacent parking areas through the interconnection of the main circulation
aisles. Under these conditions, the aisles serving the parking stalls shall be
aligned perpendicularly to the access aisle, as shown in the Figure 5.1c, with
islands, curbing, and/or signage to further delineate the edges of the route to
be used by through traffic.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
§ 155.06 TEMPORARY ACCESS PERMITS.
   (A)   A temporary access permit may be conditionally issued to a property
included in an adopted corridor or access management plan that programs road
improvements and installation of service drives and shared driveways that would
eliminate the need for the temporary driveway.
   (B)   Conditions may be included in the temporary access permit including
but not limited to, a limitation on development intensity on the site until
adjoining parcels develop which can provide a shared driveway, shared access
via a service drive, and/or cross parking lot connection consistent with the
requirements of §
155.05.
   (C)   A temporary access permit shall expire when the use of the site for
which the temporary access permit was granted has ceased for 12 months or more,
or the use of the site or the driveway has changed such that the use of the
driveway has increased from its initial level at least 50%.
   (D)   A site plan for property that cannot meet the access requirement of §
155.05, nor the waiver standards in §
155.08, and has no alternative means of reasonable access to the public road
system may be issued a temporary access permit. When adjoining parcels develop
which can provide a shared driveway, shared access via a service drive or a
cross parking lot connection, the temporary access permit shall be rescinded
and an application for an access permit consistent with the requirements of §
155.05 shall be required.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
§ 155.07 NONCONFORMING DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Driveways that do not conform to the regulations in this chapter, and
were constructed before the effective date of this chapter, shall be considered
legal nonconforming driveways.
   (B)   Loss of legal nonconforming status results when a nonconforming
driveway ceases to be used for its intended purpose as shown on the approved
site plan, or a plot plan, for a period of 12 months or more. Any reuse of the
driveway may only take place after driveway conforms to all aspects of this
chapter.
   (C)   Legal nonconforming driveways may remain in use until such time as the
use of driveway or property is changed or expanded in number of vehicle trips
per day or in the type of vehicles using the driveway (such as many more
trucks) in such a way that impact the design of the driveway. At this time, the
driveway shall be required to conform to all aspects of the chapter.
   (D)   When the owner of a property with an existing, nonconforming driveway
(s) applies for a permit to upgrade or change the use of the property, the
Planning Administrator or Town Engineer will determine whether it is necessary
and appropriate to retrofit the existing driveway or driveways.
      (1)   The property owner may be required to establish a retrofit plan.
The objectives of the retrofit plan will be to minimize the traffic and safety
impacts of development by bringing the number, spacing, location, and design of
driveways into conformance with the standards and requirements of this chapter,
to the extent possible without imposing unnecessary hardship on the property
owner. The retrofit plan may include:
         (a)   Elimination of driveways;
         (b)   Realignment or relocation of driveways;
         (c)   Provision of shared driveways and/or cross parking lot
connection;
         (d)   Access by means of a service drive;
         (e)   Restriction of vehicle movements (e.g. elimination of left-turns
in and out);
         (f)   Relocation of parking;
         (g)   Traffic demand management (e.g. a reduction in peak hour trips);
         (h)   Signalization; or
         (i)   Such other changes as may enhance traffic safety.
      (2)   The requirements of the retrofit plan shall be incorporated as
conditions to the permit for the change or upgrade of use and the property
owner shall be responsible for the retrofit.
   (E)   Driveways that do not conform to the regulations in this chapter and
have been constructed after its adoption shall be considered illegal driveways.
   (F)   Illegal driveways are a violation of this chapter. The property owner
shall be issued a violation notice that may include closing off the driveway
until any nonconforming aspects of the driveway are corrected. Driveways
constructed in illegal locations shall be immediately closed upon detection and
all evidence of the driveway removed from the right-of-way and site on which it
is located. The costs of such removal shall be borne by the property owner.
   (G)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the repair, improvement, or
modernization of lawful nonconforming driveways, provided it is done consistent
with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
§ 155.08 WAIVERS.
   (A)   The granting of waivers shall be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of these regulations and shall not be considered until every feasible
option for meeting access standards is explored. Under no circumstances shall a
waiver be granted, unless not granting the waiver would deny all reasonable
access, endanger public health, welfare or safety, or cause an exceptional and
undue hardship on the applicant. No waiver shall be granted where such hardship
is self-created.
   (B)   Any applicant for access approval under the provisions of this chapter
may apply for a waiver of its standards if the applicant cannot meet one or
more of the standards according to the procedures provided below:
      (1)   For waivers on properties involving land uses with less than 500
vehicle trips per day (based on rates published in the Trip Generation Manual
of the Institute of Transportation Engineers): Where the standards in this
chapter cannot be met, suitable alternatives, substantially achieving the
intent of the chapter may be accepted by the Planning Administrator or Town
Engineer, provided that all of the following apply:
         (a)   The use has insufficient size to meet the dimensional standards;
         (b)   Adjacent development renders adherence to these standards
economically unfeasible;
         (c)   There is no other reasonable access due to topographic or other
considerations;
         (d)   The standards in this chapter shall be applied to be the maximum
extent feasible.
      (2)   For waivers on properties involving land uses with more than 500
vehicle trips per day (based on the rates published in the Trip Generation
Manual of the Institute of Transportation Engineers):
During site plan review the Planning Administrator or Town Engineer shall have
the authority to waive or otherwise modify the standards of this chapter
following an analysis of suitable alternatives documented by a registered
traffic engineer and substantially achieving the intent of this chapter
provided all of the following apply:
         (a)   Access via a shared driveway or front or rear service drive is
not possible due to the presence of existing buildings or topographic
conditions;
         (b)   Roadway improvements (such as the addition of a traffic signal,
a center turn lane or bypass lane) will be made to improve overall traffic
operations prior to project completion, or occupancy of the building;
         (c)   The use involves the redesign of an existing development or a
new use that will generate less traffic than the previous use;
         (d)   The proposed location and design is supported by INDOT, as
applicable, as an acceptable design under the circumstances.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
§ 155.09 FEES IN ESCROW FOR PROFESSIONAL REVIEWS.
   Any application for rezoning, subdivision approval, location improvement
permit, site plan approval, special use permit, planned unit development,
variance, or other use or activity requiring a permit under this chapter above
the following threshold, may also require the deposit of fees to be held in
escrow in the name of the applicant. An escrow fee may be required by either
the Planning Administrator or Town Engineer for any project which requires a
traffic impact study under §
155.02, or which has more than 20 dwelling units, or more than 15,000 square
feet of enclosed space, or which requires more than 20 parking spaces. An
escrow fee may be required to obtain a professional review of any other project
which may, in the opinion of the Planning Administrator or Town Engineer,
create an identifiable and potentially negative impact on public roads, other
infrastructure or services, or on adjacent properties, and because of which,
professional input is desired before a decision to approve, deny, or approve
with conditions is made.
   (A)   The escrow shall be used to pay professional review expenses of
engineers, community planners, and any other professionals whose expertise the
town values to review the proposed application and/or site plan of an
applicant. Professional review will result in a report to the town indicating
the extent of conformance or nonconformance with this chapter and to identify
any problems that may create a threat to the health, safety or general welfare
of the public. Mitigation measures or alterations to a proposed design may be
identified where they would serve to lessen or eliminate identified impacts.
The applicant will receive a copy of any professional review hired by the town
and a copy of the statement of expenses for the professional services rendered,
if requested.
   (B)   No application for which an escrow fee is required will be processed
until the escrow fee is deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer. The amount of the
escrow fee shall be established based on an estimate of the cost of the
services to be rendered by the professionals contacted by the Planning
Administrator or Town Engineer.
   (C)   If actual professional review costs exceed the amount of an escrow,
the applicant shall pay the balance due prior to receipt of any approval or
permit issued by the town in response to the applicant's request. Any unused
fee collected in escrow shall be promptly returned to the applicant once a
final determination on an application has been made or the applicant withdraws
the request and expenses have not yet been incurred.
   (D)   Disputes on the costs of professional reviews may be resolved by an
arbitrator mutually satisfactory to both parties.
(Ord. 2018-2A, passed 2-20-18)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Title
   
156.002   Authority
   
156.003   Purpose
   
156.004   Definitions
   
156.005   Jurisdiction
   
156.006   Classification and compliance
   
156.007   Reserved
   
156.008   Technical Review Committee
   
156.009   Waiver of requirements
Minor Subdivisions
   
156.020   Submission of plat
   
156.021   Review procedure of Technical Review Committee
   
156.022   Reserved
   
156.023   Plan Commission procedure
Major Subdivisions; Primary Plat
   
156.035   Concept plan
   
156.036   Submission of primary plat
   
156.037   Primary plat review procedure
Major Subdivisions; Secondary Plat
   
156.050   General provisions
   
156.051   Phasing
   
156.052   Secondary plat
   
156.053   Financial guarantees
   
156.054   Bond funds
   
156.055   Completion affidavit
   
156.056   Review procedure of Technical Review Committee
Design Principles and Standards
   
156.070   General provisions
   
156.071   Geometric street standards
   
156.072   General street standards and requirements
   
156.073   Block standards
   
156.074   Lot standards
   
156.075   Easements
   
156.076   Commercial and industrial subdivisions
   
156.077   Reserved
   
156.078   Ponds and lakes
Improvements and Installations
   
156.090   General provisions
   
156.091   Streets
   
156.092   Drainage and sanitary sewage disposal
   
156.093   Water system
   
156.094   Monuments and markers
   
156.095   Reserved
   
156.096   Erosion control
   
156.097   Hydrants
   
156.098   Culverts; private drives
   
156.099   Reserved
Modifications and Exceptions
   
156.110   Intent
Administration
   
156.120   Amendment
   
156.121   Enforcement
   
156.122   Recording of plats
   
156.123   Effect
   
156.124   Appeal
   
156.125   Violations
   
Appendix A: Survey Certification
   
Appendix B: Deed of Dedication
   
Appendix BB: Right to Farm Deed Restriction
   
Appendix C: Certificate of Ownership; Additional Certification if Property
under Trusteeship
   
Appendix D: Acceptance of Dedications
   
Appendix E: Director & Plan Commission Approval
   
Appendix F: Performance Bond Agreement Form
   
Appendix G: Performance Bond Form
   
Appendix H: Performance Bond Completion Affidavit
   
Appendix I: Release of Performance Bond
   
Appendix J: Reserved
   
Appendix K: Plan Commission Technical Review Committee Approval Certificate
   
Appendix L: Centerline offsets
   
Appendix M: Intersection detail
   
Appendix N: Centerline deflection
   
Appendix O: Reverse curve tangent
   
Appendix P: Pipe underdrain—typical installation
   
Appendix Q: Subdivision entrance—deceleration, acceleration and passing blister
lanes
   
Appendix R: Typical concrete curb and gutter
   
Appendix S: Waiver of Lien and Affidavit of Payment Form
   
Appendix T: Maintenance Bond Agreement Form
   
Appendix U: Maintenance Bond Form
   
Appendix V: Release of Maintenance Bond
   
Appendix W: Secondary Plat Sign-Off List
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Subdivision Control
Ordinance of the Town of Fortville, Indiana.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter was originally adopted pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4, of the State
General Assembly, and all amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.003 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To assist the orderly and efficient development of the town;
   (B)   To provide for the coordination of new thoroughfares with existing and
planned thoroughfares;
   (C)   To promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of
the town;
   (D)   To ensure the coordination with and extension of community facilities
and utilities; and
   (E)   To secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing
uniform procedures and standards.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTED SCALES. One inch equals 50 feet, one inch equals 100 feet, and/or
one inch equals 200 feet.
   AGRICULTURAL PURPOSE. The use of a tract of land for agricultural purposes
only, including farming, dairying, pasturing, agriculture, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry.
   APPARENT RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      (1)   All that area lying adjacent to and including the public road which
is being used and occupied by the public and public utilities, and the area of
maintenance by town, county, or state government. The limits of the APPARENT
RIGHT-OF-WAY shall be defined as the greater of any of the following:
         (a)   The existing fence of long standing;
         (b)   The edge of existing utilities;
         (c)   Field occupation lines, meaning plowed or tilled ground;
         (d)   Existing woody vegetation, which may signify evidence of prior
fence location; or
         (e)   If none of the above exists, the edge of the traveled road
surface, and the adjacent area of maintenance by town, county, or state
government.
      (2)   The APPARENT RIGHT-OF-WAY is subordinate to dedicated rights-of-way
of record.
   BUILDING LINE. A line drawn parallel to a lot line at a distance therefrom
equal to the depth of the minimum required yard for the zone in which the lot
is located, as established by the Zoning Ordinance (Chapter 152).
   COMMISSION. Town of Fortville Advisory Plan Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A composite of the mapped and written proposals
recommending the physical development of the town which has been duly adopted
by the Town Council.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN(S). The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat
and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed
for the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of this chapter as a
condition of approval of the plan.
   CROSS WALKWAY. A strip of land dedicated to public use which is reserved
across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
   DIRECTOR. The town’s Director of Planning.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
   EROSION CONTROL PLANS. Written description and site of pertinent information
concerning erosion control measures, as defined in the General Permit Related
to Stormwater Runoff Associated with Construction Activities, as provided for
in 327 I.A.C. 15-5.
   FEASIBILITY REPORT. A written report prepared by a professional engineer or
land surveyor pertaining to the suitability of the site for various types of
water and sewer systems, for drainage retention or dispersion, and the subsoil
conditions for various methods of street construction.
   INCIDENTAL IMPROVEMENT(S). A physical improvement, facility, or fixture
together with its associated public right-of-way limited to: asphalt surfacing,
streetlights, sidewalks, multi-use paths, monuments and markers, grouting of
pipe, landscaping, and/or permanent seeding.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land separated from other parcels or portions by
a description as on a subdivision, or record of survey map, or by metes and
bounds for purpose of sale, lease, or separate use. In computing the number of
lots in a subdivision, any portion remaining to the owner and not intended for
sale shall, nevertheless, be considered a LOT.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot, other than a corner lot, which fronts on two
streets.
   NON ACCESS EASEMENT. Public easement along a public right-of-way across
which access to the property is not permitted.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership or
corporation, having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided, to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under
this chapter.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any guarantee which may be accepted in lieu of a
requirement that certain improvements be made before the town approves the
secondary plat, including by way of illustration but not limitation,
performance bonds, escrow agreements, deposit agreements, and other similar
collateral or surety arrangements approved as valid and enforceable by the
county.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A development which:
      (1)   Permits flexibility in large scale development through land use
controls that foster good environmental design without violating the intent of
this chapter;
      (2)   Permits a variety of housing accommodations including single-
family, two-family or multi-family;
      (3)   Permits the grouping and preservation of open space, recreation
areas, school sites and lands for other public uses;
      (4)   Permits the orderly physical and aesthetic relationship of
residential and commercial uses; and
      (5)   Permits the development of the area rather than the individual lot
arrangement. No particular development shall necessarily include all the land
uses set forth above.
   PRIMARY PLAT. The map and supporting information indicating the proposed
layout of the subdivision which is presented to the Commission for
consideration and approval in accordance with these regulations.
   PRIVATE DRIVE OR STREET. The means of vehicular access to the public road or
street system.
   RESERVE STRIP. An area of land adjacent to a public right-of-way which is
retained in ownership by the subdivider for the purpose of denying access to
the adjacent land.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land appropriated for public use as a street,
highway, driveway, alley or walkway or for any drainage or public utility
purpose or other similar uses.
   SECONDARY PLAT. A drawing, in final form, showing the subdivider’s
subdivision plan and containing all the information required to be presented to
the Plan Commission for approval and which, if approved, may be duly filed or
recorded by the applicant in the office of the County Recorder.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL REPORT. A report of the suitability of the soil for on-lot
septic systems, based on a mechanical analysis, soil classification, or other
methods as determined acceptable by the Commission and the County Health
Department.
   SKETCH PLAN. A sketch plan of a proposed subdivision used to show the Plan
Commission the location, proposed street and lot layout, and many other
significant features of the proposed subdivision.
   STREET. The space or area between the lot lines, abutting upon a right-of-
way and designed as a way for vehicular traffic whether designated as an alley,
street, highway, throughway, freeway, expressway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, or however otherwise designated, and which shall include but not
be limited to those illustrated in the Comprehensive Plan or Thoroughfare Plan.
For the purpose of this chapter, STREET shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   ALLEY. A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
      (2)   ARTERIALS. See definition in Thoroughfare Plan.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A local road with only one outlet, having a
paved, circular turnaround area at the closed end.
      (4)   LOCAL ROADS. See definition in Thoroughfare Plan.
      (5)   LOCAL SUBDIVISION STREETS. Low capacity and low speed streets
within major subdivisions whose function is to provide direct access to homes
and property.
      (6)   MAJOR COLLECTOR HIGHWAYS. Highways having less regional importance
than the arterial roads and more town significance. They are medium capacity
highways moving traffic at relatively fast rates of speed. They include both
state designated routes and county roads. MAJOR COLLECTOR HIGHWAYS provide two
traffic lanes.
      (7)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. Local roads which are parallel to and
adjacent to arterial streets and highways, and which provide access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
      (8)   MINOR COLLECTOR ROADS. Moderate capacity thoroughfares designed to
accommodate relatively low speed traffic. They should, however, provide a
smooth flow of traffic. Two moving lanes, unseparated, but wider than local
road lanes are required.
   SUBDIVIDER. The registered owner or the authorized agent of the registered
owner of a subdivision being responsible for preparing and recording the plat
of the subdivision and for carrying out all appropriate requirements outlined
in these regulations for the subdividing of land.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots, parcels,
sites, units, plats or interests for the purpose of offer, sale, lease or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms, and conditions, including re-subdivision. SUBDIVISION includes the
division of land zoned for residential and nonresidential uses, whether by
deed, metes and bounds description, devise, intestacy, lease, map, plat, or
other recorded instrument. The following kinds of division of existing parcels
of land are herein called exempt divisions. These divisions are exempt from the
platting provisions of this chapter. Exempt division must be one of the
following types of division:
         (a)   A division of land into two or more tracts, all of which are at
least ten acres in size;
         (b)   A division of land for the sale or exchange of tracts to correct
errors in an existing legal description, provided that no additional building
sites other than for accessory buildings are created by the division;
         (c)   A division of land pursuant to an allocation of land in the
settlement of a decedent’s estate or a court decree for the distribution of
property;
         (d)   A division of land for the acquisition of street right-of-way,
or easement;
         (e)   A division of land for the sale or exchange of additional tracts
between adjoining land owners, provided that no additional building sites other
than for accessory buildings are created by the division; and/or
         (f)   A division of land into cemetery plats for the purpose of burial
of corpses.
      (2)   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision not classified as a minor
subdivision, including but not limited to subdivisions of four or more lots, or
any size subdivision requiring any new street or extension of local
governmental facilities or the creation of any public improvements.
      (3)   MINOR SUBDIVISION. The division of a single lot, tract or parcel of
land, or part thereof, into not more than three lots, tracts or parcels of
land, including the remainder of the original tract, any one of which is less
than ten acres, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership. A MINOR SUBDIVISION shall not involve any new street or extension of
local governmental facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
   TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. A Plan Commission subcommittee, including
persons with technical knowledge of various town, county, state, and federal
regulations and standards regarding development, appointed by the Plan
Commission to form a COMMITTEE responsible for working with developers in
reviewing the technical aspects of subdivision plans and other major
development projects and making technical findings for the Plan Commission for
their consideration in approving subdivision
and development plans. The COMMITTEE shall be composed of the following
individuals, or their representative:
      (1)   Planning Director;
      (2)   County Surveyor;
      (3)   Public Works Director (Town Manager);
      (4)   Town engineering consultant (on an as-needed basis);
      (5)   Vernon Township Fire Marshal;
      (6)   Electricity company (Duke Energy);
      (7)   Electricity company (Ninestar);
      (8)   Natural gas company (CenterPoint Energy/Vectren);
      (9)   Any other persons as the Plan Commission or town staff deems
appropriate.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.005 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all incorporated land within the town limits in
accordance with Chapter 174, Acts of 1947, of the State General Assembly, and
all amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.006 CLASSIFICATION AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Plat required. All land to be divided shall be categorized and platted
as either a minor subdivision or major subdivision, consistent with the
definitions in §
156.004.
   (B)   Building permit. No lot in a subdivision shall be sold, no permit
shall be issued to erect any building upon land in a subdivision, and no
building shall be erected in a subdivision unless and until:
      (1)   A final subdivision plat has been approved and recorded; and
      (2)   The improvements required by the Town Council in connection
therewith have either been constructed or guaranteed, as herein provided.
   (C)   The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) shall not apply to accessory
structures or building alterations.
   (D)   Right-to-farm deed restriction. A deed restriction shall be included
on each subdivision plat and lot indicating the right to farm of adjoining
agricultural real estate as set out in Appendix BB.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.007 RESERVED.
§ 156.008 TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   A Technical Review Committee including persons with technical
knowledge of various town, county, state and federal regulations and standards
regarding development may be appointed by the Plan Commission to review the
technical aspects of subdivision plans and other major development projects and
make technical findings for the Plan Commission for their consideration in
approving subdivision and development plans.
   (B)   The Committee shall be composed of the following individuals or their
representative:
      (1)   Planning Director;
      (2)   County Surveyor;
      (3)   Public Works Director (Town Manager);
      (4)   Town engineering consultant (on an as-needed basis);
      (5)   Vernon Township Fire Marshal;
      (6)   Electricity company (Duke Energy);
      (7)   Electricity company (Ninestar);
      (8)   Natural gas company (CenterPoint Energy/Vectren);
      (9)   Any other persons as the Plan Commission or town staff deems
appropriate.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.009 WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS.
   The Plan Commission is authorized to waive any or all requirements of this
chapter when a literal enforcement of the chapter would result in unnecessary
hardship and when the waiver will not be contrary to the public interest.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 156.020 SUBMISSION OF PLAT.
   (A)   A subdivider shall submit to the town an application and an
accompanying plat for a minor subdivision. The plat shall be based on a
boundary survey conforming to the Minimum Standards for the Competent Practice
of Land Surveying administered by the State Board of Registration for Land
Surveyors, as provided for in 865 I.A.C. 1-12, and drawn on reproducible
material, 18 inches by 18 inches, at an accepted scale and five prints of the
plat showing:
      (1)   The legal description of the minor subdivision;
      (2)   Lot numbers;
      (3)   Easements;
      (4)   The right-of-way line;
      (5)   The land surveyor’s certification and seal;
      (6)   The designated right-of-way in compliance with the Comprehensive
Plan;
      (7)   The owner’s certification;
      (8)   The notary seal;
      (9)   The scale, graphic scale, northpoint, and date;
      (10)   Building setback lines;
      (11)   Monuments and markers, set or found;
      (12)   The signature block in an approved form to be signed by the
appropriate agencies prior to recording;
      (13)   Acreage information as follows:
         (a)   Lot 1 =         acres;
         (b)   Lot 2 =         acres;
         (c)   Dedicated R/W lot 1 =         acres; and
         (d)   Dedicated R/W lot 2 =         acres.
      (14)   Deed of Dedication as set forth in Appendix B.
      (15)   A permanent easement reserved for locating a secondary (back-up)
septic system.
      (16)   Statement for drainage easements per Stormwater Ordinance (Chapter
53).
      (17)   Area map.
      (18)   Flood zone statement including FIRM map number and date.
      (19)   Redact statement of social security information.
      (20)   Covenants.
      (21)   A title including the name of the minor subdivision, section,
township, range, civil township and county.
   (B)   In addition to the minor plat, the subdivider shall submit one copy of
the supporting data drawn at an accepted scale showing:
      (1)   The legal description and tract boundary drawing of the entire
property which is being subdivided;
      (2)   Significant physical and topography features of the tract;
      (3)   The name of the owners of adjoining unsubdivided property;
      (4)   If the property is adjacent to land presently being developed, a
proposed street and lot arrangement of the entire tract with the minor
subdivision lots clearly identified;
      (5)   The adjoining road and the nearest major intersection;
      (6)   The name and address of the subdivider;
      (7)   The type of sewage disposal system;
      (8)   Proposed drainage, following the Stormwater Drainage, Erosion, and
Sediment Control Regulations (Chapter 53);
      (9)   If the disturbed area equals five acres or more, supply data
pursuant to §
156.096;
      (10)   Show wetland delineation, if any;
      (11)   Proposed location of residences with finished floor elevation at a
minimum of two feet above adjacent road and distances to the property lines;
      (12)   Proposed or present driveway location;
      (13)   Show a proposed outlet whether it be an eight inch tile (minimum),
natural waterway, or regulated drain;
      (14)   Field verified elevations, including house location, pipe invert
and outlet as well as benchmark used for those elevations; and
      (15)   Erosion control including temporary driveway or construction
entrance, silt fence, permanent and temporary seeding with timelines,
undisturbed area, stockpile areas marked and protected, and the responsible
person with contact phone number.
   (C)   The submission of the minor subdivision plat shall be accompanied by a
fee set by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.021 REVIEW PROCEDURE OF TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a minor subdivision application, the Planning Director
or designee shall schedule a meeting of the Technical Review Committee to
review the minor plat and determine whether the following conditions have been
satisfied:
      (1)   The subdivision will not impede the normal and orderly development
of improvements of the parcel or surrounding properties;
      (2)   Necessary and adequate utilities and drainage facilities have been
or are being provided;
      (3)   Adequate measures will be taken to provide ingress and egress to
the remainder of the parcel and surrounding properties;
      (4)   The subdivision will not be detrimental to or endanger the public
health, safety, or general welfare.
   (B)   If the Technical Review Committee finds that the proposed minor
subdivision meets all the requirements as set forth in this subchapter and any
applicable provisions of §§
156.070 through
156.077 and
156.090 through
156.098, they shall recommend approval of the plat and certify their
recommendation to the Plat Committee for consideration.
   (C)   If the Technical Review Committee finds that the proposed subdivision
does not meet all the requirements as set forth in this subchapter or in §§
156.070 through
156.077 and
156.090 through
156.098, they shall set forth their reasons in writing, provide the subdivider
with a copy of their findings and certify a copy of their findings to the Plan
Commission.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.022 RESERVED.
§ 156.023 PLAN COMMISSION PROCEDURE.
   Following review of a minor subdivision by the Technical Review Committee,
the application shall be referred to the Plan Commission for review and action.
Upon finding that the minor subdivision does not involve opening a new public
way and that it complies in all other respects with this chapter and the Zoning
Ordinance (
Chapter 152), the Plan Commission may grant approval upon conducting a public
hearing in accordance with the Indiana Code. The Chairman of the Planning
Commission and Planning Director shall sign a certificate granting secondary
approval of the minor plat, which shall be on the plat. The applicant shall
record the plat with the County Recorder within 90 days. If not recorded within
this time, the approval shall be null and void unless renewed.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS; PRIMARY PLAT
§ 155.035 CONCEPT PLAN.
   Prior to the submission of a major subdivision plat, the subdivider is
encouraged to submit a concept plan and consult informally with the town staff.
This will enable the subdivider to become familiar with the general
requirements and conditions which might affect the subdivision and thus avoid
unnecessary revisions. The concept plan should be in tentative form with
sufficient detail for review and comments.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 155.036 SUBMISSION OF PRIMARY PLAT.
   In accordance with the town’s application submittal calendar, the subdivider
shall submit a written application for primary plat approval together with the
following:
   (A)   A primary plat based on a survey conforming to the Minimum Standards
for the Competent Practices of Land Surveying administered by the Indiana State
Board of Registration for Land Surveyors, or as provided for in 865 I.A.C. 1-
12. The primary plat shall be drawn on 24 inches by 36 inches materials at an
accepted scale and encompassing all contiguous parcels of property owned by or
under the control of the subdivider and showing the following:
      (1)   The proposed name for the subdivision;
      (2)   The location by civil township, section, township and range, or by
other legal description;
      (3)   The name and address of the subdivider;
      (4)   The name, address and registration number of the surveyor;
      (5)   The scale, northpoint and date;
      (6)   The boundary line of the subdivision;
      (7)   The boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided or subdivided
land, showing ownership where possible;
      (8)   Existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and adjacent tracts;
      (9)   Topographic contours at a minimum of two-foot intervals;
      (10)   All existing permanent features either natural or manmade that may
influence the design of the subdivision, such as watercourses, tree groves,
swamps, sewers, water mains, culverts, utility lines, and fire hydrants. Where
underground utilities exist within or adjacent to the tract, the approximate
location, pipe size, and direction of flow shall be indicated;
      (11)   The location, width, and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and
other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, permanent
easements, and section and corporate lines on or within 200 feet of the
subdivision;
      (12)   The layout of all proposed and existing lots with appropriate
dimensions including the minimum lot areas in square feet for the smallest lot
(s) in the subdivision and the proposed front yard setback lines;
      (13)   The layout of streets, widths of rights-of-ways, proposed cross
sections or roadways, and also the widths of cross-walkways and easements;
      (14)   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use or set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision;
      (15)   The apparent right-of-way; and
      (16)   Flood zone statement with FIRM map number and date.
   (B)   A drainage plan in conformance with the county drainage regulations
showing:
      (1)   Natural watercourses, marshes, and the like;
      (2)   Existing drainage facilities, culverts and the like; and
      (3)   The proposed drainage plan for the subdivision and analysis of
existing drainage facilities to the nearest watercourse showing culverts,
retention ponds, and the like.
      (4)   Submittal must meet the requirements of Chapter 53 (Stormwater
Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control Regulations).
   (C)   A feasibility report in conformance with the town’s sewage disposal
and drainage regulations including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   The feasibility of connecting to an existing sewerage system and
water supply. This portion of the study shall include the distance to the
nearest public sewer, its capacity and present load, and its capacity to handle
the additional sewage load created by the subdivision. The same information
shall be submitted for water supply;
      (2)   If connection to an existing sewerage or water system is not
feasible, the feasibility of constructing a community sewerage and water system
shall be studied. The study shall give consideration to treatment works,
receiving streams, lagoons and the like, and available water supplies;
      (3)   If connection to a public or a private sewerage system is not
feasible, a report on the feasibility of on-lot sewage disposal in conformance
with the town’s sewage disposal and drainage regulations;
      (4)   A study of the stormwater drainage of the area showing a method of
dispersion or retention and the adequacy of downstream facilities. This study
shall give consideration to both water entering the subdivision from adjacent
land and water within the boundaries of the subdivision; and
      (5)   A preliminary report on the type(s) of street construction based on
the specifications outlined in §§
156.090 through
156.098.
   (D)   The submission of the primary plat shall be accompanied by a fee as
established by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 155.037 PRIMARY PLAT REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for primary plat approval, town staff
shall review the application for technical conformity with the standards fixed
in this chapter. Staff shall announce the date for a hearing before the Plan
Commission, and shall provide for notice in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-706.
After the staff has announced a date for a hearing before the Plan Commission,
it shall:
      (1)   Notify the applicant in writing;
      (2)   Give notice of the hearing by publication in accordance with I.C.
5-3-1; and
      (3)   Provide for due notice to interested parties at least ten days
before the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The Technical Review Committee shall review the primary plat and make
a report to the Commission.
      (1)   If the Technical Review Committee finds that the primary plat has
been prepared in accordance with the terms of this chapter, they shall forward
a report so stating to the Commission for consideration.
      (2)   If the Technical Review Committee finds that the primary plat has
not been prepared in accordance with the terms of this chapter, they shall
return the plat to the subdivider with a written specification of the items of
nonconformance and shall submit a copy of the same to the Commission.
   (C)   If, after the hearing, the Plan Commission determines that the
application and plat comply with the standards in the subdivision control this
chapter, it shall make written findings and a decision granting primary
approval to the plat. As a condition of primary approval, the commission may
specify:
      (1)   The manner in which public ways shall be laid out, graded and
improved;
      (2)   A provision for water, sewage, and other utility services;
      (3)   A provision for lot size, number and location;
      (4)   A provision for drainage design; and
      (5)   A provision for other services, as specified in this chapter.
   (D)   If, after the hearing, the Plan Commission disapproves the plat, it
shall make written findings that set forth its reasons and a decision denying
primary approval. The Commission may also refer a plat back to the Technical
Review Committee for review or study on a specific technical matter.
   (E)   Approval of a primary plat shall not constitute approval of a
secondary plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression of approval to the
layout submitted on the primary plat as a guide to the preparation of the
secondary plat and shall permit the subdivider to proceed with construction or
permanent improvements for which designs and specifications shall have been
approved by the appropriate agencies. Approval of the primary plat will
terminate two years after the date of approval unless further extended by the
Commission upon written request of the subdivider, and by filing 60 days prior
to the expiration of the approval and by payment of a filing fee established by
the Town Council.
   (F)   Subsequent approval will be required of the engineering proposals
pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage and sewage disposal,
grading and gradients, roadway widths, and the surfacing of streets, prior to
the approval of the secondary plat.
   (G)   Upon approval of the primary plat, the Commission will indicate upon
each copy that it has been approved. One copy shall be returned to the
subdivider along with a written statement indicating the action taken by the
Commission. If approved with conditions, a written copy of the conditions shall
accompany each copy of the approved plat. If disapproved, the Commission shall
return to the subdivider three copies of the primary plat marked “Disapproved
by the Town of Fortville Plan Commission,” along with a written statement
indicating the reason or reasons for its disapproval.
   (H)   All subdivisions, business, or industrial use must comply with Chapter
53 (Stormwater Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control Regulations).
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS; SECONDARY PLAT
§ 156.050 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The secondary plat will not be considered for approval until the
action taken by the Commission on the required primary plat has been completed,
nor shall secondary approval be granted prior to the expiration of the appeal
period provided for in the Indiana Code. When the secondary plat submitted does
not substantially conform to the approved primary plat, the subdivider shall
not file an application for secondary plat approval until the primary plat has
been amended in accordance with the same procedure required for primary plat
approval.
   (B)   Construction drawings are to be submitted for major subdivisions with
the secondary plat. The construction drawings shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
      (1)   All drainage with invert and top of casting elevations, sizes,
length of pipe, drainage profile, existing and proposed tile, drains, culverts,
bridges, appropriate high and low water elevations of lakes and streams, and
all wooded areas;
      (2)   Street information, including right-of-way width, type of material
to be used, cross-sections, slope of pavement, all stationing, curve data,
street profiles, curbs and gutters, and location and description of street
signs;
      (3)   All information required by the town’s sewage and drainage
regulations;
      (4)   Topography with a minimum contour interval of two feet and site-
grading plan for the entire subdivision;
      (5)   The title, name, address, signature, and registration number of the
professional engineer and/or surveyor, and the date, including revision dates;
      (6)   The postal address for each lot. The applicant shall provide a
typewritten list of lot numbers as shown on the secondary plat with
corresponding mailing addresses organized by street;
      (7)   Plan must comply with all the requirements under
Chapter 53 (Stormwater Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control Regulations).
      (8)   The supplemental data sheet shall include the flood zone statement
including FIRM map number and date.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.051 PHASING.
   The subdivider may request secondary plat approval for all or any portion of
the approved primary plat, provided, however, that submission of a secondary
plat covering only a portion of the area contained in the approved primary plat
may be permitted only after consideration of the effect of the continuity of
roads, utilities and services.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.052 SECONDARY PLAT.
   (A)   Following the approved calendar, the subdivider shall submit for final
plan approval a mylar, 18 inches by 18 inches, at an accepted scale and the
number of paper copies required for each department reviewing the plat. The
secondary plat shall be accompanied by a fee set by the Town Council.
   (B)   The secondary plat shall include:
      (1)   The name of the subdivision;
      (2)   The location by section, township and range, and the legal
description of the property platted;
      (3)   The name and certification of the land surveyor preparing or
certifying the plat, as set out in the appendices to this chapter;
      (4)   The scale, shown graphically and numerically, and the date and
northpoint;
      (5)   The boundary of the plat, based on a boundary survey conforming
with the Minimum Standards for the Competent Practice of Land Surveying
administered by the State Board of Registration of Land Surveyors, as provided
in 865 I.A.C. 1-12, having an unadjusted mathematical closure of 1:10,000, with
angular and lineal dimensions;
      (6)   The exact locations, width and name of all streets within and
adjoining the plat, and the exact location and width of all alleys and
crosswalks;
      (7)   True angles and distance to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments, which shall be accurately described in the plat. Also the
locations of the subdivision cornerpoints and the location of the elevation
benchmarks;
      (8)   Municipal, township, county or section lines, or previously platted
land accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distance and angles;
      (9)   The radius angle of intersection, tangent length, length of curve,
point of curvature and point of tangency for curves, radii, internal angles,
points and curvatures, tangent bearings, and lengths of all arcs;
      (10)   All easements for rights-of-way provided for public services and
utilities;
      (11)   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths;
      (12)   Accurate location of all monuments;
      (13)   Accurate outlines of any area, other than public ways to be
dedicated, reserved for public or semipublic use with the purposes indicated
thereon, and for any areas to be reserved for the use of all property owners;
      (14)   Building setbacks, accurately shown with dimensions which are not
in conflict with the Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 152);
      (15)   Acknowledgment, by the owner and as required by law, of the
adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets, other public areas, and
utility and drainage easements, as set out in
Appendix B;
      (16)   Each secondary plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall
carry a certificate signed by the owner after Technical Review Committee and
Plan Commission approval but before recording, as set out in
Appendix C;
      (17)   A notarized statement indicating that the applicant is the owner
of the land to be subdivided and that the subdivision shown on the recording
plat is made with his or her free consent, as set out in
Appendix C;
      (18)   The proper form for the acceptance of dedications by the Town
Council, as set out in
Appendix D;
      (19)   The proper form for the approval of the Commission, as set out in
Appendix E;
      (20)   Restrictive covenants regulating the use and development of the
lots shall be on the secondary plat or made a part thereof, subject to the
approval of the Commission. The protective covenants shall include the clauses
as outlined in §§
156.070 through
156.078 and
156.090 through
156.099;
      (21)   A note on the plat as follows: “Dedicated R/W in this major
subdivision consists of         acres;”
      (22)   Statement for drainage easements per Stormwater Ordinance (
Chapter 53);
      (23)   Area map; and
      (24)   Redact statement of social security information.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 155.053 FINANCIAL GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Financial guarantees shall be required for all proposed incidental
improvements not completed prior to signing of the secondary plat by the Plan
Commission for all completed improvements as required by the subdivision
control regulations.
   (B)   A maintenance bond shall be required prior to signing of the secondary
plat by the Plan Commission and shall:
      (1)   Run to the town from the developer;
      (2)   Be in an amount not less than 20% of the cost of all improvements
and installations as required by §§
156.090 through
156.098;
      (3)   Be with surety satisfactory to the town;
      (4)   Warrant the workmanship and all materials used in the construction,
installation and completion of the improvements, and installations to be of
good quality and to have been constructed and completed in a workmanlike manner
in accordance with the standards, specifications and requirements of this
chapter and the plans and specifications submitted to the Plan Commission;
      (5)   Provide that for a period of not less than 36 months after the
installations and improvements have been completed or are accepted for public
maintenance by the town, the applicant will, at his or her own expense, make
all repairs to the improvements and installations or the foundations thereof,
which may become necessary by reason of improper workmanship or materials; and
      (6)   Bear an “A” rating or better as ranked by a reputable insurance
rating firm to the satisfaction of the town.
   (C)   A performance bond shall be required prior to the beginning of
construction by and shall:
      (1)   Run to the town from the developer;
      (2)   Be in an amount equal to 125% of the cost of all incidental
improvements and installations as required by §§
156.090 through
156.098. All improvements and installations as required in §§
156.090 through
156.098, except for incidental improvements, shall be completed and approved
prior to signing of the secondary plat.
      (3)   Be with surety satisfactory to the town;
      (4)   Be valid and effective until the improvements are installed to the
satisfaction of the town at which time all required maintenance bond(s) shall
be posted for a period of not less than 36 months; and
      (5)   Bear an “A” rating or better as ranked by a reputable insurance
rating firm to the satisfaction of the town.
   (D)   Cash bonds or other negotiable securities that are acceptable and
assigned to the town may be posted with the town in lieu of the performance
bond.
   (E)   Town staff may grant exception(s) to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.054 BOND FUNDS.
   Any funds received from the financial guarantees required by this chapter
shall be used only for the purposes of making the improvements, installations
or repairs for which the guarantees were provided, in accordance with the
standards, specifications and requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.055 COMPLETION AFFIDAVIT.
   Upon the acceptance of the improvements and installations by the town, the
applicant may obtain a completion affidavit from the town stating that the
required improvements and installations have been installed in compliance with
specifications of this chapter and have been accepted for public maintenance by
the town, subject to the terms of the maintenance bond provided by the
applicant.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.056 REVIEW PROCEDURE OF TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for secondary plat approval, the
Technical Review Committee shall review the secondary plat.
      (1)   If the Technical Review Committee finds that the secondary plat has
been prepared in accordance with the terms of this chapter, they shall approve.
      (2)   If the Technical Review Committee finds that the secondary plat has
not been prepared in accordance with the terms of this chapter, they shall
return the plat to the subdivider with a written specification of the items of
nonconformance.
   (B)   The Planning Director and Plan Commission Chairperson shall, upon the
filing of an application for secondary plat approval, review the secondary plat
along with the accompanying data, hear the report of the Technical Review
Committee, and determine whether or not the secondary plat meets all minimum
requirements and standards of this chapter and of all other applicable
ordinances in the county. The Planning Director and Plan Commission Chairperson
shall then take one of the following actions on the secondary plat:
      (1)   (a)   If the Planning Director and Plan Commission Chairperson
determines that upon the satisfactory completion of one or more specified
conditions consistent with the requirements, standards, and specifications of
this chapter, the secondary plat would comply with the terms of this chapter,
the Planning Director and Plan Commission Chairperson may give conditional
approval to the plat.
         (b)   Conditional approval of a secondary plat may include a
construction agreement which is acceptable to the Planning Director and Plan
Commission Chairperson and would permit the subdivider to proceed with the
installation of improvements prior to recording. Written notice of the
conditional approval shall constitute formal authorization to the subdivider to
construct and install all or a part of the required improvements, subject to
inspection and acceptance procedures required by this chapter. The subdivider
shall furnish sufficient evidence to the Planning Director and Plan Commission
Chairperson of the satisfactory completion of the conditions before the plat
will be deemed “final approval for record.”
      (2)   The Planning Director and Plan Commission Chairperson shall sign
the secondary plat for record only after it has determined that the secondary
plat meets the minimum requirements of this chapter and all applicable
ordinances in the town and that sufficient financial guarantees have been
submitted in accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   Should the Planning Director and Plan Commission Chairperson decide
to disapprove the plat, written notice of the action, together with reasons
therefor, shall be transmitted to the subdivider.
      (4)   After review of the secondary plat; drainage calculations and
construction plans must be reviewed in accordance to
Chapter 53 (Stormwater Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control Regulations)
before construction may begin. All plans must be approved by the Town Engineer.
   (C)   Upon final approval of the secondary plat, town staff shall indicate
upon each copy that it has been approved. One copy shall be returned to the
subdivider, along with the written statement indicating the action taken by the
Planning Director and Plan Commission Chairperson. If approved with conditions,
a written copy of the conditions shall accompany each copy of the approved
secondary plat.
   (D)   Final approval of a plat by the Planning Director and Plan Commission
Chairperson shall be an acceptance by the public of the offer of dedication of
any street improvement, way, place, structure, utility improvements, or open
space improvement, within the areas shown upon the plat.
   (E)   The Planning Director and Plan Commission Chairperson shall affix
their signatures to the original tracing and the subdivider shall record the
plat with the County Recorder within 30 days. If not recorded within this time,
the approval shall be null and void, unless further extended by the Planning
Director and Plan Commission Chairperson upon written request of the
subdivider, prior to the expiration. The subdivider shall pay the recording
fee, and shall submit a recorded hard copy and digital copy to town staff.
Until the prints have been so filed, no improvement location permit, occupancy
permit, or other permits shall be issued for any lot shown upon the plat.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
DESIGN PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS
§ 156.070 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In determining whether an application for approval shall be granted,
the Commission shall determine if the plat conforms to the principles and
standards required in this chapter, which shall be deemed as minimal; and
whenever the applicable requirements of other town ordinances or adopted
standards are higher or more restrictive, those requirements shall control any
application for plat approval.
   (B)   In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown for all
natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots, or similar
conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the
proposed development.
   (C)   Due consideration shall be given to the prevention of air and stream
pollution, proper treatment and disposal of refuse and other waste, and the
elimination of other blighting characteristics.
   (D)   The subdivision layout shall be of a character that protects the
health, safety, and general welfare of the town and its residents, and shall be
consistent with the community’s goals and objectives in the Comprehensive Plan.
   (E)   In designing a street system, the subdivider shall be guided by the
following principles:
      (1)   Adequate vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian access shall be
provided to all parcels;
      (2)   Local street patterns shall provide reasonable direct access to the
primary circulation system and a grid system shall be used to the extent
possible;
      (3)   Traffic generators within residential areas shall be considered in
the design of the circulation pattern;
      (4)   Planning and construction of residential streets shall clearly
relate to their local function;
      (5)   Pedestrian-vehicular conflict points shall be minimized;
      (6)   Cul-de-sacs shall be used rarely, if at all, and only if needed for
topographic reasons;
      (7)   Concepts of new urbanism/neo-traditional development.
   (F)   All plans must meet the requirements under
Chapter 53 (Stormwater Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control Regulations),
including drainage calculations, storm sewer design, floodplain management, and
erosion control.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 155.071 GEOMETRIC STREET STANDARDS.
   (A)   Refer to the town’s adopted Access Control Ordinance (
Chapter 155) and adopted Street Standards. In the event of a conflict, the
Planning Director may determine the most appropriate standard given the context
of the subdivision. All dedicated and designated rights-of-way shall conform to
the following minimum dimensions:
 
Street Right-of-Way        Minimum Dimensions
Major arterial             See Thoroughfare Plan
Minor arterial             See Thoroughfare Plan
Collector                  See Thoroughfare Plan
Local (Appendix AB)        See Thoroughfare Plan
Cul-de-sacs, when utilized 50 feet in radius
Utility easements          15 feet
 
   (B)   No more than two streets shall intersect at any one point unless
specifically approved by the Commission. Generally, intersections of major
streets should be at least 800 feet apart and any street jogs with centerline
offsets of less than 150 feet should be avoided, as shown in
Appendix L. Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersection on the
opposite side of the street.
   (C)   Generally, streets shall intersect at 90 degrees whenever possible
with a minimum distance of 100 feet; and shall generally not intersect at less
than 80 degrees onto arterial or collector streets, as shown in
Appendix M.
   (D)   To ensure adequate site distance, when the street centerline deflects
more than 10 degrees, connections shall be made by horizontal curves.
Generally, the minimum centerline radius for local residential streets shall be
150 feet and for all other streets shall be 400 feet, as shown in
Appendix N.
   (E)   Generally, a tangent of at least 100 feet shall be introduced between
reversed curves on local and collector streets, as shown in
Appendix O.
   (F)   Proper sight visibility shall be maintained at all intersections.
   (G)   The maximum vertical grade for all streets shall not exceed 5%. The
minimum vertical grade of all streets shall be 0.4%.
   (H)   When utilized, the maximum length cul-de-sac street shall be 1,300
feet measured along the center line from the intersection at origin through the
center of the circle to the end of the right-of-way. The origin of a cul-de-sac
shall be defined as the centerline of the first street intersected by the cul-
de-sac. Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape with a
minimum right-of-way diameter of 100 feet.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.072 GENERAL STREET STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with other requirements
of these regulations, and where the Commission finds it will be proper to
require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is
subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the
other half of the street shall be planned within the tract.
   (B)   No street names may be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets within the town limits. The streets which are
logical extensions or continuations of, or obviously in alignment with any
existing streets, either constructed or appearing on any validly recorded plat,
shall bear the names of the existing streets.
   (C)   Rights-of-way for proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary
lines of the proposed subdivision so that a connection can be made to all
adjacent properties unless the extension is not feasible because of topography
or other physical conditions, or unless, in the opinion the Commission, the
extension is not necessary or desirable for the coordination with existing
streets or the most advantageous development of adjacent tracts. In any event,
no subdivision shall be designed so as to create or perpetuate the land-locking
of adjacent undeveloped land.
   (D)   A temporarily dead-ended street shall be permitted in any case in
which a street is proposed to be and should logically be extended but is not
yet constructed. An adequate easement for a turnaround shall be provided for
any temporary dead-end street which extends 200 feet or more in length. The
easement shall be automatically vacated to abutting property owners when the
dead-ended street is legally extended.
   (E)   In subdivisions that adjoin or include existing streets that do not
conform to the minimum right-of-way dimensions as established by the
Thoroughfare Plan, the subdivider shall dedicate additional width along either
one or both sides of the streets of inadequate width so as to bring them up to
standards, provided the area to be used for widening is owned by the subdivider
or under his or her control.
   (F)   The following provisions shall be required as a provision of the
restrictive covenants of all secondary plats to which they apply.
      (1)   No fence, wall, hedge, tree or shrub planting which obstructs sight
lines and elevations between two and one-half and eight feet above the street
shall be placed or permitted to remain on any corner lot within the triangular
area formed by the street right-of-way lines and a line connecting points 40
feet from the intersection of the minor street lines, and 75 feet from the
intersection of arterial streets, or in the case of a rounded property corner,
from the intersection of the street right-of-way lines extended. Sight
visibility triangles shall be shown graphically on the plat, on applicable
lots, and labeled as sight visibility easements.
      (2)   No sump pump drains or other drains shall outlet onto the street.
      (3)   The maintenance of all irrigation or sprinkler systems installed in
the right-of-way shall be the responsibility of the individual homeowner or
developer. The town assumes no responsibility for maintenance or damage of any
kind.
      (4)   Each homeowner (lot owner) shall be responsible for constructing a
five-foot wide concrete sidewalk, unless otherwise approved by the town, four
inches thick, six inches at driveway, with expansion joints along the entire
street frontage of their respective lot. The sidewalk shall be constructed
prior to completing finish lot grading. The sidewalk shall be located one-half
foot inside the street right-of-way line, (not on the lot) and parallel to the
street right-of-way line. The lot owner is responsible for the repair and
maintenance of the sidewalk. All public sidewalks shall comply with the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) including at intersections.
      (5)   The homeowners’ association shall employ a management company to
assist with the management, administration, operation, and maintenance of the
subdivision.
   (G)   Pipe underdrains will be used on both sides of the street as shown in
Appendix P. The minimum slope of the pipe shall be 0.4%.
   (H)   Bicycle lanes and multi-use trails shall be provided with markings,
signage, and buffering of suitable size and location in accordance with the
Hancock County Trails Plan (2018).
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.073 BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Block length and width or acreage within bounding streets shall be
designed to accommodate the size of the lot required in the area by this
chapter and to provide for convenient access, circulation control, and safety
of street traffic. Blocks that are unreasonably large or small will not be
approved.
   (B)   The maximum block length shall be 800 feet.
   (C)   Residential blocks shall be of sufficient depth to accommodate two
tiers of lots of minimum depth.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.074 LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Subdivision lots shall be adequate for the type of development and
land use proposed, and shall conform to the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance (
Chapter 152).
   (B)   The lot size, width, depth, shape, grade, location and orientation,
shall be in proper relation to street and block design to existing and proposed
topographical conditions.
   (C)   Every lot or parcel shall have legal access to a public street
designated, designed and improved in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   (D)   The minimum lot width shall conform to the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance (
Chapter 152).
   (E)   The minimum yard size, or setback lines, required for each lot shall
be in conformance with the requirements of the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance (
Chapter 152).
   (F)   Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to allow
maintenance of front setback lines on both streets.
   (G)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles or radial to
the street line.
   (H)   Double frontage lots shall not be permitted.
   (I)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall have
additional minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate building
site and afford the minimum usable area required for front, rear, and side
yards.
   (J)   All lots must have proper drainage.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.075 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Adequate areas of suitable size and location shall be allocated for
utility easements. As a general principle, the easements shall be at least 15
feet in width, shall provide reasonable continuity from block to block and
shall be located at rear lot lines and along side and front lot lines when
deemed necessary.
   (B)   All easements must meet the requirements under
Chapter 53 (Stormwater Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control Regulations).
   (C)   Whenever practical, the subdivider shall design for the placement of
utility lines underground, following the required standards and specifications
established by each utility company. The location of each underground utility
system shall be shown by appropriate easement lines on the proposed plat.
   (D)   Where the sanitary sewer system in a subdivision consists of
individual septic systems, perimeter drains installed as a part of the septic
system may be located in common easements designated for drainage and
utilities.
   (E)   The following shall be lettered on each proposed plat depicting a
secondary septic field easement:
      The secondary septic field easement shown on this plat shall be deemed a
permanent easement and permanently reserved for the construction of a secondary
septic field in the event that the primary septic field fails. The easement
area shall remain undisturbed, with no buildings, structures or any other thing
located within the easement. The easement should also remain free of any
process or thing that might cause compaction of the soils.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.076 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   It is recognized that the subdivider, in creating commercial and
industrial subdivisions, faces unique problems of lot design not normally
encountered in residential subdivisions. For this reason, the initial emphasis
of the Commission shall be upon street layout and block arrangement. Generally,
the procedural requirements shall be for the owner to follow the regular
procedure outlined in these regulations. However, the subdivider need show only
two lots along with the street and block layout. Then from time to time, as
prospective buyers or users express interest in lots sized to their required
specifications, the owner shall submit an amendment to the approved recorded
subdivision plat for consideration.
   (B)   Regular procedural requirements of the Commission following the
receipt of a final subdivision plat shall then apply, except those streets that
have been built by following an approved set of plans on the previously
approved secondary plat shall not have to be rebuilt because of the adoption of
new criteria by the town. This shall also apply to storm drainage facilities
within the subdivision unless runoff characteristics have been changed by the
newly proposed improvements or unauthorized existing improvements.
   (C)   Drainage must meet all the requirements under
Chapter 53 (Stormwater Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control Regulations).
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.077 RESERVED.
§ 156.078 PONDS AND LAKES.
   (A)   On all plats where there is a pond and/or lake, the following
covenants shall be placed: “This pond and/or lake shall serve as detention for
drainage areas and outlets for surface water for this subdivision. The pond
and/or lake may serve as a supplemental water source for fire protection.
Maintenance shall include but not be limited to: mowing, trimming, aquatic
plant management (such as but not limited to cattails), algae control,
burrowing animals, weeds, odors, insects, and water quality maintenance.”
   (B)   The covenants must spell out who is responsible for maintenance.
   (C)   Signage around pond and/or lake. Danger signs shall be mounted at
appropriate locations to warn of deep water and possible flood conditions. In
addition, signs should be posted “WARNING: NO SWIMMING, BOATING, OR ICE SKATING
PERMITTED.”
   (D)   Safety screens or animal guards are required on all pipes entering or
leaving a pond and/or lake and have a maximum opening of four inches to prevent
children or animals from crawling into the structures.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
IMPROVEMENTS AND INSTALLATIONS
§ 156.090 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Subdivision improvements shall be designed, furnished and installed by
the subdivider in accordance with requirements of this chapter, and INDOT
standards when applicable, and whenever the applicable requirements of any
other governmental unit are higher or more restrictive, those requirements
shall control any application or plat approval. No final subdivision plat shall
be approved by the Commission unless the following improvements have been
completed as herein specified and required, or the subdivider provides a
financial guarantee therefor as specified in §
156.053.
   (B)   After Commission approval of the primary plat and prior to any
construction in the subdivision, the subdivider shall submit copies of the
construction drawings for streets and drainage facilities to the town before
construction is to begin.
   (C)   Supervision and inspection of construction of all required
improvements shall be under the direction of the town staff. All phases of
construction are to be inspected on a regular basis. Notice is to be given to
the town personnel 24 hours in advance.
   (D)   A set of both paper and digital “as-built” or “record” drawings shall
be submitted to the town after the subdivision street and drainage construction
is complete.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.091 STREETS.
   Improvements for streets shall be performed to meet the following minimum
standards and requirements:
   (A)   The dimensions for paved surface dimensions shall be as follows:
      (1)   For local and cul-de-sac streets:
         (a)   The width, with curb and gutter, shall be as per the
Thoroughfare Plan.
         (b)   The terminus diameter on a local cul-de-sac shall be 100 feet.
         (c)   The radius at intersections shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   For collector streets:
         (a)   The width, with curb and gutter, shall be as per the
Thoroughfare Plan.
         (b)   The radius at intersections shall be 35 feet.
         (c)   At an intersection of a subdivision local or collector street
with an arterial or major collector street or road, the Commission may require
the subdivider to install acceleration and deceleration and/or passing lanes
along the arterial or collector street.
   (B)   The minimum standards for street construction shall be in accordance
with the Street and Utility Standards.
      (1)   The provisions for construction of the top layer of asphalt shall
be as follows:
         (a)   When 80% of the subdivision lots have homes built on them; or
         (b)   A three-year period, starting from the date of completion and
posting of a maintenance bond. A cash bond or letter of credit shall be posted
to ensure the performance of the placing of the asphalt surface. If the above
requirements are not met, then the town may withhold issuance of any building
permits until the asphalt surface is placed and accepted.
      (2)   The special requirements for industrial and commercial subdivisions
are where streets are designed to serve industrial or commercial subdivisions
or sites, or other developments requiring service by many heavy vehicles, the
minimum pavement thickness will be that for a collector street.
      (3)   Temporary gravel construction shall be required at the entrance to
a construction site to prevent sediment from being tracked from a site onto a
public or private roadway.
   (C)   Concrete curbs and gutters shall be required for all streets. Refer to
Thoroughfare Plan and Street and Utility Standards. Chairback curbs are
required in all projects. The use of roll curbs shall be at the discretion of
the Planning Director.
   (D)   Sidewalks. The plan shall include public sidewalks which shall be
constructed by the builder/lot owner at the time of construction of the
residence, if not in advance. The sidewalk shall extend along the entire street
frontage of each respective lot and shall be constructed prior to completing
finish lot grading. The sidewalk shall be located one-half foot inside the
street right-of-way line (not on the lot) and parallel to the street right-of-
way line. All sidewalk design and construction shall comply with the Americans
Disabilities Act (ADA), as amended. Sidewalks shall be at least 5 feet wide,
unless otherwise permitted by the Planning Director in the historic area of the
town. The lot owner is responsible for the repair and maintenance of the
sidewalk.
   (E)   No new subdivision street shall have open drainage swales along the
streets.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to provide and
install all required signs including street signs, stop signs, warning signs,
bicycle lane and/or multi-use path signs, speed limits and any other regulatory
signs as may be deemed necessary by the town. All sign materials and
installation procedures shall meet the requirements of the latest edition of
the State Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. The location and type of
all signs in a subdivision shall be identified in construction drawings and
presented to the town for approval.
   (G)   The provisions for street lighting shall be as follows: The developer
shall install or have installed with the street construction, street lights
adequate to light all road intersections, curves, cul-de-sacs and entrances in
the development in compliance with the following standards:
      (1)   The street light spacing shall be in compliance with the following
minimum foot candle requirements. Street lights in general shall be on property
lines and staggered on opposite sides of the street.
         (a)   Residential entrances: 1.2.
         (b)   Residential streets: 0.5.
         (c)   Public or private parking lots: 1.2.
         (d)   Park areas with playgrounds or walking/biking trails: 0.5.
      (2)   All lighting components shall be of utility quality columns and
fixtures with photovoltaic devices conforming to ANSI standard C136.10.
Developments are encouraged to integrate decorative designs where practical.
   (H)   In developments having a density equal to or greater than one-half
dwelling units per acre, the developer shall install bicycle lanes and/or
multi-use trails in accordance with the adopted Hancock County Trails Plan
(2018) to the satisfaction of the Planning Director or designee.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.092 DRAINAGE AND SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   In order to ensure the maintenance of a properly designed and installed
drainage system, the following divisions shall be required as a provision of
the restrictive covenants of all secondary plats and shall be included in all
deeds written relative to the plats. The proposed owner shall sign and the
signed copy of this covenant shall be on the plat:
   (A)   Drainage swales on dedicated drainage easements are not to be altered,
dug out, filled in, tiled, or otherwise changed without the written permission
of the town. Property owners must maintain these swales as sodded grassways or
other non-eroding surfaces. Water from roofs or parking areas must be contained
on the property long enough so that the drainage swales or ditches will not be
damaged by the water.
   (B)   Any property owner altering, changing, or damaging these drainage
swales or ditches will be held responsible for the action and will be given 30
days notice by mail to repair the damage, after which time, if no action is
taken, the town will cause the repairs to be accomplished, and the bill for the
repairs will be sent to the affected property owner for immediate payment.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.093 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   A water distribution system shall be designed and constructed by the
subdivider to provide adequate water service for all lots in the proposed
subdivision.
   (B)   A subdivision plat shall not be considered for final approval until
improvement plans for a water system by one of the following methods have been
submitted:
      (1)   A permanent water distribution system including all pipes, fire
hydrants, valves, and other appurtenances shall be provided, and the
distribution system shall be connected with an approved public or private water
system in accordance with the satisfactory plans and specifications therefor.
      (2)   If the area proposed to be platted is not so located with regard to
an adequate public or group water supply system, before any structure on any
lot therein is occupied, an individual water supply system for the lot shall be
constructed and installed in accordance with the satisfactory plans and
specifications therefor. In no case will any part of the private water system
be located closer than 15 feet to a property line or within 50 feet of a
private sewage disposal system.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.094 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Monuments and markers shall be installed by the subdivider of any
subdivision of land. Permanent monuments and markers shall be consistent with
the Minimum Standards for Competent Practice of Land Surveying administered by
the Indiana State Board of Registration for Land Surveyors, as provided in 865
I.A.C. 1-12. All monuments and markers shall be installed within 30 days after
acceptance of the streets by the town.
   (B)   Permanent monuments and markers set shall be five-eighths-inch
diameter or larger iron or steel rebar, copper welds or their aluminum
equivalent, harrison monuments or pipes weighing a minimum of one pound per
foot and at least 30 inches in length.
   (C)   The markers shall be installed at:
      (1)   The perimeter plat corners;
      (2)   The beginning and end of the center lines of all streets;
      (3)   The center line intersections of all streets and culs-de-sac;
      (4)   The radius point of culs-de-sac;
      (5)   The center line point of curvature and point of tangency of all
street curves;
      (6)   The intersection of all street and alley right-of-way lines;
      (7)   All the points where lot lines intersect street or alley right-of-
way lines;
      (8)   All angles formed by the intersection of lot lines;
      (9)   All perimeter lot corners; and
      (10)   All points required to delineate the location or extent of
reservations, easements, or dedications not otherwise defined.
   (D)   Other monuments may be used if they are made of material of similar
durability, which includes an element that can be found by a device capable of
detecting ferrous or magnetic objects. All monuments, except those set in
streets, shall have a substantial plastic or metal cap permanently affixed
thereto showing the registered land surveyor’s professional license number and/
or the name or identification number of the land surveying firm or government
agency.
   (E)   Where monuments as, defined in divisions (B), (C), and (D) above,
cannot readily be set, survey points must be marked by a drill hole, cut cross,
notch, railroad spike, or other similar permanent mark and referenced to any
nearby objects such as building foundations, concrete head walls and the like.
   (F)   All U.S., state, county, or other official benchmarks, monuments, or
triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
precise position.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.095 RESERVED.
§ 156.096 EROSION CONTROL.
   Project must meet all the requirements under
Chapter 53 (Stormwater Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control Regulations).
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.097 HYDRANTS.
   (A)   The town may require installation of dry hydrants in subdivisions with
detention facilities. The hydrants shall be installed consistent with standards
maintained by the town.
   (B)   Any new hydrants, fire or dry, that are installed according to the
Street and Utility Standards.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.098 CULVERTS; PRIVATE DRIVES.
   Culverts or bridges installed as part of private drives shall be of adequate
design to support firefighting apparatus.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.099 RESERVED.
MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
§ 156.110 INTENT.
   The Plan Commission is hereby authorized and empowered to grant
modifications and exceptions to the terms of this chapter as will not be
contrary to the public interest, where owning to special conditions, fully
demonstrated on the basis of the facts presented, strict compliance with
specific provisions of the chapter will result in extreme practical
difficulties or undue misuse of property.
   (A)   In the exercise of this authorization the Commission shall grant a
modification or exception only upon the determination that:
      (1)   The grant will not be detrimental to the public health, safety and
general welfare of the county;
      (2)   The grant will not adversely affect the reasonable development of
adjacent property;
      (3)   The grant is justified because of topographic or other special
conditions unique to the property involved, in contradistinction to mere
inconvenience or financial disadvantage; and
      (4)   The grant is consistent with the objectives of this chapter and
will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   A written application for modifications or exceptions shall be
submitted by the subdivider or town staff indicating the specific section of
this chapter under which the modifications or exception is sought and stating
the grounds on which it is requested.
   (C)   After the application has been docketed for hearing, proper
publication of notice has been published, and due consideration has been given,
the Commission shall render a decision which shall be:
      (1)   Recorded in the minutes of the Commission, which minutes shall
include the reasoning on which the modification or exception was approved or
disapproved;
      (2)   Transmitted to the subdivider and applicable governmental units in
accordance with the terms of this chapter;
      (3)   Attached with conditions as will, in the Commission’s judgment,
secure substantially the objectives of the requirements, standards, and
specifications of this chapter so modified or excepted; and
      (4)   Attached with any covenants or other legal provisions as will, in
the Commission’s judgment, assure general conformity to and achievement of the
subdivision plan.
   (D)   Before any modification or exception shall be granted, the Commission
shall determine that satisfactory provision and arrangement has been made
concerning the following, where applicable:
      (1)   Ingress and egress to the property and proposed structures thereon
with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety, convenience, and
access in case of fire or catastrophe;
      (2)   Automotive and pedestrian traffic flow with reference to adequacy,
circulation ability and function within the broader planning unit;
      (3)   Off-street and on-street parking and loading areas with reference
to the needs of adjoining land use;
      (4)   Utilities, with reference to locations, availability and
compatibility;
      (5)   Clear identification of property for land records;
      (6)   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions and
character of materials.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.120 AMENDMENT.
   In accordance with state statutes, the Town Council may consider amendments
to this chapter as proposed by the Town Council, the Plan Commission, town
staff, or by a citizen’s petition. Any proposed amendment shall be referred to
the Plan Commission for public hearing, consideration, and report before any
final action is taken by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.121 ENFORCEMENT.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the County
Recorder’s office or have any validity until it shall have been approved in the
manner prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.122 RECORDING OF PLATS.
   All plats of a subdivision, after the same have been submitted and approved,
as provided in this chapter, shall be copied upon a book of plats of the county
and shall be filed and kept by the county among the county records. No
amendment to such plat shall be entitled to record in the County Recorder’s
Office until approval by the Planning Director.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.123 EFFECT.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this chapter shall not be repealed by the passage of this chapter except where
the repeal is specifically designated by ordinance, but the ordinance with the
more restrictive applicable provisions shall be the ordinance that applies.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.124 APPEAL.
   Any person feeling aggrieved at any action of the Commission or town staff,
or lack of action of the Commission or town staff, upon a proposed plat or
replat, may apply in writing to the Commission, prior to the next regular
meeting, for modification of the action complained of, or lack of action, on
the proposed plat or replat. The application shall be considered by the
Commission at a time and in a manner as it may determine, but within 90 days
following the regular meeting.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
§ 156.125 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation. Refer to Town Code Title IX,
Chapter 92 for enforcement procedures.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX A: SURVEY CERTIFICATION
State of                                 )
                     ) SS:
County of                              )
I,                                                           hereby certify
that I am a Land Surveyor registered in compliance with the laws of the State
of Indiana; and I do hereby further certify that I have surveyed the property
described in the above caption and that I have subdivided the same into block
and lots as shown on the hereon drawn plat. This plat correctly represents said
survey and subdivision in every detail. Monuments shown are in place as
located. All lot corners are marked with                                    .
Dimensions are in feet and decimal parts thereof.
                  Dated this          day of                           ,
        
                  Signature
                                                         
   (Seal)
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX B: DEED OF DEDICATION
We, the undersigned                                                   ,owners
of the real estate shown and described herein, do hereby lay off, plat, and
subdivide said real estate in accordance with the within plat.
This subdivision shall be known and designated as
                                                   . All right-of-way,
including streets and alleys (if applicable) and public open spaces (if
applicable) shown and not therefore dedicated are hereby dedicated to the
public.
Front building setback lines are hereby established as shown on this plat,
between which lines and property lines of the streets there shall be erected or
maintained no building or structure. Building setback lines are shown for
reference only; refer to the applicable Zoning Ordinance regulations for the
most current requirements. The strips of ground shown on this plat and marked
“Easement” are reserved for the use of public utilities for the installation of
water and sewer mains, poles, ducts, lines and wires, drainage facilities
subject at all times to the proper authorities and to the easement herein
reserved. No permanent or other structures are to be erected or maintained upon
said strips of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their
titles subject to the rights of the public utilities, and to the rights of the
owners of other lots in this subdivision. Within easements, fencing may be
allowed at the discretion of the Town, subject to an Easement Encroachment
Agreement.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX BB: RIGHT TO FARM DEED RESTRICTION
The owner of the herein described real estate, for himself, and for all future
owners and occupants of said real estate, or any parcel or division thereof,
for and in consideration of the right to develop the real estate for other than
agricultural uses, hereby:
      (1)   Acknowledges and agrees that the real estate may be adjacent to an
area zoned or used for agricultural purposes, which uses include but are not
limited to:
         (a)   Production of crops;
         (b)   Animal husbandry;
         (c)   Land application of animal waste;
         (d)   Raising, breeding and sale of livestock and poultry, including
confinement feeding operations;
         (e)   Use of farm machinery; and/or
         (f)   The sale of farm products.
      (2)   Waives any and all objections to any agricultural uses within two
(2) miles of any boundary of the real estate.
      (3)   Agrees that agricultural uses do not constitute a nuisance so long
as they are not negligently maintained, do not cause bodily injury to third
parties, or directly endanger human health.
      (4)   Agrees that this covenant is for the benefit of the Town and for
all persons engaged in agricultural uses within two (2) miles of any boundary
of the real estate and is enforceable by any of the foregoing.
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX C: CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP
State of                                 )
                     ) SS:
County of                              )
We,                                and                                do hereby
certify that we are the owners of the property described in the above caption
and that as such owners we have caused the said above described property to be
surveyed and subdivided as shown on the herein drawn plat, as our own free and
voluntary act and deed.
                                             (Seal)
                                             (Seal)
State of                                 )
                     ) SS:
County of                              )
I,                                          , a Notary Public in and for said
County and State, do hereby certify that                         and
                                       , personally known to me to be the same
persons whose names are subscribed to the above certificate appeared before me
this day in person and acknowledged that they signed the above certificate as
their own free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein set
forth.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this       day of
                         , 20     .
                                                     (Seal)
   ADDITIONAL CERTIFICATION IF PROPERTY UNDER TRUSTEESHIP
The undersigned as Trustee under the provision of a deed or deeds in trust duly
recorded and delivered to said Trustee in pursuance of a Trust Agreement dated
               and known as Trust No.         as owner causes this subdivision
and plat thereon to be made.
By                                                   
Attest                                              
State of                                 )
                     ) SS:
County of                              )
                                         , a Notary Public in and for said
County and State, do hereby certify that                                 and
                             , of said                                   , who
are personally known to me to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to
the foregoing instrument as such                          respectively appeared
before me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed and delivered
the said instrument of their free and voluntary act of said                    
did also then and there acknowledged that he as custodian of the Corporate Seal
of said trustee did affix the said seal of the said trustee to said instrument
as his free and voluntary act and as the free and voluntary act of said trustee
for the uses and purpose therein set forth.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this        day of
                        ,20      .
                                                                              
                     Notary Public
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX D: ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATIONS
By the power granted to me by the Fortville Town Council at their meeting on
the 5th day of June, 2017, the public right-of-way and public infrastructure is
hereby approved and accepted for                          on this        day of
                      , 20      .
                                       
Joe Renner
Fortville Town Manager
STATE OF INDIANA   )
            ) SS:
COUNTY OF HANCOCK   )
Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally
appeared Joe Renner, by me known to be the Fortville Town Manager who
acknowledged the Acceptance of Dedication of the public right-of-way and public
infrastructure for                                                        .
      WITNESS my hand and Notarial Seal this       day of
                         , 20     .
                                                                My Commission
Expires:                                  
Notary Public
                                                                My County of
Residence:                                  
Printed Name
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX E: DIRECTOR & PLAN COMMISSION APPROVAL
Approved by the Planning Director and the Plan Commission in accordance with
the Subdivision Control
Ordinance.
By:
                                                                                                                                     .
Planning Director    Plan Commission President
Void unless recorded before                                  , 20     .
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX F: PERFORMANCE BOND AGREEMENT FORM
   This Performance Bond Agreement is hereby presented by  (name of
subdivider), the “Principal”,and  (name of bonding company), the “Surety
Company” to the Town of Fortville (the “Town”) this       day of
                            , 20     , for purposes of obtaining the Town’s
signature on Section           of  (name of subdivision), the “Subdivision”
located in the Town of Fortville, Indiana.
   WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the Principal has petitioned for and received Primary Plat approval by
the Plan Commission on       day of                     , 20     for the
Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, the installation of improvements required by the Plan Commission and
the Fortville Town Code as a condition of approval of the Primary Plat have not
been completed, constructed, and installed; and
WHEREAS, the Principal now desires recordation of the Subdivision plat prior to
the installation of improvements required by the Plan Commission and the
Fortville Town Code; and WHEREAS, the Surety Company has pledged a performance
bond(s) (attached) for the actions of the Principal for the completion,
construction, and installation of the improvements required by the Plan
Commission and the Fortville Town Code; and
WHEREAS, the terms and provisions of the performance bond(s) shall remain in
full force and effect until such time when the Board has executed a written
Release of Performance Bond; and WHEREAS, the Surety Company and Principal
agree that the covenants contained herein shall (i) run with the land and (ii)
jointly and severally bind themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators,
successors and assigns to the Town of Fortville jointly and severally for the
completion, construction, and installation of the improvements required by the
Plan Commission and the Fortville Town Code.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Principal agrees to the following obligations for the
completion, construction, and installation of the improvements related to the
development of the Subdivision:
   (1)   The Principal shall construct, install, and complete the following
required improvements and installations for the Subdivision in compliance with
all requirements, standards and specifications of the Fortville Town Code and
other applicable ordinances and regulations of the Town within 12 months from
the date on which the Town signs the Secondary Plat:
   Check all items below covered by the performance bond(s)
   relating to paragraph (1), above and list dollar amount with bond number:
   Bond Type               Dollar Amount   Bond Number
                                           Asphalt — Surface Course
                                                    
                                          Monuments &
Markers                                                       
                                          Permanent
Seeding                                                          
                                          Landscaping                                                             
                                          Multi-Use
Paths                                                          
                                          Pipe
Grouting                                                             
                                          Sidewalks                                                             
                                          Street
Lights                                                             
   (3)   The Principal shall, upon completion of the improvements and
installations in paragraphs (1) above, but prior to acceptance thereof for
public maintenance by the Town, provide a maintenance bond(s) for a period of
not less than 36 months in the amount of not less than 20% of the cost of the
improvements.
   (4)   Upon receipt by the Surety Company of written notice from the Town
stating that the Principal has failed to complete, construct and install the
improvements and installations required by the Plan Commission and the
Fortville Town Code, the Surety Company shall, at the option and direction of
the Town, promptly and at the Surety Company's expense, take one of the
following actions:
      (a)   Arrange for the Principal, with written consent of the Town, to
perform and complete the construction and installation of the improvements and
installations required by the Plan Commission and Fortville Town Code;
      (b)   Undertake to perform and complete the construction and installation
of the improvements and installations required by the Plan Commission and
Fortville Town Code; or
      (c)   Make payment to the Town in the amount to be incurred by the Town
to complete the construction and installation of improvements and installations
required by the Plan Commission and Fortville Town Code. The amount of the
performance bond(s) shall be credited for any payments made in good faith by
the Surety Company, provided that the Surety Company's obligations under this
paragraph (4)(c) shall not exceed $                    in the aggregate.
   (5)   If the Surety Company does not proceed as provided above with
reasonable promptness, but in all events within thirty (30) days, the Surety
Company shall be deemed to be in default on the performance bond(s) fifteen
(15) days after receipt of an additional written notice from the Town to the
Surety Company demanding that the Surety Company perform its obligations under
the performance bond(s), the Town shall be entitled to enforce any remedy
available to the Town.
   (6)   Upon compliance with the terms and provisions of the performance bond
(s) and the execution of a written Release of Performance Bond by the Town, the
performance bond(s) shall become null and void.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this instrument this       
day of               , 20      .
By:                                                                    By:
                                                   
Name of Subdivider                   Name of Surety Company
                                                               
                                                                         
Signature of Principal               Signature of Attorney-in-Fact
                                                                                                                                    
Printed                                 Printed
                                                                                                                                       
Title                                    Title
                                                                                                                                      
Notice of Address                           Notice of Address
By:                                                              
   TOWN OF FORTVILLE
ATTEST:
                                                                   
Attached: Executed Performance Bond(s)
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX G: PERFORMANCE BOND FORM
(Submitted on letterhead of Surety Company with executed power-of-attorney form
attached.)
Bond No. & Rating:
Project Name/Section:
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: That We, the undersigned: (Developer and
Contractor or Developer, only) (Street Address) (City, State, Zip), as
principal and (Surety Name and Address), as Surety, are held and firmly bound
unto the Town of Fortville, Indiana, (hereinafter called the "Obligee") as
Obligee, in the sum of (amount) dollars ($ dollar amount), in lawful current
money of the United States, for which payment will and truly be made, we bind
ourselves, our heirs, successors, executors, and assigns, jointly and
severally, firmly by these presents.
   SEALED WITH OUR SEALS AND DATED THIS          DAY OF                     ,
20     .
THE CONDITIONS of this obligation are such that:
   WHEREAS, the Principal has entered into an Agreement (attached) with the
Obligee for the installation of the following physical improvements:
      Asphalt Surfacing                  Landscaping
      Survey Monuments & Markers             Multi-Use Paths
      Permanent Seeding                   Pipe Grouting
      Sidewalks                     Streetlights
as required by the Fortville Town Code in accordance with all the provisions of
the ordinances, rules, and regulations of the Town of Fortville, Indiana.
NOW THEREFORE, if the said Principal, hereinbefore set forth, shall fully and
faithfully perform all the work specified to be done and performed by said
Agreement between said Principal of the bond and the Town of Fortville, in
accordance with this Agreement, which Agreement is made part hereof by
reference, the same as if fully incorporated herein; then this obligation shall
be void and of no further legal effect; otherwise, this bond shall remain in
full force and effect in law.
However, upon default by the Principal in completing the required improvements
as specified herein in accordance with the aforementioned Agreement, the Surety
shall complete the improvements or pay to the Town of Fortville, Indiana, a sum
up to the total amount provided in the bond to complete such improvements to
the satisfaction of the Town. Payment shall be made upon receipt of a statement
signed by an authorized signer of the Obligee, stating that: "a claim has been
made and there has been a failure of the developer to comply with the terms of
the construction plan requirements for the above mentioned improvements in said
subdivision". Upon approval by the Town, this instrument may be proportionately
reduced as the improvements are completed.
It is expressly being understood and agreed that the liability of the Surety
for any and all claims hereunder, shall in no event exceed the full amount of
this obligation herein stated.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands, in the presence of a
Notary Public this day, month, and year above written.
By:                                                                    By:
                                                         Company Name
(Principal)               Surety Company
                                                                                                                          
   Signature                      Signature of Attorney-in-Fact
                                                                                                                        
   Type/Print Signatory's Name and Title         Type/Print Attorney-in-Fact
Subscribed and sworn before me, a Notary Public, in and for said County and
State, this          day of                        , 20      .
                     Notary Public
                     County of Residence
                     Commission Expiration
Attached:   Executed Power of Attorney Form
         Executed Performance Bond
         Executed Performance Bond Agreement
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX H: PERFORMANCE BOND COMPLETION AFFIDAVIT
This is to certify:
   (a)   That the following improvements as designated and engineered for:
Section of         of
   (Name of Subdivision)
are complete and the as-built construction plans show them to be in accordance
with the specifications and requirements of the Fortville Town Code;
   (b)   That surety has been posted to guarantee all materials and workmanship
and to guarantee repair of any damage that may be inflicted upon the
improvements listed in the course of completion of the subdivision; and
   (c)   That the Town of Fortville has accepted these improvements subject to
the terms of the Maintenance Bond Agreement with the subdivider (attached).
(LIST IMPROVEMENTS)
   TOWN OF FORTVILLE
Attached: Executed Maintenance Bonds, Forms, and Agreement
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX I: RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE BOND
WHEREAS, the Principal and Surety Company have posted a Performance Bond(s) for
the improvements and installations (the “Improvements”) required by the
Fortville Town Code and all other applicable ordinances and regulations of the
Town of Fortville for Section        of                  ; and
(Name of Subdivision)
WHEREAS, the Town of Fortville has issued a Performance Bond Completion
Affidavit indicating that all Improvements have been constructed and installed
in compliance with all requirements, standards, and specifications of the
Fortville Town Code and all other applicable ordinances and regulations.
      Check all items covered by this Release:
         Asphalt Surfacing               Landscaping
         Survey Monuments & Markers          Multi-Use Paths
         Permanent Seeding                Pipe Grouting
         Sidewalks                   Streetlights
NOW, THEREFORE, the Performance Bond(s) issued for the above-indicated
improvements
is/are hereby released.
ATTEST: TOWN OF FORTVILLE
                                                              
(Ord. 1993-9G, passed 9-27-93; Am. Ord. 2003-10F, passed 10-12-03; Am. Ord.
2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX J: RESERVED
APPENDIX K: TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE APPROVAL CERTIFICATE
Approved by the TOWN OF FORTVILLE TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE this           day
of                            , 20     .
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX L: CENTERLINE OFFSETS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1325.png]
 
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX M: INTERSECTION DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1327.png]
 
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX N: CENTERLINE DEFLECTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1329.png]
 
(Ord. 2020-1 D, passed 1-6-20 )
APPENDIX O: REVERSE CURVE TANGENT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1331.png]
 
(Ord. 2020-1 D, passed 1-6-2 0)
APPENDIX P: PIPE UNDERDRAIN — TYPICAL INSTALLATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1333.png]
 
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX Q: SUBDIVISION ENTRANCE - DECLARATION, ACCELERATION AND PASSING BLISTE
R LANES (WHEN REQUIRED)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1335.png]
 
(Ord. 20 20-1D , passed 1-6-20 )
APPENDIX R: TYPICAL CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER (ROLL CURB , WHEN APPROVED FOR
USE)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/67192066065808adc9da71dd8b8c721d22000e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1337.png]
 
(Or d. 202 0-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX S: WAIVER OF LIEN AND AFFIDAVIT OF PAYMENT FORM
   (when posting Maintenance Bond)
Comes now                                      by and through
                            , as its representative
and being duly sworn upon his oath states the following:
   1.   That                             is the developer of a certain
subdivision within the Town of Fortville, Indiana, known as
                                          .
   2.   Contained within said subdivision is certain infrastructure and other
improvements designed by developer and its engineers and installed by the
developer and those persons or entities listed on Exhibit “A”. Said
infrastructure and improvements shall include streets, sidewalks, sewers,
landscaping, lighting, and any other infrastructure located within an easement
or right-of-way dedicated to the Town of Fortville, Indiana.
   3.   That attached hereto and incorporated herein is Exhibit "A" being a
list of all independent contractor, subcontractors, mechanics, and/or material
men who provided any goods, labor, or services in any manner associated with
the design and/or installation of the infrastructure and/or improvements
referred to above.
   4.   Affiant, by his signature below, on behalf of the developer and those
persons or entities listed on Exhibit “A” hereby waives all legal rights to
file any type of lien whatsoever against the real estate within or on which the
aforementioned infrastructure and/or improvements is located and furthermore
represents and warrants that all persons and/or entities on Exhibit "A" have
been paid in full all sums due them for the design and/or installation of said
infrastructure and/or improvements.
   5.   Affiant further warrants and represents that each person and/or entity
on Exhibit “A” has been notified by the developer in writing in advance of the
signing of this Affidavit that developer intends by this Affidavit to waive any
and all lien rights that may exist on behalf of all those listed on Exhibit “A”
and has not received any objection to the execution of this Affidavit from any
representative of those listed on Exhibit “A”.
AND FURTHER AFFIANT SAYETH NOT.
I swear under the penalties of perjury that the above and foregoing is true
                                      .
                                                    (Name of Developer)
Comes now                                   and acknowledges his signature as
set forth above this       day of                                 , 20      .
Subscribed and sworn before me, a Notary Public, in and for said County and
State, this          day of                                 , 20      .
Notary Public
County of Residence
Commission Expiration
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX T: MAINTENANCE BOND AGREEMENT FORM
This Maintenance Bond Agreement is hereby presented by
                                                             
                                           (Name of Subdivider), the
“Principal”
and
                                                                                   
    (Name of Bonding Company), the “Surety Company.”
This Maintenance Bond Agreement is hereby presented by
                                                                                                      
(Name of Subdivider), the “Principal”
and
                                                                                   
      (Name of Bonding Company), the “Surety Company”
to the Town of Fortville (the "Town") this        day of
                            , 20     , for purposes of obtaining the Town’s
acceptance of public maintenance of certain improvements and installations
within
Section        of                                                              
            (Name of Subdivision), the “Subdivision”
located in the Town of Fortville, Indiana.
   WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the Principal has installed certain improvements and installations
within the Subdivision to the satisfaction of the Town, but the following
improvements and installations have not been accepted for public maintenance:
   Check all items below covered by the maintenance bond(s) and list dollar
amount with bond number:
   Bond Type            Dollar Amount       Bond Number
   Asphalt - Intermediate Course
                                                                               
   Asphalt - Surface Course
                                                                                  
   Curbs
                                                                                           
   Erosion Control
                                                                                     
   Final Grading & Lawn Preparation
                                                                            
   Lot Drainage                                                            
   Survey Monumentation
                                                                                  
   Multi-Use Paths
                                                                                     
   Sanitary Sewer
                                                                                     
   Sidewalks
                                                                                        
   Storm Drainage
                                                                                     
   Street Base (stone, asphalt, etc.)
                                                                               
   Street Lights
                                                                                        
   Street Signs
                                                                                        
   Water System
                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
WHEREAS, the Principal now desires for the Town to accept public maintenance of
certain improvements and installations within the Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, the Surety Company has pledged a maintenance bond for any maintenance
actions required of the Principal related to said improvements and
installations; and
WHEREAS, the terms and provisions of the maintenance bond(s) shall remain in
full force and effect until such time when the Board has executed a written
Release of Maintenance Bond; and
WHEREAS, the Surety Company and Principal jointly and severally bind
themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns to
the Town of Fortville jointly and severally for the maintenance of the above-
listed improvements required by the Plan Commission and the Hancock County
Code, and agree to be held and firmly bound unto the Board; and
WHEREAS, the Principal certifies that all improvements and installations within
the Subdivision have been completed in accordance with the requirements,
standards, and specification of the Fortville Town Code, other applicable
ordinances and regulations of the Town, and the construction plans for the
Subdivision as approved by the Town.
NOW, THEREFORE, Principal:
   (1)   Warrants the workmanship and materials used in the construction,
installation and completion of said improvements and installations to be of
good quality and constructed and completed in a workmanlike manner in
accordance with the requirements, standards and specifications of the Fortville
Town Code, other applicable ordinances and regulations of the Town, and the
construction plans for said improvements and installations as approved by the
Town; and
   (2)   Agrees to maintain said improvements and installations at the
Principal's own expense for a period of not less than 36 months after the date
on which said improvements and installations are accepted for public
maintenance by the Town, and shall make all repairs thereto which may become
necessary by reason of improper workmanship or materials.
   (3)   Upon receipt by the Surety Company of written notice from the Town
stating that the Principal has failed to maintain said improvements and
installations as required by the Fortville Town Code and the maintenance bond
(s), the Surety Company shall, at the option and direction of the Town,
promptly and at the Surety Company's expense take one of the following actions:
      (a)   Arrange for the Principal, with written consent of the Town, to
maintain the improvements and installations as required by the Fortville Town
Code and the maintenance bond(s);
      (b)   Undertake maintain the improvements and installations as required
by the Fortville Town Code and the maintenance bond(s); or
      (c)   Make payment to the Town in the amount to be incurred by the Town
to maintain the improvements and installations as required by the Fortville
Town Code and the maintenance bond(s). The amount of the maintenance bond(s)
shall be credited for any payments made in good faith by the Surety Company,
provided that the Surety Company's obligations under this paragraph (3)(c)
shall not exceed $                     in the aggregate.
   (4)   If the Surety Company does not proceed as provided above with
reasonable promptness, but in all events within thirty (30) days, the Surety
Company shall be deemed to be in default on the maintenance bond(s) fifteen
(15) days after receipt of an additional written notice from the Town to the
Surety Company demanding that the Surety Company perform its obligations under
the maintenance bond(s), the Town shall be entitled to enforce any remedy
available to the Town.
   (5)   Upon compliance with the terms and provisions of the maintenance bond
(s) and the execution of a written Release of Maintenance Bond by the Town, the
obligations contained herein shall become null and void.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this instrument this      
day of                 ,
By:                                                                       By:
                                                   
Name of Subdivider                      Name of Surety Company
                                                                                                                                        
Signature of Principal                  Signature of Attorney-in-Fact
                                                                                                                                 
Printed                               Printed
                                                                                                                                 
Title                                 Title
                                                                                                                                         
Notice of Address                        Notice of Address
By:                                                              
   TOWN OF FORTVILLE
Attached: Executed Maintenance Bond(s) and Forms
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX U: MAINTENANCE BOND FORM
(Submitted on letterhead of Surety Company with executed power-of-attorney form
attached.)
Bond No. & Rating:
Project Name and Section:
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: That We, the undersigned: (Developer and
Contractor or Developer, only) (Street Address) (City, State, Zip), as
principal and (Surety Name and Address), as Surety, are held and firmly bound
unto the Town of Fortville, Indiana, in the penal sum of (amount) dollars ($
dollar amount), in lawful current money of the United States, for which payment
will and truly be made, we bind ourselves, our heirs, successors, executors,
and assigns in solido, by these presents.
Dated and signed at                             , Indiana this       day of
                   , 20     .
THE CONDITIONS of this obligation are such that:
WHEREAS, the Principal has entered into an Agreement (attached) with the
Obligee for the maintenance of the following physical improvements:
         Asphalt - Intermediate Course      Asphalt Surface Course
         Curbs                  Erosion Control
         Final Grading & Lawn Preparation   Lot Drainage
         Survey Monumentation         Multi-Use Paths
         Sanitary Sewer             Sidewalks
         Storm Drainage            Street Base (stone, asphalt, etc.)
         Street Lights                Street Signs
         Water
System                                                                                                                                       
as required by the Fortville Town Code in accordance with all the provisions of
the ordinances, rules, and regulations of the Town of Fortville, Indiana; and
WHEREAS, the above named principal did on the       day of
                              , 20     , enter into a certain Agreement
(attached) with the Town of Fortville to maintain for a period of 36 months
from                    , 20     ,the improvements in (Name/Section)
Subdivision, and keep all items indicated above constructed by him in good
condition, and shall make such repairs to any defects in materials or
workmanship as may develop or be discovered when called upon to do so by the
Town of Fortville.
NOW THEREFORE, if the aforesaid Principal shall well and truly and faithfully
perform said contract and comply with all its terms, covenants, and conditions,
according to its tenor and discharge all of said principal's obligations
hereunder and shall fully pay and discharge all of said principal's obligations
to the Town of Fortville, Indiana, then this obligation shall be null and void;
otherwise to be and remain in full force, effect, and virtue.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, we have set our hands, in the presence of the two
undersigned competent witnesses this day, month and year above written.
By:                                                                    By:
                                                          Company Name
(Principal)               Surety Company
                                                                                                                       
   Signature                   Signature of Attorney-in-Fact
                                                                                                                          
   Type/Print Signatory’s Name and Title         Type/Print Attorney-in-Fact
Subscribed and sworn before me, a Notary Public, in and for said County and
State, this          day of                           , 20      .
   Notary Public
   County of Residence
   Commission Expiration
Attached:   Executed Maintenance Bond
      Executed Performance Bond Agreement
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX V: RELEASE OF MAINTENANCE BOND
WHEREAS, the Principal and Surety Company have posted a Maintenance Bond(s) for
the maintenance of improvements and installations (the "Improvements") required
by the Fortville Town Code and all other applicable ordinances and regulations
of the Town of Fortville for Section        of                     and
                                          
    (Name of Subdivision)
WHEREAS, the Bond(s) is/are applicable to the following improvements (Check all
items to be covered by this Release):
         Asphalt - Intermediate Course      Asphalt - Surface Course
         Curbs                  Erosion Control
         Final Grading & Lawn Preparation   Lot Drainage
         Monumentation            Multi-Use Paths
         Sanitary Sewer            Sidewalks
         Storm Drainage            Street Base (stone, asphalt, etc.)
         Street Lights               Street Signs
         Water
System                                                                                                                                                                                                           
WHEREAS, the Improvements have been maintained at the Principal's own expense
for a period of not less than 36 months after the date on which said
Improvements were accepted for public maintenance by the Town of Fortville.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Maintenance Bond(s) issued for the above-indicated
improvements is/are hereby released.
ATTEST: TOWN OF FORTVILLE
                                                                               
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
APPENDIX W: SECONDARY PLAT SIGN-OFF LIST
   (used prior to recordation of Plat)
                                       Plan Commission
                                       Drainage Approval
                                       Address Approval
                                       Erosion Control Plan Approval
                                       Town Engineer Approval
                                       County Board of Health Approval (if
applicable)
                                       Planning Director Approval
                                       Public Works Director (Town Manager)
Approval
Name of Subdivision
Location
                                                                                                        
(Petitioner’s or Agent’s Signature)                   (Date)
(Ord. 2020-1D, passed 1-6-20)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   RENAMING STREETS
      
II.   VACATIONS
      
III.   ZONING CHANGES
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: RENAMING STREETS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
—      - -         The following streets are renamed:
1949     1-5-49   South corporation line to Garden Street.
                    
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Vacating the following described section of a public alley: that part of
1992- 10-13- the entire width of the alley that adjoins the northwest side of Lot 1 in
10A   92     Arnett’s First Addition to the town, as per plat thereof recorded in Plat
             book 2, pages 73 and 74 in the office of the Recorder of Hancock County,
             Indiana.
             Vacating part of the Central Addition to the town as per plat thereof
1995- 11-28- recorded in Plat Cabinet A, Slide No. 74 in the office of the Recorder of
11A   95     Hancock County, which property commences at the northwest corner of Lot 1
             in said Central Addition.
1999- 6-8-99 Vacating a north/south alley between Lots 7 and 8 in Merrill’s Addition.
5C
2008- 8-18-  Vacating an alley at the northern most corner of Lot 1, Block K.
8A    08
2010- 5-17-  Vacating a public way the entire length of Ash Street from its intersection
4A    10     with Pearl Street southward to its point of termination.
            
 
TABLE III: ZONING CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1989- 8-8-89 Rezoning the property located at 325 E. Staat St., owned by Larry Yeley
8A           from R-1 to R-3.
1992- 4-14-  Rezoning a part of the northeast quarter of Section 16, Township 17 North,
4A    92     Range 6 East from R-1 to B-1.
1992- 8-11-  Rezoning a part of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of
8A    92     Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6 East from B-2 to I-1.
1998- 7-28-  Rezoning a part of Section 9, Township 17, Range 6.
7A    98
1999- 3-9-99 Rezoning a part of Section 10, Township 17, Range 6 from R-2 to I-1.
3A
1999- 5-11-  Rezoning property described in Exhibit A to this ordinance from R-2 to PD-
5A    99     R.
1999- 5-11-  Rezoning property described in Exhibit A to this ordinance from R-2 to B-2.
5B    99
2000- 7-25-  Rezoning a part of the south half of the northeast quarter of Section 9,
7A    00     Township 17 North, Range 6 East from R-2 to R-4.
2001- 5-8-01 Rezoning Lot 107 and the west half of Lot 108 in Central Addition from R-
5A           2 to B-2.
2004- 11-9-  Rezoning property described in Exhibit A to this ordinance from R-1 to I-1.
11A   04
2007- 11-19- Rezoning property described in Exhibit A to this ordinance from R-1 to R-
11C   07     3.5 and CC.
2007- 4-1-07 Rezoning property described in Exhibit A to this ordinance from R-2 to R-3.
4A
2009- 9-8-09 Rezoning property described in Exhibit A to this ordinance from R3.5 to CN.
9A
2009- 12-21- Rezoning property described in Exhibit A to this ordinance from CN to CR.
12C   09
2012- 11-14- Rezoning property described in Exhibit A to this ordinance from R3.5 to CC.
11E   12
2015- 12-7-  Rezoning property described in Exhibit A to this ordinance from CN to IL.
12A   15
2017- 7-2-17 Rezoning real estate located at 519 N. Merrill Street from CN to R3.5.
6C
2017- 11-6-  Rezoning real estate located near North Main Street, approximately 150 feet
7A    17     south of the centerline of Carolina Street from CN to R3.5.
2018- 2-5-18 Rezoning real estate located east of Flat Rock Creek Subdivision and north
1B           of West Statt Street from R2.5 to PUD.
2018- 6-4-18 Rezoning real estate located south of the intersection of E. Ohio St. and
5A           Emerson Drive from I-1 to IL.
2018- 12-17- Rezoning real estate (Spencer property) from R3.5 to R1.0.
9E    18
2018- 12-3-  Rezoning real estate located north of Ohio Street and southwest of Merrill
11A   18     Street from R2.5 to PUD.
2020- 4-6-20 Rezoning real estate (Indy Properties Group, LLC) being three acres at 738
3B           W. Broadway Street from CN to IL.
2020- 6-1-20 Rezoning real estate (D&J Real Estate Properties, LLC) being 1.2 acres at
3C           9574 N. Fortville Pike from R1.0 to R3.5.
2020- 8-3-20 Rezoning real estate (Madison Village) from IG to PUD.
7B
2020- 10-5-  Rezoning real estate (Barnhart property) from R3.5 to IN.
9C    20
2021- 4-5-21 Rezoning real estate (410 S. Oak Street) from R3.5 to CC.
3A
2021- 6-7-21 Rezoning real estate (314 S. Elm Street) from split zoning of R3.5 and CC
5B           to all CC.
2021- 7-19-  Rezoning real estate (1700 W. State Road 234; Literal property) from R1.0
5D    21     to IN.
2021- 7-6-21 Rezoning real estate (8283 N. 200 West; Meyer property) from R3.5 to IN.
6A
2021- 9-7-21 Rezoning real estate (Beyers Farm LLC; Beyers Estates PUD) from R1.0 to
7A           PUD.
2022- 4-4-22 Rezoning real estate (Thursday Pools expansion property; south side of Ohio
3C           Street) — 28.3 acres from R1.0 to IL, and 51.6 acres from R1.0 to A.
2022- 9-19-  Rezoning real estate (Ridgeview West PUD) from R3.5 to PUD.
6D    22
            
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Annexing to the town part of the east half of the northwest quarter
1987- 1-27-  of Section 9, Township 17 North, Range 6 east; and a part of the
1A    87     southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 9, Township 17
             North, Range 6 East.
1987- 12-15- Annexing to the town a part of the northwest quarter of the
12A   87     northwest quarter of Section 15, Township 17 North, Range 6 East.
             Annexing to the town a parcel of real estate commencing at the
             northeast corner of the west half of the northeast quarter of the
1993- 4-27-  southwest quarter of Section 9, Township 17 North, Range 6 East; and
4B    93     a part of the east half northeast quarter of the southwest quarter
             and a part of the southeast quarter of Section 9, Township 17 North,
             Range 6 East.
             Annexing to the town a part of the southeast quarter of the
1993- 6-8-93 southwest quarter of Section 9, Township 17 North, Range 6 East; and
6A           the south part of the east half of the northeast quarter of the
             southwest quarter of Section 9, Township 17 North, Range 6 East.
             Annexing to the town the following tracts of land in the north half
             of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6 East: Tract I being
             Colonial Village Subdivision, Tract II being all that part of the
             right-of-way of Indiana State Highway No. 67 which is situated
             between the west right-of-way line of Madison Street and the east
1993- 6-22-  line of the above referenced Colonial Village Subdivision extended
6B    93     northerly along the east line of the northwest quarter of Section
             10, Township 17 North, Range 6 East, containing 4.9 acres, more or
             less; and Tract III, all that part of the right-of-way of Hancock
             County Road 1050 North which is situated between the west right-of-
             way line of Madison Street and the southeast corner of the west half
             of the northeast quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6
             East, containing 1.7 acres, more or less.
1994- 11-8-  Annexing to the town a part of the west half of the northeast
10C   94     quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
             Range 6 East.
1994- 12-13- Annexing to the town a part of the north half of the northeast
12A   94     quarter of Section 9, Township 17 North, Range 6 East.
1995- 8-8-95 Annexing to the town a part of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range
8B           6 East.
             Annexing to the town the following tracts of land: a part of the
             southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 9, Township 17
             North, Range 6 East; a part of the southwest quarter of Section 10,
             Township 17 North, Range 6 East; 215 feet of uniform width off of
1996- 4-23-  the entire north side of a parcel of land lying in the southwest
4C    96     quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6 East; Lot 1 in
             Sizemore Minor Subdivision; a parcel beginning at a point on the
             north line of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of
             Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6 East; and Miller’s Minor
             Subdivision.
1996- 4-23-  Annexing to the town a part of the east half of the northwest
4D    96     quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
             Range 6 East.
             Annexing to the town the following tracts of land: a part of the
             east half of the northwest quarter of Section 9, Township 17 North,
             Range 6 East; land commencing at the point of intersection of the
             south line of the west half of the northwest quarter of Section 10,
             Township 17 North, Range 6 East and the northerly right-of- way line
             of State Road No. 67; a part of the northwest quarter of Section 10,
             Township 17 North, Range 6 East; land commencing at the point of
             intersection of the south line of the west half of the northwest
             quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6 East; a part of
             the northwest quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6
1998- 2-24-  East; part of the north middle division of the northwest quarter of
1B    98     the southwest quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6
             East; a north middle division of the northwest quarter of the
             southwest quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6 East; a
             parcel of land lying in the southwest quarter of Section 10,
             Township 17 North, Range 6 East; a strip of land formerly used as a
             right-of- way for an interurban electric railroad situated in the
             northwest quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6 East;
             land commencing at the point of intersection of the south line of
             the west half of the northwest quarter of Section 10, Township 17
             North, Range 6 East and the northerly right-of- way line of State
             Road No. 67; and a part of the northeast quarter of the northwest
             quarter of Section 16, Township 17 North, Range 6 East.
1999- 6-22-  Annexing to the town part of the southwest quarter of Section 9,
6A    99     Township 17 North, Range 6 East, containing 37.628 acres, more or
             less.
2000- 12-12- Annexing to the town the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter
11A   00     of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6 East, containing 40 acres,
             more or less, with exceptions.
2001- 10-30- Annexing to the town land beginning at the southeast corner of the
9A    01     northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 16, Township
             17 North, Range 6 East, containing 31.28 acres, more or less.
             Annexing to the town a part of the southwest quarter of the
2001- 10-30- southwest quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6 East;
9B    01     and land beginning at a point on the south line of the southwest
             quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 6 East, containing
             2.125 acres, more or less.
2001- 10-30- Annexing to the town land beginning at a point 15 feet north and 360
9C    01     feet east of the northwest corner of Lot 7 in Central Addition to
             the town.
2003- 6-10-  Annexing to the town certain real estate containing 76.42 acres more
5A    03     or less generally known as the Robert M. Manker property.
2005- 1-10-  Annexing to the town certain real estate containing 30.157 acres
5A    06     more or less.
2006- 10-16- Annexing to the town a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 9,
8B    06     Township 17 North, Range 6 East.
2007- 11-19- Annexing to the town certain real estate containing 91.1 acres more
9B    07     or less.
2007- 11-19- Annexing to the town certain real estate containing 72.34 acres more
9C    07     or less.
2007- 11-19- Annexing to the town certain real estate containing 41.4 acres more
9D    07     or less.
2007- 11-19- Annexing to the town certain real estate containing 111.25 acres
9E    07     more or less.
2007- 11-19- Annexing to the town certain real estate containing 454.6 acres more
9F    07     or less.
2007- 11-19- Annexing to the town certain real estate containing 5.29 acres more
10B   07     or less generally known as Noel Lane.
2008- 6-16-  Annexing to the town certain real estate containing 3 acres more or
5B    08     less.
2011- 11-21- Annexing to the town certain real estate containing a total of 1.3
11B   11     acres more or less.
2012- 3-19-  Annexing to the town Lot No. 9 and the western portion of Lot No. 11
3A    12     in Alford’s Subdivision containing approximately .94 acres more or
             less.
2012- 6-18-  Annexing to the town certain real estate containing approximately
5A    12     1.122 acres more or less.
2012- 7-16-  Annexing to the town certain real estate containing approximately 17
6A    12     acres more or less.
2013- 7-15-  Annexing to the town 664 acres contiguous to the corporate limits of
3A    13     the town and commonly referred to as CR 300 West annexation area.
2016-        Annexing to the town 0.92 acres, and the annexation territory is
8B    - -16  contiguous to the existing town boundaries as described in Exhibit A
             attached to this ordinance.
2017- 5-15-  Annexing to the town 3.92 acres plus adjacent unincorporated right-
3B    17     of-way, contiguous to the existing town.
2018- 11-5-  Annexing to the town 93 acres commonly known as Wilson-Ecoff- Arora
9A    18     properties and Methodist Church properties.
2018- 11-5-  Annexing to the town 55 acres commonly known as Beyers Farm LLC
9B    18     (West) property.
2018- 11-5-  Annexing to the town 21.5 acres commonly known as the Property Pros
9C    18     Property at 1200 E. Broadway Street.
2020- 3-16-  Annexing to the town 1.2 acres commonly known as 9574 N. Fortville
1H    20     Pike.
2020- 10-19- Annexing to the town 112 acres plus adjacent right-of-way commonly
5B    20     known as the Beyers Farm property.
2020- 8-17-  Annexing to the town approximately 60 acres plus adjacent right-of-
7A    20     way commonly known as 930 W. 1050 North.
2021- 7-19-  Annexing to the town approximately 18.75 acres plus adjacent right-
5C    21     of-way commonly known as 1700 W. State Road 234.
2022-        Annexing to the town approximately 78.98 acres commonly known as the
3B    4-4-22 Commerce Industries, LLC/Thursday Pools Expansion Property (south
             side of Ohio Street).
2022-        Annexing to the town approximately 1.01 acres commonly know as the
6B    8-1-22 Caudell Simmons Vernon Township Cemetery Property (1403 W. 1050
             North, south side of Ohio Street).
2022- 8-1-22 Annexing to the town approximately 1.55 acres commonly known as 9168
6C           North 200 West.
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1987 Code of Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section               Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.12
1-1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08
3-8-1-1.5                  36.02
3-8-5-2(a)(2)              31.06
3-8-5-2(e)                 31.06
4-21.5-3-7                 150.54
5-1-14-14                  34.32
5-2-8-2                    34.22
5-3-1                      156.037
5-4-1                      32.09
5-4-1-18                   31.03
5-11-1-27                  34.06
5-11-10                    31.06,
                           34.05
5-11-10-1.6                34.35
5-22-8-2                   34.73
5-22-8-3                   34.73
5-22-10-10                 34.73
6-1.1-18.5-9.8             34.32
6-3.5-7-13.1(b)(2)(D)      34.32
6-3.5-7-13.1(b)(2)(E)      34.32
6-3.5-7-13.6               34.32
6-7-1-30.1                 34.20
6-7-1-31.1                 34.20
7.1-3-9-3                  110.21
8-1-34-30                  110.20
8-1.5-3-4                  51.05
8-3-1-1                    70.18
8-6-1-1                    70.18
9-9-1.1-5                  92.36
9-18-12                    92.38
9-21-1-1 et seq.           70.01
9-21-9-5                   74.03
9-21-16-5                  71.01
9-22-1-1                   92.36
9-22-1-13                  92.36
9-22-1-14                  92.36
9-22-1-19                  92.36
9-22-1-20(3)(B) (Repealed) 92.36
9-22-1-21                  92.36
14-32                      53.001
14-34                      53.055,
                           53.070
15-2.1-6-11                93.03,
                           93.05
15-7-6                     93.05
15-17-6-11                 93.02
22-9-1-4 et seq.           90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.           90.01
22-9.5-2-2                 90.02
22-9.5-2-3                 90.02
22-9.5-2-4                 90.02
22-9.5-2-8                 90.02
22-9.5-2-9                 90.02
22-9.5-2-11                90.02
22-9.5-2-13                90.02
22-9.5-3                   90.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.           90.10
22-9.5-4-8                 90.11
22-9.5-5                   90.02
22-9.5-5-1                 90.03
22-9.5-6                   90.02,
                           90.11
22-11-21-9                 150.21
22-11-21-10                150.23
22-12                      150.54
22-12-1-4                  150.03
22-12-1-5                  150.03
22-12-1-6                  150.03
22-12-1-7                  150.03
22-12-1-14                 150.03
22-12-1-16                 150.03
22-12-1-17                 150.03
22-12-1-18                 150.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12)          150.65
22-12-1-26                 150.03
22-12-7                    150.05
22-13                      150.54
22-13-2-3(b)               32.06,
                           150.65
22-13-2-5                  150.09
22-13-2-6                  150.04
22-13-2-7                  150.54
22-13-2-7(b)               150.65
22-13-2-9                  150.04
22-13-2-11                 150.05
22-14                      150.54
22-15                      150.54
22-15-3-1                  150.21
22-15-4                    150.04
31-6-4-15.71               30.03
31-37-5                    130.04
31-37-19-27                130.03
32-34                      154.04
32-34-1 (Repealed)         50.04
33-36-2-1 et seq.          35.01
33-36-2-3                  35.01
33-37-8-4                  34.22
34-23-1-5                  34.31
34-24-1-9                  34.31
34-34-1-1                  34.31
35-47-2-3                  34.23
36-1-3-1 - 36-1-3-9        30.06
36-1-3-8                   52.130
36-1-3-8(a)(5)             110.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-5-4                   150.65,
                           150.66
36-1-6-4                   150.53
36-1-7-1 - 36-1-7-12       34.03
36-4-6-14                  30.09
36-5-1-10.1                30.02
36-5-2-2                   30.04
36-5-2-4.1                 30.02
36-5-2-5                   30.02
36-5-2-7                   30.04
36-5-2-8                   31.21
36-5-2-9                   30.06
36-5-2-9.2                 30.05
36-5-2-9.4 - 36-5-2-9.8    30.05
36-5-2-9.8                 Adopting Ordinance
                           30.10,
36-5-3-2                   31.02,
                           31.22,
                           33.01
36-5-4-11                  110.03
36-5-4-12                  34.04
36-5-5-1 - 36-5-5-8        31.01
36-5-6-2                   31.21
36-5-6-3                   31.20
36-5-6-5                   31.21
36-5-6-6                   31.21
36-5-6-6(b)(8)             110.03
36-5-6-7                   31.23
36-7-4                     32.04,
                           156.002
36-7-4-202                 32.04
36-7-4-207                 32.04
36-7-4-706                 156.037
36-7-9                     32.03,
                           32.06
36-7-10.1-4                92.03
36-7-11.9                  32.10
36-7-12                    32.10
36-7-12-5(b)               32.10
36-7-12-5(c)               32.10
36-7-12-9                  32.10
36-7-14.5                  32.09
36-7.5-4-2                 34.32
36-8-2-8                   92.02
36-8-2-10                  110.01
36-8-3-4                   32.07
36-8-3-4.1                 32.07
36-8-3-20                  33.01
36-8-17                    150.36
36-8-19-8.5                34.34
36-9-2-17                  50.03
36-9-15.5                  34.33
36-9-30                    54.06
36-10-2-2                  91.01
                           
 
REFERENCES TO 1987 CODE OF ORDINANCES
1987 Code Section 2003 Code Section
1987 Code Section 2003 Code Section
Ch. 2, Art. I     33.22
2-1               31.20
Ch. 2, Art. II    33.23
2-2               31.21
Ch. 2, Art. III   33.24
2-3               31.22
2-4               31.23
Ch. 2, Art. IV    33.25
Ch. 2, Art. V     33.26
Ch. 2, Art. VI    33.27
Ch. 2, Art. VII   33.28
2-12              33.01
2-13              33.01
2-19              33.20
2-20              33.21
2-24              31.01
2-25              31.02
2-26              31.03
2-37              33.02
2-39              33.02
2-40              33.02
2-45              32.01
2-50              32.02
2-51              32.03
2-56              34.20
2-57              34.21
2-59              34.23
2-60              34.24
2-61              34.25
2-69              34.03
2-70              34.03
3-4               30.04
3-5               30.05
3-6               30.06
3-10              30.07
3-11              30.08
3-12              30.09
3-13              30.10
4-1               110.01
4-2               110.02
4-3               110.03
4-7               110.21
5-1               91.01
5-12              91.03
5-13              91.04
6-1               93.20
6-2               93.21
6-3               93.22
6-15              93.23
6-16              93.23
6-17              93.23
6-27              92.01
6-48              92.02
6-49              92.02
7-10              94.15
7-11              94.16
7-12              94.17
7-17              94.30
7-18              94.31
7-22              94.01
7-25              94.45
7-26              94.46
7-27              94.47
7-28              94.48
7-29              94.49
7-30              94.50
8-1               70.01
8-6               Ch. 73, Sch. II
8-7               Ch. 73, Sch.III
8-10              71.01
8-11              71.02
8-14              Ch. 73, Sch. V
8-17              71.04
8-26              Ch. 72, Sch. I
8-36              70.15
8-37              70.15
8-39              Ch. 72, Sch. II
8-44              70.18
8-45              70.18
8-57              70.16
9-49              51.01
9-50              51.02
9-51              51.03
9-61              51.04
9-62              51.05
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
–          - -         T.S.O. I
3-1925       8-11-25     70.15
10-1930      10-17-30    94.30,
                         94.31
1-1936       7-1-36      94.17
1949-        1-5-49      T.S.O. I
1952-        8-19-52     70.16
1953-        7-14-53     94.01
–          4-4-61      92.02
                         Ch. 72, Sch. II,
1963-        3-12-63     Ch. 73, Sch. II,
                         Ch. 73, Sch. III
1964-        7-7-64      Ch. 73, Sch. V
1965-6A      6-22-65     70.18
1966-        7-26-66     70.18
1968-10A     10-22-68    51.03
1969-7A      7-8-69      Ch. 72, Sch. II
1971-9A      9-28-71     33.20
1971-11A     11-9-71     Ch. 73, Sch. V
1976-1A      1-27-76     33.01
1976-6D      6-22-76     91.03,
                         91.04
1977-7A      7-12-77     70.15
1977-9A      9-13-77     71.04
1977-11A     11-8-77     94.15,
                         94.16
1978-5C      5-23-78     71.01,
                         71.02
                         94.45,
1978-8A      8-8-78      94.47 -
                         94.50
1979-2D      2-27-79     93.23
1979-4A      4-10-79     94.45 -
                         94.48
1980-6B      6-18-80     51.01,
                         51.02
1983-6B      6-28-83     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1984-4A      4-10-84     93.20 -
                         93.22
1984-6A      6-12-84     32.02
1984-7E      7-24-84     32.02,
                         32.03
1984-11A     11-13-84    92.01
1985-6A      6-11-85     33.02
1987-1A      1-27-87     T.S.O. IV
1987-12A     12-15-87    T.S.O. IV
1989-3A      3-28-89     Ch. 72, Sch. III
1989-8A      8-8-89      T.S.O. III
1992-4A      4-14-92     T.S.O. III
1992-5A      5-12-92     92.03
1992-8A      8-11-92     T.S.O. III
1992-10A     10-13-92    T.S.O. II
1992-12B     12-22-92    30.01 -
                         30.03
1993-1B      1-12-93     33.29
                         71.03 -
                         71.05,
1993-1C      2-9-93      91.03,
                         91.05 -
                         91.08,
                         92.01
1993-4A      4-13-93     31.05
1993-4B      4-27-93     T.S.O. IV
1993-6A      6-8-93      T.S.O. IV
1993-6B      6-22-93     T.S.O. IV
1993-8A      8-10-93     51.02
1993-9A      9-14-93     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1993-9G      9-27-93     Ch. 156, Appx. I
1994-4A      4-26-94     30.02
1994-5A      5-10-94     Ch. 72, Sch. II
                         90.01 -
1994-9A      9-13-94     90.08,
                         90.10,
                         90.11
1994-10C     11-8-94     T.S.O. IV
1994-12A     12-13-94    T.S.O. IV
1995-8B      8-8-95      T.S.O. IV
1995-10A     11-14-95    110.20
1995-11A     11-28-95    T.S.O. II
1996-4C      4-23-96     T.S.O. IV
1996-4D      4-23-96     T.S.O. IV
                         93.01 -
1997-7A      7-15-97     93.05,
                         93.35 -
                         93.37
1998-1B      2-24-98     T.S.O. IV
                         130.01 -
1998-4B      5-12-98     130.04,
                         130.99
1998-4C      5-12-98     35.01
1998-5B      6-9-98      70.17
1998-6A      6-23-98     34.01
1998-7A      7-28-98     T.S.O. III
1998-9A      10-13-98    30.01
1999-3A      3-9-99      T.S.O. III
1999-5A      5-11-99     T.S.O. III
1999-5B      5-11-99     T.S.O. III
1999-5C      6-8-99      T.S.O. II
1999-6A      6-22-99     T.S.O. IV
2000-4A      4-25-00     Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2000-4C      4-25-00     35.01
2000-7A      7-25-00     T.S.O. III
2000-9A      - -00       Ch. 73, Sch. I, Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2000-10A     10-10-00    35.01
2000-10B     - -00       Ch. 72, Sch. I
2000-11A     12-12-00    T.S.O. IV
                         52.001 -
                         52.007,
                         52.020 -
                         52.025,
                         52.035 -
                         52.038,
                         52.050 -
                         52.055,
2000-11B     11-28-00    52.065 -
                         52.072,
                         52.085 -
                         52.097,
                         52.110 -
                         52.113,
                         52.125 -
                         52.140,
                         52.999
2000-12B     12-28-00    31.04
2001-5A      5-8-01      T.S.O. III
2001-7A      - -01       Ch. 72, Sch. I
2001-9A      10-30-01    T.S.O. IV
2001-9B      10-30-01    T.S.O. IV
2001-9C      10-30-01    T.S.O. IV
2001-12B     12-20-01    94.02
2003-5A      - -02       152.01
                         92.15 -
2002-5A      5-28-02     92.28,
                         92.99
2002-6A      7-24-02     Ch. 72, Sch. I
2002-6B      6-11-02     Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2002-6C      6-25-02     92.03
                         95.01 -
2002-7A      9-24-02     95.22,
                         95.99
2002-8A      - -02       34.27
2002-10A     10-22-02    32.05
2002-12C     1-14-03     Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                         Ch. 73, Sch. IV
2003-5A      6-10-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-5B      10-7-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-7A      7-8-03      32.02
2003-7B      7-29-03     Ch. 73, Sch. I
2003-10B     10-14-03    Adopting Ordinance
2003-11A     12-9-03     31.06
2004-2A      3-10-04     T.S.O. IV
2004-11A     11-9-04     T.S.O. III
2005-5A      1-10-06     T.S.O. IV
2005-10A     10-25-05    70.19,
                         70.99
2006-3-A     3-28-06     34.29
2006-5A      5-9-06      32.06
2006-5B      8-4-06      93.01,
                         93.37
2006-8B      10-16-06    T.S.O. IV
2006-11A     - -06       36.01 -
                         36.03
2007-1-A     1-15-07     31.04
2007-4A      4-1-07      T.S.O. III
2007-5A      5-21-07     34.30
2007-9B      11-19-07    T.S.O. IV
2007-9C      11-19-07    T.S.O. IV
2007-9D      11-19-07    T.S.O. IV
2007-9E      11-19-07    T.S.O. IV
2007-9F      11-19-07    T.S.O. IV
2007-9G      9-17-07     34.50 -
                         34.60
2007-10B     11-19-07    T.S.O. IV
2007-11A     11-19-07    153.01
2007-11C     11-19-07    T.S.O. III
2007-12C     12-17-07    34.04
                         92.15,
2008-2A      3-17-08     92.35 -
                         92.42,
                         92.99
2008-5B      6-16-08     T.S.O. IV
2008-8A      8-18-08     T.S.O. II
2008-8B      10-20-08    93.20
2008-9A      - -08       34.65 -
                         34.73
2008-10A     10-20-08    34.22
2008-11A     - -08       34.31
                         71.06 -
2008-11C     - -08       71.08,
                         Ch. 73, Sch. I
2008-12B     12-4-08     31.04
2009-2A      2-16-09     31.04
2009-3A      4-20-09     31.04
2009-5B      5-18-09     Adopting Ordinance
2009-5C      5-18-09     34.05
2009-8A      8-17-09     37.01 -
                         37.14
2009-9A      9-8-09      T.S.O. III
2009-9B      10-19-09    92.01
2009-12C     12-21-09    T.S.O. III
2009-12D     12-21-09    34.22
2010-2A      3-15-10     70.16
2010-3A      4-5-10      71.05
2010-4A      5-17-10     T.S.O. II
2010-6B      7-6-10      91.09
2010-11A     11-15-10    34.32
2010-12A     1-17-11     35.01,
                         35.02
2011-02A     2-22-11     34.28
2011-4A      4-4-11      35.03
2011-5A      5-16-11     35.03
2011-5B      5-16-11     35.04
2011-6A      7-5-11      Ch. 72, Sch. I
2011-6B      7-5-11      Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2011-11A     11-21-11    52.004
2011-11B     11-21-11    T.S.O. IV
2012-2B      3-5-12      52.150 -
                         52.158
2012-3A      3-19-12     T.S.O. IV
2012-3B      4-16-12     92.27,
                         92.99
2012-5A      6-18-12     T.S.O. IV
                         93.02 -
                         93.05,
2012-5B      6-4-12      93.20,
                         93.35,
                         93.37
2012-6A      7-16-12     T.S.O. IV
2012-6B      7-2-12      96.01
2012-8B      9-4-12      31.04
2012-11A     11-19-12    Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2012-11B     11-19-12    70.16
2012-11C     12-3-12     30.02
2012-11E     11-14-12    T.S.O. III
Res. 2013-2B 2-19-13     96.02
Res. 2013-2A 2-19-13     50.01 -
                         50.20
2013-3A      7-15-13     T.S.O. IV
2013-6B      6-17-13     34.33
2013-7C      7-15-13     35.05
2013-7D      8-5-13      Adopting Ordinance
2014-1A      1-21-14     153.01
2014-3A      4-7-14      32.07
                         11.01,
                         11.02,
                         50.09,
                         50.16,
                         70.18,
                         70.20 -
                         70.24,
2014-4A      4-21-14     71.05,
                         71.06,
                         92.04,
                         94.30,
                         97.01 -
                         97.08,
                         97.99,
                         130.15
2014-5A      5-5-14      32.07
2015-4A      5-9-15      52.004
2015-12A     12-7-15     T.S.O. III
2016-2A      2-1-16      34.05
2016-7A      7-5-16      34.06
2016-7C      8-1-16      Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                         IV
2016-8A      8-1-16      50.04
2016-8B      - -16       T.S.O. IV
2016-8C      10-3-16     32.08
2016-10A     11-7-16     94.02
2016-11B     11-21-16    94.03
                         11.02,
2017-3A      3-20-17     54.01 -
                         54.05,
                         54.99
2017-3B      5-15-17     T.S.O. IV
2017-5B      6-5-17      92.27
2017-5C      6-5-17      32.08
2017-6C      7-2-17      T.S.O. III
                         11.02,
2017-6D      7-3-17      74.01 -
                         74.05
2017-6E      7-3-17      Ch. 72, Sch. I
2017-7A      11-6-17     T.S.O. III
2017-8A      10-16-17    151.01
2018-1A      2-5-18      152.01
2018-1B      2-5-18      T.S.O. III
                         154.01 -
2018-2A      2-20-18     154.04,
                         155.01 -
                         155.09
2018-2B      3-5-18      Adopting Ordinance
2018-5A      6-4-18      T.S.O. III
                         98.01 -
2018-6C      7-2-18      98.04,
                         98.99
2018-6D      7-2-18      110.20
2018-7A      8-6-18      91.09
2018-9A      11-5-18     T.S.O. IV
2018-9B      11-5-18     T.S.O. IV
2018-9C      11-5-18     T.S.O. IV
2018-9E      12-17-18    T.S.O. III
2018-11A     12-3-18     T.S.O. III
2018-12A     1-7-19      11.01
                         35.03,
2019-4A      5-20-19     97.01 -
                         97.08,
                         97.99
                         11.02,
2019-9A      9-3-19      94.60,
                         94.61
2019-9B      10-7-19     31.04
2019-9E      10-7-19     11.01,
                         54.06
2020-1A      1-6-20      32.04
2020-1B      1-6-20      151.01
2020-1C      1-6-20      152.01
                         156.001 -
                         156.006,
                         156.008,
                         156.009,
                         156.020,
                         156.021,
                         156.023,
                         156.035 -
                         156.037,
                         156.050 -
                         156.056,
                         156.070 -
2020-1D      1-6-20      156.076,
                         156.078,
                         156.090 -
                         156.094,
                         156.096 -
                         156.098,
                         156.110,
                         156.120 -
                         156.125,
                         Ch. 156, Appx. A -
                         I,
                         Appx. K -
                         W
                         53.001 -
                         53.013,
                         53.025 -
                         53.031,
                         53.040 -
                         53.046,
                         53.055 -
2020-1E      1-6-20      53.058,
                         53.070 -
                         53.074,
                         53.085 -
                         53.094,
                         53.105 -
                         53.108,
                         53.115
2020-1G      1-6-20      11.01
2020-1H      3-16-20     T.S.O. IV
2020-1I      2-3-20      11.01
2020-3A      3-16-20     Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2020-3B      4-6-20      T.S.O. III
2020-5B      10-19-20    T.S.O. IV
2020-5C      6-1-20      T.S.O. III
2020-6B      10-5-20     51.06
2020-6C      6-17-20     34.34
2020-6D      6-17-20     34.34
2020-7A      8-17-20     T.S.O. IV
2020-7B      8-3-20      T.S.O. III
2020-9B      9-21-20     Ch. 72, Sch. I
2020-9C      10-5-20     T.S.O. III
2020-12A     12-21-20    Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2021-2A      2-16-21     90.01 -
                         90.12
2021-3A      4-5-21      T.S.O. III
2021-4A      5-3-21      74.01 -
                         74.05
2021-5A      5-17-21     34.35
2021-5B      6-7-21      T.S.O. III
2021-5C      7-19-21     T.S.O. IV
2021-5D      7-19-21     T.S.O. III
2021-6A      7-6-21      T.S.O. III
2021-7A      9-7-21      T.S.O. III
2021-9B      9-7-21      32.09
                         150.01 -
                         150.09,
                         150.20 -
                         150.24,
                         150.35,
2021-9C      10-4-21     150.36,
                         150.50 -
                         150.54,
                         150.65,
                         150.66,
                         150.99
2021-11A     11-1-21     32.10
2022-3B      4-4-22      T.S.O. IV
2022-3C      4-4-22      T.S.O. III
2022-3D      4-4-22      91.09
2022-3D1     4-18-22     91.09
2022-3E      4-4-22      34.34
2022-3E.1    4-18-22     91.09
2022-6A      6-20-22     110.22
2022-6B      8-1-22      T.S.O. IV
2022-6C      8-1-22      T.S.O. IV
2022-6D      9-19-22     T.S.O. III
2022-9A      10-3-22     11.01
2022-10A     - -22       Ch. 72, Sch. I
2022-11A     12-5-22     11.01,
                         54.06
2022-12B     12-19-22    30.02
2022-12C     1-3-23      152.01
                        
 
 
 
