TOWN OF FREMONT, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-10, passed 12-29-2022
State legislation current through 2022 Advanced Legislative Service No. #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
OF
FREMONT, INDIANA
 
TOWN COUNCIL
PRESIDENT Steven Brown
          
MEMBER    Ashlee Hoos
MEMBER    Linda Fulton
MEMBER    Barry Wilcox
MEMBER    Dr. William Stitt
TOWN OFFICIALS
CLERK-TREASURER           Mary K. Parsons, IAMC/MMC/CPFA/CPFIM/CPM/CMO
FIRE CHIEF                Eric Hufnagle
TOWN MARSHAL              Joe Patterson
TOWN ATTORNEY             Kurt Bachman
STREET SUPERINTENDENT     Jeff Grimm
WATER SUPERINTENDENT      Jeff Olds
WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT Jim Masters
 
CONTACT INFORMATION
Municipal Address: P.O. Box 602
                   205 N. Tolford Street
                   Fremont, IN 46737
Phone Number:      260-495-7805
Fax:               260-495-2446
Website:           www.townoffremont.org
Email:             fremontct@townoffremont.org
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
TOWN OF FREMONT
ORDINANCE 2007-07
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF FREMONT REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Fremont
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
   WHEREAS, the provisions of the Indiana Code empower and authorize the Town
of Fremont to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any existing
ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to
incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Fremont has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of Fremont
of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FREMONT,
INDIANA, THAT:
   SECTION I
The general ordinances of the Town of Fremont as revised, amended, restated,
codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall constitute
the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Fremont."
   SECTION II
Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
Titles:
      Title I: General Provisions
      Title III: Administration
      Title V: Public Works
      Title VII: Traffic Code
      Title IX: General Regulations
      Title XI: Business Regulations
      Title XIII: General Offenses
      Title XV: Land Usage
   SECTION III
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase of sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   SECTION IV
Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and approval
by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Fremont is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   SECTION V
Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section 8, and such
Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance
and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and
of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested,
recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as
required by law have been given.
   SECTION VI
No part of this Ordinance shall be interpreted to conflict with federal, state
or local laws, and all reasonable efforts should be made to harmonize same.
Should any section or part thereof of this Ordinance be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the Ordinance as a whole, or any portion of this Ordinance are
hereby declared to be severable.
   SECTION VII
The express or implied repeal or amendment by this Ordinance or any other
Ordinance or part of any other Ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or procedures begun prior to the
effective date of this Ordinance. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed
or amended Ordinance as if this Ordinance had not been adopted.
   SECTION VIII
This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   SECTION IX
Unless otherwise set forth herein, this Ordinance shall become effective upon
promulgation according to law.
Ayes:                                 
Nays:                                  
Abstentions:                         
Adopted and Ordained this 19th day of June, 2007.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FREMONT, INDIANA
   Loretta S. Smart /s/
   President
   Charles Steven Brown /s/
   Vice-President
ATTEST:
M. Kathleen Parsons /s/
Clerk
   WAIVER OF SECOND READING
On motion duly made and seconded, the second reading of the foregoing Ordinance
was unanimously waived and the Ordinance was deemed effective as of the date of
passage.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FREMONT, INDIANA
   Loretta S. Smart /s/
   President
   Charles Steven Brown /s/
   Vice-President
                                 
   Kay Clark, Member
   Joseph Thomas /s/
   Member
   John N. Ludy /s/
   Member
ATTEST
M. Kathleen Parsons /s/
Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Applicability
   
10.02   Title of code
   
10.03   Interpretation
   
10.04   Application to future ordinances
   
10.05   Construction of code
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.13   Limitation periods
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Town seal
   
10.19   Material, incorporation by reference
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter apply throughout the code.
§ 10.02 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Fremont Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.03 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.04 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws,
amendments thereto and newly enacted laws.
      (2)   Any previously existing law or amendment thereto reenacted by this
code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it had not been repealed by
this code.
      (3)   All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to
the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between 2 or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to 3 or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Steuben County.
      ET SEQ. Latin phrase; “and the following.”
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      I.C. State law found in the Indiana Code.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation of declaration in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the
words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes and part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by entirety, of the whole or a
part of building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof to the
extent permitted by law.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every kind of property except real property.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street or highway, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school
yard or open space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5) (1996 Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   (1)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code
containing a nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section
is severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
         (a)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with
and so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
         (b)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
      (2)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (C)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of a section are
severable as provided in division (B) of this section does not affect the
operation of division (B) with respect to that section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.13 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1996 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1996 Code, § ).”
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 TOWN SEAL.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the custodian of the town’s seal and
affix it to documents and instruments as required.
   (B)   The town seal of Fremont shall be the form and style as affixed to the
certification page of this code.
(1996 Code, § 1-10)
§ 10.19 MATERIAL, INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   Two copies of all material incorporated by reference into this code are on
file and shall be kept on file for public inspection in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
Statutory reference:
   Material incorporated by reference, see I.C. 36-1-5-4
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $7,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-16-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
   
31.   RESERVED
   
32.   MUNICIPAL DEPARTMENTS; OFFICIALS
   
33.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
   
34.   EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL POLICIES
   
35.   FINANCE; TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Five-member Town Council
   
30.02   Voting at large
   
30.03   President of the Council
   
30.04   Quorum and votes to pass
   
30.05   Powers of the Town Council
   
30.06   Regular and special meetings
   
30.07   Order of business
   
30.08   Parliamentary procedure
   
30.09   Recording and publishing ordinances
   
30.10   Compensation
   
30.11   Principal executive officer for purposes of declaring an emergency
Electronic Meetings Policy Resolution
   
30.20   Definitions
   
30.21   Scope
   
30.22   Policy
   
30.23   Implementing the policy
§ 30.01 FIVE-MEMBER TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council is the town legislative body.
   (B)   The Council consists of 5 members whose terms of office, except as may
otherwise be directed by ordinance of the town, are 4 years, beginning at 12:00
p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until successors are elected
and qualified.
(1996 Code, § 3-1)
§ 30.02 VOTING AT LARGE.
   (A)   The voting for all members of the Town Council shall be at large by
the voters of the entire town rather than restricted to the voters of the
district.
   (B)   The additional members of the Council shall be appointed or elected as
by law provided.
(1996 Code, § 3-2)
§ 30.03 PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council shall select at its first annual meeting 1 of its
members to be its President for a definite term which may not exceed his or her
term of office.
   (B)   The President is the Town Executive.
(1996 Code, § 3-4)
§ 30.04 QUORUM AND VOTES TO PASS.
   (A)   A majority of all elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
   (B)   Passage of ordinances, orders or resolutions shall be governed by
applicable state statutes.
(1996 Code, § 3-5)
§ 30.05 POWERS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council may:
      (1)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions
of the town;
      (2)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property, for the use of
the town;
      (3)   Adopt and use a common seal; and
      (4)   Exercise all powers that are needed for the effective operation of
local governmental affairs.
(1996 Code, § 3-6)
   (B)   (1)   The Town Council may enter into written franchise agreements for
companies to serve the town.
      (2)   These agreements shall be binding on the parties as to rental
amounts, safety requirement, inspections, indemnification, bond requirements
and other related areas.
      (3)   These agreements, in order to be approved must be passed by an
appropriate ordinance of the Town Council, and shall be kept on file and open
for public inspection during regular business hours in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1996 Code, § 4-36)
§ 30.06 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall hold its regular meetings on the third Tuesday
of each month at hours as the Town Council may direct and determine from time
to time. Regular meetings shall be held at the Town Hall at 205 North Tolford,
Fremont, Indiana.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Town Council shall be held when called by the
Town Executive or when called under the rules of the legislative body.
(1996 Code, § 3-7)
§ 30.07 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The following order of business shall be followed at all regular meetings of
the Town Council:
   (A)   Call to order roll call;
   (B)   Reading of minutes;
   (C)   Old business new business miscellaneous matters; and
   (D)   Adjournment.
(1996 Code, § 3-10)
§ 30.08 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Any matter not addressed by any rules of procedure which may be adopted by
the Town Council, shall be governed by Robert's Rules of Order.
(1996 Code, § 3-11)
§ 30.09 RECORDING AND PUBLISHING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances, within a reasonable time after their passage, shall be
recorded in a book kept for that purpose by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Any adopted ordinance, order or resolution which must be promulgated
or published before it takes effect shall be done pursuant to applicable state
statute.
(1996 Code, § 3-12)
§ 30.10 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of its own
members.
   (B)   The compensation of an elected town officer may not be changed in the
year below the amount fixed for the year 1980.
(1996 Code, § 3-13)
§ 30.11 PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER FOR PURPOSES OF DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER of the town as referred to in I.C. 10-14-
3-29(a) for purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred
to hereinafter, means the regularly designated President of the of the Town
Council, except if he or she is unavailable, or incapacitated, then the
regularly designated Vice-President of the Town Council shall serve as the
Principal Executive Officer. If both the President and the Vice-President are
unavailable or incapacitated, the office of Principal Executive Officer may be
filled by a remaining Town Council member by the majority vote among the
remaining Town Council members. If the President, Vice-President, and Town
Council member receiving the first majority vote are unavailable or
incapacitated, the office, of Principal Executive Officer may be filled by a
remaining Town Council member by the majority vote among the two remaining Town
Council members and the Town Clerk-Treasurer. If the Presidents, the Vice-
President, the Town Council member receiving the first majority vote, and the
Town Council member receiving the second majority vote are unavailable or
incapacitated, the remaining Town Council member shall be considered the
Principal Executive Officer. In the absence or incapacity of all Town Council
members, the office of Principal Executive Officer shall devolve first upon the
Town Clerk-Treasurer, and, second, upon the Town Marshall.
   (B)   The Principal Executive Officer of the town selected by the above
procedure, if not a member of the Town Council, shall exercise all powers and
fulfill all duties of the Principal Executive Officer under I.C. 10-14-3 et
seq. until such time as a Town Council member shall no longer be unavailable or
incapacitated, at which time the Town Council member holding the highest office
and which is not unavailable or incapacitated, shall assume all the powers and
duties as the Principal Executive Officer. The Principal Executive Officer of
the town selected by the above procedure, if a member of the Town Council,
shall exercise all powers and fulfill all duties of the Principal Executive
Officer under. I.C. 10-14-3-29 et seq. until such time as the regularly
designated President of the Town Council shall no longer be unavailable or
incapacitated, at which time the regularly designated President of the Town
Council shall resume all the powers and duties as the Principal Executive
Officer.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 7-5-2012)
ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY  RESOLUTION
§ 30.20 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the following terms are used in this subchapter, they shall
have such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION. Any meeting of the Town Council or its
committees while away from the physical meeting site, using any electronic
means allowed by § 3.5 of the Open Door Law.
      MEMBER. A member of the Town Council.
      OPEN DOOR LAW. Refers to I.C. 5-14-1.5.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Fremont, Indiana.
   (B)   External. The definitions of terms defined in I.C. 5-14-1.5-2 apply to
this subchapter except to the extent they would conflict with a term otherwise
defined in this section.
(Res. 2022-03, passed 9-20-2022)
§ 30.21 SCOPE.
   (A)   Effect. This section applies to the Town Council and any committee
appointed directly by the Town Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   Executive session. Except as stated, this section applies to any
meeting of the Town Council in executive session.
   (C)   Member rights. This section does not create any right to electronic
participation on behalf of a member though the Town Council shall take
reasonable steps to facilitate such electronic participation.
   (D)   Public rights. This section does not create any right to electronic
participation on behalf of the public.
   (E)   Disaster emergencies. This section does not apply to any meeting to
which § 3.7 of the Open Door Law applies.
   (F)   Conflicts. To the extent any bylaw, rule, or policy of the Town
Council may be deemed or construed to conflict with this section, this section
shall be deemed to amend such bylaw, rule, or policy to allow electronic
participation in accord with the Open Door Law.
   (G)   Judicial review. This section is intended only to improve the internal
management of the town. Notwithstanding anything in this section to the
contrary, nothing in this section shall be construed to create any new legal
duty, right, or benefit, whether substantive or procedural, enforceable against
the town; nor to waive or diminish any protection that may be applicable to the
town or any of its elected or appointed officials, employees, agents, or
representatives under any applicable law providing governmental immunity, or
any other rights, protections, immunities, defenses, or limitations on
liability that the town or such related parties are provided by law.
(Res. 2022-03, passed 9-20-2022)
§ 30.22 POLICY.
   (A)   Benefits of electronic participation. Because from time to time
members may not be available to physically attend and participate in meetings
of the Town Council; because it is necessary for the Town Council to conduct
business regularly and as efficiently as possible; because technology has
advanced to facilitate, as a practical matter, electronic participation in Town
Council meetings; the Town Council hereby recognizes the benefits of electronic
participation as a way to conduct its business and encourages electronic
participation whenever a member cannot otherwise be present.
   (B)   Benefits of physical participation. Notwithstanding division (A), the
Town Council encourages members to participate physically in meetings whenever
possible to maximize interaction and public observation.
   (C)   Postponement decisions. The President shall consider whether the
benefits of electronic participation are outweighed by otherwise rescheduling
or postponing to another date a meeting or an agenda item thereof so as to
allow for full physical participation of the Town Council for later
consideration of such matters.
   (D)   Adoption. It is hereby the adopted policy of the Town Council to
permit electronic participation to the fullest extent allowed by the Open Door
Law, and as described further herein, for use as necessary.
   (E)   Amendment. This section, and the policy created thereby, may be
amended at any time.
(Res. 2022-03, passed 9-20-2022)
§ 30.23 IMPLEMENTING THE POLICY.
   (A)   Notice. Because of technology issues and issues related to reaching a
legal quorum, a member who desires electronic participation for a particular
meeting shall so advise the Clerk-Treasurer or IT Director as early as
practicable. The town IT Director may not be able to accommodate requests made
less than 48 hours in advance of a meeting.
   (B)   Status attestation. A member who desires electronic participation for
a particular meeting shall attest to the Clerk-Treasurer whether or not the
electronic participation is for military service, illness or other medical
condition, death of a relative, or an emergency involving actual or threatened
injury to persons or property. The Clerk-Treasurer may require a form for such
attestation.
   (C)   Electronic signatures. A member who takes final action using
electronic participation should make arrangements to sign a record
memorializing the final action within seven days if there is a reasonable
expectation for the member to do so. The record may be signed electronically in
conformity with the town's electronic signature policy to the extent such
policy permits.
   (D)   Technological failures. If, during a meeting, a member attending via
electronic participation should experience a technological failure that delays
or prevents further electronic participation at the meeting, the presiding
officer shall take reasonable steps to delay official action, especially final
action, for a brief period.
   (E)   Minutes. The person responsible for creating the minutes or memoranda
of the meeting shall indicate therein whether any person who was otherwise
considered present at the meeting due to electronic participation was
unavailable during any particular final action.
   (F)   Compliance. The President shall ensure that all meetings using
electronic participation comply with the Open Door Law.
(Res. 2022-03, passed 9-20-2022)
CHAPTER 31: RESERVED
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL DEPARTMENTS; OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Term of office
   
32.02   Powers and duties
   
32.03   Compensation
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
Municipal Departments
   
32.15   Five departments organized
   
32.16   Appointment; compensation; tenure of Town Marshal
   
32.17   Powers and duties of Town Marshal
   
32.18   Deputy Marshals
   
32.19   Candidacy program for future police officers
   
32.20   Water Superintendent and Sewer Superintendent
   
32.21   Street Superintendent
   
32.22   Town Council’s authority
   
32.23   President’s authority to suspend employees
Town Manager
   
32.35   Office
   
32.36   Bond and duties
   
32.37   Specific duties
   
32.38   Duties not given to the Town Manager
Fire Department
   
32.50   Established
   
32.51   Fire Chief
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an elected position whose term of office is for
4 years, beginning at noon on January 1 after his or her election and
continuing until a successor is elected and qualified.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters of the whole
town.
(1996 Code, § 2-1)
§ 32.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments as required by law.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council and whenever the
Town Council has an even number of members, the Clerk-Treasurer is an ex-
officio member for the purpose of casting the deciding vote to break the tie.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may perform all duties prescribed by law, which
include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town monies, and pay them out upon order
of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts of all town monies;
      (3)   File monthly reports with the Town Council showing all receipts and
disbursements of the Town Treasury for the preceding month;
      (4)   Maintain records which are open for inspection by the Town Council;
      (5)   Collect fines resulting from ordinance violations;
      (6)   Issue all licenses;
      (7)   Attend all Town Council meetings and maintain a recording of its
proceedings; and
      (8)   Division (C)(1) above notwithstanding, to pay out prior to regular
Town Council meeting and in advance of allowance of the claim by the town
Council, town funds in order to meet obligations of the town which fall due
prior to regular Town Council meetings, with respect to the following types of
claims which disbursements are hereby pre-approved for lawful town purposes:
         (a)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
            1.   The U.S. government; or
            2.   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
         (b)   License fees or permit fees;
         (c)   Insurance premiums;
         (d)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
         (e)   Federal grant programs if:
            1.   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
            2.    The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
advanced amount.
         (f)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
         (g)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
         (h)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
         (i)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
         (j)   Payroll;
         (k)   State, federal or county taxes;
         (l)   Employee health insurance co-payment;
         (m)   Travel related expenses which are authorized pursuant to this
code;
         (n)   Payment to employees for flexible spending account;
         (o)   Payment to local vendors for gas used by employees for town
vehicles;
         (p)   Payment to employees for reimbursable work expenses: shoes, and
the like;
         (q)   Credit card payments;
         (r)   Anything that would incur a late fee or constitute a savings if
paid by a certain due date;
         (s)   training and class registrations if due before a council
meeting; and
         (t)   Items disbursed from the clearing account;
         provided that each disbursement made under the authority of this
division is supported by a fully itemized claim and the Town Council reviews
and allows the claim at the next regular or special meeting following the
payment of said claim.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and Town Fiscal Officer
pursuant to I.C. 36-5-6-2.
(1996 Code, §§ 2-1-2-2, 2-2) (Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord.
2016-03, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 32.03 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation for the services of the person holding the office of Clerk-
Treasurer shall be fixed by the Town Council.
(1996 Code, § 2-3)
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may appoint the number of deputies and employees
authorized by the Town Council.
   (B)   Deputies and employees so hired serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1996 Code, § 2-4)
MUNICIPAL DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.15 FIVE DEPARTMENTS ORGANIZED.
   (A)   The municipal employees are organized in 5 departments:
      (1)   The Fremont Police Department;
      (2)   The Volunteer Fire Department;
      (3)   The Water Department;
      (4)   The Sewer Department; and
      (5)   The Street Department.
   (B)   The same are to be under the supervision of the Town Marshal, Fire
Chief, Water Superintendent, Sewer Superintendent and Street Superintendent,
respectively.
(Am. Ord. 2004-13, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 32.16 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION; TENURE OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
   (B)   The Fremont Police Department shall be under the supervision of the
Town Marshal.
   (C)   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council and is
subject to the minimum basic training requirements.
(1996 Code, § 2-7)
§ 32.17 POWERS AND DUTIES OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   The Town Marshal is the Chief Police Officer and has the powers of other law
enforcement officers as set forth in I.C. 36-5-7-4 as it may be amended from
time to time.
(1996 Code, § 2-8)
§ 32.18 DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   The Town Council may authorize the appointment of deputy marshals pursuant
to I.C. 36-5-7-6, as it may be amended from time to time.
(1996 Code, § 2-9)
§ 32.19 CANDIDACY PROGRAM FOR FUTURE POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Town of Fremont Police Department and the Town Council of the Town
of Fremont, Indiana, hereby adopts, accepts and approves the Town of Fremont
Police Department BADGE Program, which guide is set out below and incorporated
herein
   (B)   It shall establish guidelines of candidature for the Town of Fremont
Police Department, as they exist and may hereafter be revised and amended.
      (1)   Background and evaluation for entry into program:
         (a)   Completed written application from candidate;
         (b)   Criminal background check of candidate;
         (c)   Executed liability waiver from candidate;
         (d)   Personal interview with Town Council and Police Department; and
         (e)   Vote for enrollment into program by Town Council.
      (2)   A 40-hour pre-basic and handgun training:
         (a)   Certificate of completion of 40-hour pre-basic training
administered by Town of Fremont Police Department; and
         (b)   Completion of program in timely fashion as pre-determined by the
trainer(s).
      (3)   Department reserve status:
         (a)   Written recommendation by Pre-Basic Training Instructor;
         (b)   Recommendation made to Town Council by Town Marshal;
         (c)   Vote for elevation to Second Class Officer status by Town
Council;
         (d)   Begin training with Fremont Police Department Officer; and
         (e)   Work with all police officers for a minimum of 6 months or until
recommendation by Police Chief to Town Council.
      (4)   Gradual incorporation into Police Department:
         (a)   Following favorable recommendation by Police Chief and approval
of Town Council, candidate elevated to first class officer status;
         (b)   Candidate may work shifts alone;
         (c)   Candidate must continue necessary education requirements,
comparable to or the same as other officers of first class officer status, as
determined by Police Chief;
         (d)   As a full-time position may become available on the Town of
Fremont Police Department, candidate will be placed on list of officers
eligible for full-time status; and
         (e)   Candidate must complete semi-annual evaluation.
      (5)   Employment with Police Department:
         (a)   Candidate must fill out necessary paperwork and take initial
action to apply for opening; and
         (b)   If selected for position, candidate must attend a 13-week
training program administered by the Indiana Law Enforcement Academy.
(Ord. 2006-08, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 32.20 WATER SUPERINTENDENT AND SEWER SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Water Superintendent shall be duly qualified and licensed to
operate a municipal water plant.
      (2)   The Sewer Superintendent shall be duly qualified and licensed to
operate a municipal waste treatment facility.
   (B)   The Water Superintendent and the Sewer Superintendent shall have
primary responsibility for the maintenance, operation and monitoring of their
respective facilities, including conducting all required testing and the
reporting of same to the requisite regulatory entities and the Clerk-Treasurer,
along with a report of all users subject to surcharges and regular testing of
high volume sewer users.
   (C)   The salaries of the Water Superintendent and the Sewer Superintendent
shall be allocated to their respective departments by the Town Council.
(Am. Ord. 2004-13, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 32.21 STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Street Superintendent shall have primary responsibility and
supervision of all employees including water and sewer employees or
superintendents when working on any municipal assignment other than water,
sewer or police matters.
   (B)   He or she is to be responsible for assigning work, supervising the
work and evaluating the work of all employees under his or her supervision.
(1996 Code, § 2-14)
§ 32.22 TOWN COUNCIL’S AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Council shall have authority over all departments and department
heads, including the Town Manager, the Town Marshal, Fire Chief, Water
Superintendent, Sewer Superintendent and Street Superintendent.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall oversee all departments and department heads,
including the Town Marshal, Fire Chief, Water Superintendent, Sewer
Superintendent and Street Superintendent.
   (C)   The Council designates the Town Manager, and may designate 1 of the
Council members in the Town Manager’s absence, as the primary contact person
from whom the Town Marshal, Fire Chief and Superintendents shall obtain
approval of required action on a day-to-day basis.
   (D)   The Town Manager and any member of the Council may consult with the
department heads regarding tasks pertaining to the town.
(Am. Ord. 2004-13, passed 5-10-2004; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 32.23 PRESIDENT'S AUTHORITY TO SUSPEND EMPLOYEES.
   The President of the Town Council is to have authority to temporarily
suspend any employee if it is deemed the best interest of the town with or
without pay until a time as a meeting of the Town Council can be convened with
regard thereto and cause to be prepared and served upon the employee notice of
any changes where required in anticipation of a hearing if required.
(1996 Code, § 2-16)
TOWN MANAGER
§ 32.35 OFFICE.
   (A)   The Office of Town Manager is established, ratified and confirmed.
   (B)   The Town Manager, after appointment and assuming his or her office, is
employed to serve at the pleasure of the Town Council.
(1996 Code, § 2-23) (Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 32.36 BOND AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Manager, upon the holder thereof executing a bond in
accordance with I.C. 36-5-5-5 and I.C. 5-4-1, shall assume the duties set forth
in I.C. 36-5-5-8 or any subsequent provision establishing forth the duties of a
Town Manager.
(1996 Code, § 2-24)
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities conferred upon the Town Manager in his
or her function as office shall nevertheless be subject to the written orders,
resolutions and ordinances of the Town Council issued from time to time
concerning the Town Manager’s authority, duties and responsibilities.
(1996 Code, § 2-25) (Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 32.37 SPECIFIC DUTIES.
   The Town Manager, in addition to those general provisions sets forth in the
above referenced statute (I.C. 36-5-5-8) pertaining to Town Managers, shall
have immediate authority and responsibility with regard to the following:
   (A)   All duties and responsibilities with respect to the Office of Zoning
Inspector, Zoning Administrator and Building Inspector or Commissioner as set
forth in any applicable statute or ordinance;
   (B)   Administration of any code of ethics or personnel policies of the town
with respect to any non-elected employees or officials of the town, the
authority to include conducting or causing to be conducted any and all internal
affairs or periodic departmental investigations, and filing, if appropriate,
reports, information or charges with the Town Council;
   (C)   Developing, in conjunction with the Town Council, employee and
personnel standards, policies and minimum competency levels;
   (D)   Developing in conjunction with all department heads, including the
Town Marshal and the Fire Chief, departmental policies;
   (E)   Suspending or transferring of town employees pending official action
by the Town Council;
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in the Indiana Code, acting as review
officer to hear and review all employee appeals brought from decisions or
grievances against department heads, or by department heads, or with regard to
any violation of Town Council policies, and shall be authorized to issue
reprimands and citations to employees violating town policies;
   (G)   Acting as liaison officer to hear and investigate any proposed changes
or complaints of citizens, employees or officers of the town and to present
them to the Town Council for review;
   (H)   Conduct monthly meetings of department heads (including fire and
police) and recommend to the Town Council rules and regulations for individual
departments;
   (I)   Administer and coordinate the town’s economic development plans and
projects;
   (J)   Make and approve town purchases according to authority delegated for
the purpose by ordinance of the Town Council;
   (K)   Coordinating with the Town Attorney and Clerk-Treasurer the updating
and compilation of the Town Code; and
   (L)   Other responsibilities as the Town Council, or where appropriate, the
President of the Town Council, shall lawfully delegate and assign in writing to
the Town Manager.
(Am. Ord. 2004-13, passed 5-10-2004; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 32.38 DUTIES NOT GIVEN TO THE TOWN MANAGER.
   Any provision of I.C. 36-5-5-8 or these provisions notwithstanding, the Town
Manager shall not have or be construed as having any authority to:
   (A)   Enter into or bind the town to any contract, except for purchases of
materials or services of less than $500;
   (B)   Enter into or bind the town to any grant agreement;
   (C)   Negotiate for the extension of any utility line beyond the corporate
limits of the town;
   (D)   Present to the Town Council any ordinance, other than routine re-
zoning ordinances or appropriation ordinances, which has not been approved in
writing or drafted by the Town Attorney; and
   (E)   Arrange for or recommend the award of any contract for the purchase of
any equipment, service or construction without first receiving bids or
soliciting quotes from more than 1 supplier.
(Am. Ord. 2004-13, passed 5-10-2004; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-5-2009)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.50 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the Town of Fremont, Indiana, a
municipal Fire Department for the purpose of protecting the public from loss or
injury by fire or other casualty.
   (B)   The Department shall be known as the Fremont Fire Department.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 12-8-2003)
§ 32.51 FIRE CHIEF.
    (A)   The Fremont Town Council shall appoint a Fire Chief and shall fix his
or her compensation.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council and is
subject to the minimum basic training requirements found at I.C. 36-8-10.5-6.
   (C)   The Fremont Fire Department shall be administered and supervised by
the Fire Chief, who shall act with the advice and consent of the Fremont Town
Council.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 12-8-2003)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Economic Development Commission
   
33.01   Commission; establishment; purpose and powers
   
33.02   Establishment of allocation basis
   
33.03   Four categories of projects
   
33.04   Point system
   
33.05   Category rankings
   
33.06   Substantial construction criteria
   
33.07   Specific allocations
   
33.08   Category classifications
Housing Authority
   
33.20   Findings of the Town Council
   
33.21   Establishment
Department of Redevelopment
   
33.35   Established
   
33.36   Operation
   
33.37   Five Commissioners
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 33.01 COMMISSION; ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE AND POWERS.
   (A)   There is created the Town of Fremont Economic Development Commission
to carry out the provisions of this subchapter in accordance with I.C. 36-7-12-
1 et seq.
(1996 Code, § 2-31)
   (B)   (1)   The Town of Fremont, Indiana, is desirous of increasing the
employment opportunities and diversification of industry to improve the
prosperity, economic stability and general welfare of the community.
      (2)   A Commission is needed to investigate, study and survey job
opportunities, industrial diversification, economic stability development and
welfare of the Town of Fremont, and carry out the duties and powers as set
forth in the Municipal Economic Development Act, I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq.
      (3)   Any indebtedness would be in the form of revenue bonds which would
be the obligation solely and only from the revenue derived from industrial
facilities which would not affect the borrowing powers of the Town of Fremont.
(1996 Code, § 2-32)
   (C)   The members of the Economic Development Commission shall be appointed
and shall perform the duties and exercise the powers all as set forth in the
Municipal Economic Development Act., I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq.
(1996 Code, § 2-33)
§ 33.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF ALLOCATION BASIS.
   Insofar as any state or federal statute, rule or regulation does not mandate
the system of allocating tax exempt status to Economic Development Facility
projects which have been the subject of inducement resolutions after the date
of this section and to the extent that any future state or federal statute,
rule or regulation shall limit the overall amount of Economic Development
Facility financing which the town may issue and to the further extent to which
any project shall consume a portion of that allocation and the overall amount
of projects induced during a period exceeds allocations, then the following
criteria shall be applied in determining the allocation thereof.
(1996 Code, § 2-37)
§ 33.03 FOUR CATEGORIES OF PROJECTS.
   (A)   The projects for the duration of any 1 allocation period shall be
divided into 4 categories as follows:
      (1)   This category shall have first allocation priority;
      (2)   This category shall be allocated funds after all projects in
allocation division (1) above have been funded;
      (3)   This category shall be allocated funds after all projects in
allocation division (2) above have been funded; and
      (4)   This category shall be allocated funds after all other projects
have been funded.
   (B)   The allocation determinations shall be good only for the allocation
period in which the project was induced, after a period has expired the project
if it has not been closed will compete again for allocation in the next
allocation period.
   (C)   The category rank is to be assigned to each project at the time of
inducement and each applicant must agree in writing to abide by the terms of
this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 2-38)
§ 33.04 POINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Classification. The classification of projects into the 4 categories
is to be determined by reference to a point system derived as follows as
indicated hereafter. For the purpose of determining the amount of employment to
be generated for purpose of determining the eligibility for the award of
points, the projected level of employment at the end of the third year of
operations will be used.
   (B)   Criteria.
      (1)   Facility is to be the main home office of the company or is the
expansion of an applicant which already has its home office in the town (5
points).
      (2)   Amount to be induced has a ratio to number of jobs of not more than
$5,000 per job created or retained (5 points) of not more than $10,000 per job
created or retained (3 points).
      (3)   The overall new investment of applicant in plant, facility and
equipment which will not be subject to tax abatement is greater than 50% of the
amount of financing to be induced (4 points).
      (4)   The project is to be or was instrumental to the town in obtaining
state or federal grant funds which will assist in attracting additional
industrial projects to the town or will assist in acquiring or construction
public improvements of benefit to the town beyond the location of the plant in
the town (4 points).
      (5)   The project will employ not less than 20 nor more than 250
employees (2 points).
      (6)   The project will be under construction within 90 days after
inducement and the bond issue is projected to close within 120 days and the
applicant has a commitment to purchase the bonds on agreed tams (4 points).
      (7)   The applicant proposes to engage in a business which will promote
diversification in the town (the town reserves the right to change whether any
certain type of business promotes diversification during the course of any
allocation period and may but is not obligated to determine during the course
of any allocation period that any certain type of business will no longer be
awarded points under this criteria during that allocation period provided,
however, any change shall not affect any point award already made during that
allocation period) (5 points).
      (8)   The applicant has agreed to make substantial contributions toward
public improvements needed by the town for the benefit of others in addition to
the applicant (5 points).
      (9)   The applicant has agreed to landscape the facility site in a manner
which will enhance the general surrounding area which agreement is referenced
by the application letter (5 points).
      (10)   The proposed facility is to be located within the corporate
boundaries of the town or the company has requested annexation and annexation
is legally and economically feasible (5 points).
(1996 Code, § 2-39)
§ 33.05 CATEGORY RANKINGS.
   Category rankings to be as follows:
   (A)   Class A = 35 pts. or better;
   (B)   Class B = 25 pts. or better;
   (C)   Class C = 15 pts. or better; and
   (D)   Class D = 14 pts. or better.
(1996 Code, § 2-40)
§ 33.06 SUBSTANTIAL CONSTRUCTION CRITERIA.
   Any induced project which is not substantially constructed and the bond
issue is not closed within 9 months of the date of inducement is to be
penalized by subtraction of 5 points from the points assigned at inducement and
will have its category reduced if appropriate.
(1996 Code, § 2-41)
§ 33.07 SPECIFIC ALLOCATIONS.
   Allocation amongst projects within the same category are to be made on a
first to close basis; if more than 1 bond issue closes on the same date within
the same category, then the allocation shall be made upon a first to have been
induced basis.
(1996 Code, § 2-42)
§ 33.08 CATEGORY CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding any project which
was induced prior to this subchapter, has closed as to a portion of the full
amount of the inducement and has commenced construction, shall be deemed a
Class A category project and shall be allocated a portion of the allocation
before any other project.
(1996 Code, § 2-43)
HOUSING AUTHORITY
§ 33.20 FINDINGS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   Pursuant to the Housing Authorities Acts, as amended, the Town Council of
the Town of Fremont, Indiana, upon due notice having held a public hearing
whereat an opportunity to be heard was granted to all residents and taxpayers
of the town to all other interested persons, having considered the testimony
and evidence presented at a public hearing and their own personal knowledge of
dwelling accommodations and need for a housing authority, Fremont, Indiana,
finds, determines and declares that:
   (A)   Insanitary and unsafe inhabited dwelling accommodations exist in the
Town of Fremont, Indiana;
   (B)   There is a shortage of safe and sanitary dwelling accommodations in
the Town of Fremont, Indiana, available to persons of low income at rentals
they can afford; and
   (C)   There is need for a housing authority to function in the Town of
Fremont, Indiana.
(1996 Code, § 2-47)
§ 33.21 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The name of the housing authority shall be Housing Authority of the Town of
Fremont and it is established.
(1996 Code, § 2-48)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT
§ 33.35 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the Town of Fremont, Indiana, a
Department of Redevelopment for the purpose of planning, replanning,
development and redevelopment of blighted and/or economic development areas
with the town.
   (B)   The Department shall be known as the Fremont Department of
Redevelopment and shall be controlled by a Board of 5 members to be known as
the Fremont Redevelopment Commission.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 12-8-2003)
§ 33.36 OPERATION.
   The Fremont Redevelopment Commission shall operate with all the powers,
obligations and privileges authorized under the Act as the same is presently in
force and effect, or as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 12-8-2003)
§ 33.37 FIVE COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The 5 Commissioners of the Fremont Redevelopment Commission shall be
appointed as follows:
      (1)   Three shall be appointed by the town executive; and
      (2)   Two shall be appointed by the town legislative body.
   (B)   Each member shall take and subscribe an oath of office and execute a
bond, all as required by the Act.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 12-8-2003)
CHAPTER 34: EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Town appointments
   
34.02   Compensation and salary
   
34.03   Official surety bonds
   
34.04   Personnel policies adopted by reference
   
34.05   Reimbursement of travel and business expense
   
34.06   Americans with Disabilities Act
   
34.07   Access to public records
   
34.08   Special comp time for full time police and fire employees
   
34.09   Nepotism policy and conflict of interest contracting policy
   
34.10   Telework policy
§ 34.01 TOWN APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may employ persons to effectively carry out the needs
and services of the town.
   (B)   Positions which the Town Council may appoint include but shall not be
limited to the following:
      (1)   Town Manager;
      (2)   Town Attorney;
      (3)   Town Engineer;
      (4)   Town Marshal;
      (5)   Fire Chief; and
      (6)   Other officers and employees deemed necessary.
   (C)   Duties shall be set forth for each position by the Town Council and
applicable state law.
(1996 Code, § 2-57)
§ 34.02 COMPENSATION AND SALARY.
   The Town Council shall fix the compensation or salary of all town employees
and officers by appropriate ordinance.
(1996 Code, § 2-58)
§ 34.03 OFFICIAL SURETY BONDS.
   (A)   Individual official surety bonds required by I.C. 5-4-1-1 et seq., as
it may be amended from time to time, shall be provided by the town.
   (B)   A blanket bond may be obtained to cover the faithful performance of
all other employees, commission members and persons acting on behalf of the
town, so required to be covered.
(1996 Code, § 2-59)
§ 34.04 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The basic policies which govern the employees of the Town of Fremont,
Steuben County, Indiana, are set forth in Personnel Policies adopted by the
Town Council.
   (B)   These policies are adopted herein by reference with copies being
maintained in the Office of the Town Manager and in the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
(1996 Code, § 2-60) (Am. Ord. 2007-14, passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-03,
passed 4-15-2008; Am. Res. 2008-07, passed 10-20-2008; Am. Res. 2008-08, passed
11-1-2008; Am. Res. 2009-05, passed 12-15-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-5-
2010; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-11, passed 9-18-2012;
Am. Ord. 2015-04, passed 12-22-2015; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 12-15-2015; Am.
Ord. 2015-10, passed 12-22-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-10, passed 11-15-2016; Am. Ord.
2021-10, passed 12-30-2021)
§ 34.05 REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL AND BUSINESS EXPENSE.
   (A)   Travel-related expenses.
      (1)   Authorization required. The employee or town official must complete
a travel authorization form with all anticipated expenses set forth on that
form and submit it with a copy of the registration for or other written
material regarding the travel to the Town Council prior to the anticipated
travel date.
      (2)   Expenses which shall be reimbursed or made on the P-card:
         (a)   Air, rail, or bus tickets at the lowest possible fare available;
         (b)   Rental car, bus, taxi, and airport limousine expenses, if such
ground transportation is reasonable and necessary for the purpose of the trip;
         (c)   Normal travel gratuities, up to but not exceeding 18% of the
total cost of the product and/or service;
         (d)    Use of privately owned vehicles at the current federally
permissible mileage rate;
         (e)   Necessary parking and storage fees;
         (f)   Lodging at actual cost at single room rate (lowest cost);
         (g)   Meal expenses at actual cost per diem of $75; and
         (h)   All other expenses necessarily incurred directly related to
purpose of travel, such as taxi fare, tolls, parking, registration, business
related phone calls and the like, actual cost; in the event of an overnight
stay while on business, the cost of the internet may be included with the room,
if otherwise not included with room cost.
      (3)   Expenses which shall not be reimbursed:
         (a)   Personal entertainment;
         (b)   Fines for parking, speeding, etc.;
         (c)   Alcoholic beverage charges;
         (d)   Travel related to personal entertainment;
         (e)   Groceries;
         (f)   Items disallowed as stated under previous heading; and
         (g)   If employee or official elects to stay longer than was
previously approved, and such extension is not business related, the employee
or official will be required to pay all additional expenses arising from
extended stay.
   (B)   Reimbursement procedures or placed on the P-card.
      (1)   Travel authorization. A travel request must be approved by the Town
Council, or, if such measures are not practical due to time limitations, by the
Town Manager or Clerk-Treasurer prior to the date of travel.
      (2)   Required documentation. Upon return, the employee must complete an
expense report form for the travel related expenses and submit the form
immediately to the Clerk-Treasurer's Office, together with the following items:
         (a)   A completed and signed claim form identifying the person to
receive payment;
         (b)   A completed expense report form;
         (c)   Original credit card receipts and cash receipts certifying all
purchases or expenses and an itemized accounting of same. Original credit card
receipts must be accompanied by an original itemized receipt for the same
purchase. The town reserves the right to withhold reimbursements for expenses
for which the employee or official does not have appropriate receipts or
documentation;
         (d)   An agenda from the meeting attended; and
         (e)   A map quest printout verifying the miles traveled if requesting
mileage reimbursement.
      (3)   Payment of authorized expenses by town. The town shall reimburse
all authorized expenses within three business days following the submission of
acceptable receipts and other required documentation of allowable expenses.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 5-8-2006; Am. Ord. 2007-20, passed 12-28-2007; Am. Ord.
2019-03, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 34.06 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Fremont, Indiana, does hereby appoint
the Town Clerk-Treasurer as the Town of Fremont ADA Coordinator. The
Coordinator shall coordinate compliance with the non-discrimination
requirements contained in § 35.107 of the Department of Justice regulations.
   (B)   The Town Council of the Town of Fremont, Indiana, hereby determines
that to inform the public about the availability of information regarding the
provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the rights provided after
that and the town’s Americans With Disabilities Act policies, the following
statement.
The Town of Fremont does not discriminate because of disability in the
admission to, or treatment or employment in, its programs or activities. The
Town Clerk-Treasurer has been designated to coordinate compliance with
nondiscrimination requirements contained in § 35.107 of the Department of
Justice regulations. Information concerning the provisions of the Americans
With Disabilities Act and the rights provided after that are available from the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. Suggestions on how the town can better meet the needs of
these persons with disabilities may be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer, Town
of Fremont, P.O. Box 602, Fremont, Indiana 46737 or by telephone at 260-495-
2504.
   (C)   The above statement shall be placed upon all town agenda.
   (D)   (1)   The town A.D.A. grievance procedure under the Americans with
Disabilities Act, a copy of which is hereby adopted by reference into this code
of ordinances as if set forth fully herein, is adopted as the grievance
procedure for addressing complaints alleging discrimination on the basis of
disability in the provision of services, activities, programs, or benefits by
the town. The grievance procedure shall be made available in alternative
formats when necessary and shall be posted in town facilities as deemed
appropriate.
      (2)   The Town Council hereby adopts the 2010 Americans with Disabilities
Act (A.D.A.) Standards for Accessible Design, and any subsequent required
standards for accessible design. In addition, the Town Council hereby adopts
the 2005 Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way, and
any subsequent required guidelines for pedestrian facilities in a right-of-way.
      (3)   In compliance with federal and state laws as set forth above, the
Town Council resolves to post the required information regarding the A.D.A.
coordinator, notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, and town
grievance procedure under the Americans with Disabilities Act on it website and
at such other locations as may be determined from time to time.
(Ord. 2004-27, passed 11-16-2004; Am. Res. 2012-03, passed 9-18-2012)
§ 34.07 ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   I.C. 5-14-3 et seq., as may be amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted and incorporated into this chapter by reference.
   (B)   Any person may inspect and copy public records of the Town of Fremont
during regular business hours, unless the records are otherwise excepted from
disclosure under I.C. 5-14-3.
   (C)   All requests for inspection or copying must identify with reasonable
particularity the record being requested and be in writing on or in a form
provided by the town, unless a requirement is waived by the official or
employee receiving the request.
   (D)   The requesting party shall be required to pay $.10 per page or the
actual cost of copying, certification or transmission, whichever is greater,
for all requested public documents.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 8-30-2004)
§ 34.08 SPECIAL COMP TIME FOR FULL TIME POLICE AND FIRE EMPLOYEES.
   Special comp time will be earned when police or fire employees are required
to attend court proceedings on a scheduled day off. Special comp time will be
limited to Fremont community events such as Fremont Festivals, Fremont Parades,
and Fremont Public Safety emergency situations if scheduled by the Police or
Fire Chief and approved by the Town Council President. Special comp time will
only be allowed when the employee is called to work on a scheduled day off. The
Clerk-Treasurer will keep all records of any special comp time.
(Ord. 2006-17, passed 8-15-2006)
§ 34.09 NEPOTISM POLICY AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST CONTRACTING POLICY.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the terms and conditions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 et
seq., as amended, setting forth the requirements for the employment of
relatives by the town in a direct line of supervision, as said terms are
defined in I.C. 36-1-20.2 et seq., as amended, and any other applicable
requirements for the town as set forth in I.C. 36-1-20.2 et seq., as amended,
which shall be known as the town nepotism policy. This nepotism policy shall be
effective as of July 1, 2012, and shall be in addition to and supplement any
current nepotism policy in force for the town that does not conflict with I.C.
36-1-20.2 et seq., as amended. Of particular note, the prohibited employment of
relatives by the town in a direct line of supervision, as set forth in I.C. 36-
1-20.2-10, shall not apply to those employees of the town that would otherwise
violate that provision as of July 1, 2012, provided none of said employees have
a break in employment with the town, as that term is defined in the Indiana
Code.
   (B)   The town hereby adopts the terms and conditions of I.C. 36-1-21 et
seq., as amended, setting forth the requirements for the town to enter into or
renew a contract with an individual who is a relative of an elected official of
the town or a business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a relative
of an elected official, as said terms are defined in I.C. 36-1-21 et seq., as
amended, and any other applicable requirements for the town as set forth in the
I.C. 36-1-21 et seq., as amended. This conflict of interest policy shall be
effective as of July 1, 2012, and shall be in addition to and supplement any
current conflict of interest policy in force for the town that does not
conflict with the I.C. 36-1-21 et seq., as amended.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and instructed to disburse the
policies herein to all town employees and officials.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 34.10 TELEWORK POLICY.
   The town finds it necessary to provide for telework or sometimes referred to
as work from home or remote work in order to maintain a healthy and safe
working environment. From time to time, an employee may also be unable to
report to work for reasons beyond the employee's control. An employee who would
benefit from telework must first discuss this need with his/her department
head. Approval and duration of telework is the responsibility of the Town
Council President, in coordination with the department head and Clerk-
Treasurer. Unless directed to work from home from their direct supervisor, Town
Council President and Clerk-Treasurer, an employee requesting permission to
telework will be required to submit documentation evidencing the need to
telework and subject to the required paperwork and documentation. There is no
promise or guarantee that a request to telework will be granted. Requests are
reviewed on a case by case basis and subject to local ordinance, state statute
and federal law. It is within the town's discretion to direct employees who can
perform telework.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE; TAXATION
Section
General Funds
   
35.01   Cumulative capital improvement fund
   
35.02   Motor vehicle highway fund
   
35.03   Accident and thief report account 160
   
35.04   Firearms permit account 170
   
35.05   Special vehicle fund 175
   
35.06   Record perpetuation fund
   
35.07   Entertainment and promotion fund
   
35.08   Tree Harbour Enterprises, Inc. maintenance fund
   
35.09   Establishment, clarification and deletion of certain funds
   
35.10   Local major moves construction fund
   
35.11   Rainy day fund
   
35.12   Downtown revitalization project
   
35.13   Local option income tax fund
   
35.14   Community Crossings Grant Fund 447
   
35.15   Dental Reimbursement and Payment Fund 7704
   
35.16   Wastewater Sinking Fund 612
   
35.17   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
35.18   CARES Act Fund 150
   
35.19   Opioid Settlement Funds
   
35.19A   Canine Donation Fund 2302
General Tax and Finance
   
35.20   Tax abatement or tax reassessment procedures
   
35.21   Tax deduction fees within town
   
35.21   Purchasing rules for the town
   
35.23   Liens on real property
   
35.24   Personal or business checks
   
35.25   Credit card purchasing policy
   
35.26   Materiality and process for reporting material items
Town Membership and Interlocal Cooperation
   
35.35   Payment of dues for town membership
   
35.36   Interlocal cooperation
Schedule of Charges for Reports and Services of the Police Department
   
35.50   Fees for standards accident reports
   
35.51   Vehicle inspections
   
35.52   Handgun permit application fees
   
35.53   Transferring handguns
   
35.54   Copying documents for the Town Court
Internal Control Standards
   
35.70   Definitions
   
35.71   Mission
   
35.72   Objectives
   
35.73   Standards
   
35.74   Principles
   
35.75   Development and adoption of internal control procedures and policies
based on standards
   
35.76   Failure to abide by internal controls
   
35.77   Implementation of internal controls
GENERAL FUNDS
§ 35.01 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. The Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund is
established.
   (B)   Purpose. This special fund is established for the purpose of receiving
cigarette taxes allocated to the town pursuant to applicable state law and
funds shall not revert to the general fund.
   (C)   Capital improvements. Monies shall be used solely for CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS, herein defined as the construction or improvement of any property
owned by the town including but not limited to streets, thoroughfares and
sewers, the retirement of general obligations bonds, and salaries of public
officials and employees directly chargeable to a capital improvement.
(1996 Code, § 2-86)
§ 35.02 MOTOR VEHICLE HIGHWAY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. The Motor Vehicle Highway Fund is established.
   (B)   Purpose. This fund is to be used for the construction, reconstruction,
repair, maintenance, oiling, sprinkling, snow removal, curbs, separations of
streets and the purchase, erection, operation and maintenance of traffic signs
and signals. All funds shall be budgeted as provided by law.
(1996 Code, § 2-87)
§ 35.03 ACCIDENT AND THIEF REPORT ACCOUNT 160.
   (A)   There is established an Accident and Thief Report Account.
   (B)   A fee of $5 may be collected for Indiana Officer's Standard Accident
Report. These fees shall be deposited in a separate account to be known as the
Accident and Thief Report Account 160.
   (C)   This fund may be expended at the discretion of the Town Marshal for
any department purpose reasonably related to the keeping of accident reports
and records for the prevention of street and highway accidents.
   (D)   The rules for proper accounting and expenditure of monies collected
and deposited into the fund shall be those established by the State Board of
Accounts.
(1996 Code, § 2-88)
§ 35.04 FIREARMS PERMIT ACCOUNT 170.
   (A)   A Firearms Permit Account 170 is established for the Fremont Police
Department.
   (B)   The source of funds which are to be deposited into this fund are the
application fees collected for licenses to carry handguns under I.C. 35-47-2-3.
   (C)   This fund is to be used by the Fremont Police Department and used
exclusively for the purpose of training law enforcement officers in the proper
use of firearms or other law enforcement duties.
   (D)   The rules for proper accounting and expenditure of monies collected
and deposited into the fund shall be those established by the State Board of
Accounts.
(1996 Code, § 2-89)
§ 35.05 SPECIAL VEHICLE FUND 175.
   A Special Vehicle Fund 175 is established for the purposes of receiving
inspection fees.
(1996 Code, § 2-90)
§ 35.06 RECORD PERPETUATION FUND.
   (A)   A special fund is established pursuant to I.C. 33-37-5-2.
   (B)   The source of funds which are to be deposited in this fund are
copying, transmission and enhanced access fees permitted to be assessed under
I.C. 5-14-3, or any other statue permitting assessment and deposit into the
fund.
   (C)   Monies in the fund may be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   The preservation of records; and
      (2)   The improvement of record keeping systems and equipment.
(1996 Code, § 2-92)
§ 35.07 ENTERTAINMENT AND PROMOTION FUND.
   (A)   (1)   An Entertainment and Promotion Fund is established to receive
and expend funds for food, lodging, recognition of leaders and benefactors and
entertainment incurred in the promotion of the town and its citizens, the
recruitment of development contacts, attendance at seminars and conferences or
meetings with state, federal and local administrative officers.
      (2)   The Town Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate
funds from the general fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in
promoting the betterment of the town.
   (B)   Expenditures from this fund may include, but are not necessarily
limited to the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations
of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business or meetings or organizations to which the municipality
belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the municipality, including meetings, room rental, decorations,
meals and travel;
      (4)   Expenses incurred in the recognition of leaders and benefactors of
the town and community; and
      (5)   Expenses incurred in recognizing and rewarding town employees
through plaques, Christmas parties, recognition meals and the like.
(1996 Code, § 2-93)
§ 35.08 TREE HARBOUR ENTERPRISES, INC. MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   Creation of fund.
      (1)   There is hereby created a Tree Harbour Maintenance Fund.
      (2)   The fund shall be funded by Tree Harbour Enterprises, Inc.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this fund shall be to provide funds to
maintain or reconstruct the sewer line from Tree Harbour Enterprises, Inc. and
along state right-of-way of State Road 120.
   (C)   Appropriation and payment. This fund shall be appropriated and spent
in accordance with the general rules to which other funds of the town are
subject. The fund will be controlled by the town.
   (D)   Investment. All amounts placed in the fund shall be invested and
reinvested pursuant to the standard procedure followed by the town, and the
fund shall not revert to the general fund at the end of the year.
   (E)   Interest payments. Interest on the fund shall be opened up with the
tax I.D. number of Tree Harbour Enterprises, Inc. and/or any successor assigned
homeowners association and all interest generated from the fund shall be paid
yearly to the entity by the Town of Fremont, all taxes incurred shall be paid
by Tree Harbour Enterprises, Inc. or its assigned homeowners association,
required tax filings shall also be made by the entities.
(1996 Code, § 2-94)
§ 35.09 ESTABLISHMENT, CLARIFICATION AND DELETION OF CERTAIN FUNDS.
   (A)   The following funds are reestablished and clarified:
      (1)   Water Utility Cash Change Fund;
      (2)   Petty Cash Fund; and
      (3)   Police Donation Fund.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 2-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2010-06, passed 4-20-2010)
   (B)   The following funds shall be deleted:
      (1)   Restricted Ballpark Fund;
      (2)   Comprehensive Plan Grant Fund;
      (3)   DUI Grant Fund;
      (4)   Hometown Grant Fund;
      (5)   Diversified Escrow Fund;
      (6)   Operation Pullover Fund;
      (7)   CFF Grant Fund;
      (8)   IDFA Brownfield Site Grant Fund;
      (9)   Sidewalk Promissory Fund;
      (10)   Special Park Fund;
      (11)   Grant for Downtown Planning Fund;
      (12)   EDA By-Pass Grant Fund;
      (13)   IEDC State By-Pass Grant Fund; and
      (14)   BIF Industrial By-Pass Grant Fund.
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 1-17-2006; Ord. 2006-24, passed 11-21-2006; Am. Ord.
2010-04, passed 2-16-2010)
   (C)   The following funds are established:
      (1)   Fire Department Fund;
      (2)   Sinking Fund;
      (3)   Redevelopment Commission Project Fund;
      (4)   Town Hall Fund;
      (5)   Bicycle Rodeo Fund;
      (6)   Town Hall Lease/Rental Payments Fund;
      (7)   Parks and Recreation Fund;
      (8)   Flexible Spending Account Fund;
      (9)   Fire Department Special Purchase Fund;
      (10)   Cumulative Capital Development Fund;
      (11)   Pre-Tax Health Insurance Deduction Fund;
      (12)   Community Block Grant Fund;
      (13)   Memory Tree Program;
      (14)   Federal Economic Development Grant Fund;
      (15)   Indiana Economic Development Corporation Grant Fund;
      (16)   Tax Abatement Economic Development Fund;
      (17)   Debt Service Reserve Fund of State Revolving Fund Loan; and
      (18)   TIF District Fund.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-8-2005; Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-8-2005; Ord. 2005-03,
passed 2-8-2005; Ord. 2005-04, passed 2-8-2005; Ord. 2005-05, passed 2-8-2005;
Ord. 2005-10, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 2006-01, passed 1-17-2006; Ord. 2006-02,
passed 1-17-2006; Ord. 2006-13, passed 6-28-2006; Ord. 2006-15, passed 7-18-
2006; Ord. 2006-16, passed 7-18-2006; Ord. 2006-25, passed 12-19-2006; Ord.
2007-13, passed 10-16-2007; Ord. 2007-17, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. 2007-18,
passed 12-18-2007; Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2008-02, passed 3-18-
2008; Ord. 2008-04, passed 5-12-2008; Ord. 2008-06, passed 5-12-2008 )
§ 35.10 LOCAL MAJOR MOVES CONSTRUCTION FUND.
    Fund #450, Major Moves Fund, is established to allow the receipt and
expenditure of revenue from the Major Moves Highway Plan as of July 1, 2006.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 6-28-2006; Am. Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-20-2020; Am. Ord.
2021-05, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 35.11 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Rainy Day Fund. There is hereby established a "Rainy Day
Fund" to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general
or special tax levy on taxable property within the town whenever the purpose of
such tax levy has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance
remains.
   (B)   Purposes of the Fund. The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may
be used for the operation of the town and its various departments, when the
town does not have sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including, but
not limited to, salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment,
capital improvements, repairs and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfer to Fund. On or before December 31 of each year, the Town
Council shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and unencumbered
funds available to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, which transfer may not
exceed more than 10% of the town's total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations. The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of
funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as
other funds are appropriated that receive tax monies, upon making a finding
that the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the fund.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 35.12 DOWNTOWN REVITALIZATION PROJECT.
   (A)   The Downtown Revitalization Project shall be established for the
acceptance of funds towards the Downtown Revitalization Project to be spent
without appropriation effective July 28, 2009.
   (B)   Unless otherwise set forth herein, this section shall become effective
upon promulgation according to law.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 7-28-2009)
§ 35.13 LOCAL OPTION INCOME TAX FUND.
   (A)   The Local Option Income Tax Fund is established for the monies
received from the implementation of a Local Option Income Tax established in
Steuben County to be spent with appropriation for public safety purposes
effective July 28, 2009.
   (B)   Unless otherwise set forth herein, this section shall become effective
upon promulgation according to law.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 7-28-2009)
§ 35.14 COMMUNITY CROSSINGS GRANT FUND 447.
   Fund #447, Community Crossings Grant Fund, is established for receiving and
dispersing grant funds received from INDOT for road repairs and maintenance in
Fremont, IN to be spent with appropriation retroactive to April 2018.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 35.15 DENTAL REIMBURSEMENT AND PAYMENT FUND 7704.
   Fund #7704, Dental Reimbursement and Payment Fund, is established for
receiving and dispersing funds for a dental fund for employees and dependants
covered under the employee health plan and not covered under another dental
health plan and is to be spent without appropriation. An eligible dependent is
for those that are 21 and younger who are not covered by the medical health
plan and not covered by another insurance. This reimbursement can be for
cleanings, x-rays or dental work. This is a reimbursement of one time per year
and must include the original receipt, not a credit card receipt, with the
patient’s name, date of service and payment amount. Reimbursement will not be
made from a statement. Reimbursement will not be paid if covered by another
dental insurance. Policy for procedures for reimbursement and payment is
attached to Ord. 2018-08 as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 11-20-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed 12-30-2021; Am. Ord.
2022-10, passed 12-29-2022)
§ 35.16 WASTEWATER SINKING FUND 612.
   Fund #612, Wastewater Sinking Fund, is established for the monies received
from a bond issue for a wastewater project effective September 4, 2019.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 35.17 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established a fund to be known as
the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
   (B)   Sources of funding. The source of funding includes monies allocated to
the town from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and distributed to the town
in 2021 and 2022.
   (C)   Uses of funding.
      (1)   The town shall only appropriate and use the funds to cover costs
incurred by the town by December 31, 2024 for the following:
         (a)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
         (b)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the
COVID-19 public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers
of the town that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
         (c)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the town
prior to the emergency that being 2019; or
         (d)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure.
      (2)   The Town Council shall adopt a plan which provides details for the
use of funds.
   (D)   The ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund shall exist until
terminated by ordinance of the Town Council. Monies from this Fund may not be
transferred to another fund of the town.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 4- -2021)
§ 35.18 CARES ACT FUND 150.
   (A)   Fund number 150 titled CARES Act is hereby established to monitor
receipts and disbursements of the CARES Act funds for payroll reimbursement of
public safety employees who worked during the declared health emergency and for
any and all eligible receipts and disbursements that qualify for reimbursement.
   (B)   The Town Council approves the alternative accounting methods outlined
in SBOA memorandum issued September 30, 2020, and directs the Clerk-Treasurer
to proceed accordingly.
   (C)   The established Fund number 150 shall be in effect until it is deemed
that they are no longer useful and after proper audit procedures have been
completed.
(Res. 2020-4, passed 11-17-2020)
§ 35.19 OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUNDS.
   Funds #2256 Unrestricted and #2257 Restricted for opioid settlement funds is
established for monies received and dispersed.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 35.19A CANINE DONATION FUND 2302.
   Fund #2302 for the canine program is established for the monies received and
dispersed and to be spent without appropriation.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 12-29-2022)
GENERAL TAX AND FINANCE
§ 35.20 TAX ABATEMENT OR TAX REASSESSMENT PROCEDURES.
   I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 through 6-1.1-12.1-5, as it may be amended from time to
time, shall govern all petitions seeking up to a 10-year real property
reassessment, and for a 5-year amortization for manufacturing equipment.
(1996 Code, § 4-41)
§ 35.21 TAX DEDUCTION FEES WITHIN TOWN.
   A person who requests to file a deduction application or designation
application pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-3, I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4.5, or I.C. 6-1.1-
12.1-4.8 shall file an application at the Fremont Town Hall, and pay a filing
fee as follows:
 
$500   for an application related to personal property
$500   for an application related to real property
$500   for an application related to an eligible vacant building
       for an application related to any two (2) of the following types of
$850   deductible property; (1) personal property, (2) real property, and/or
       (3) an eligible vacant building.
       for an application related to all three. (3) of the following types of
$1,000 deductible property: (1) personal property, (2) real property, and (3)
       an eligible vacant building.
 
(Ord. 2005-21, passed 12-20-2005; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 35.22 PURCHASING RULES FOR THE TOWN
   (A)   The Town Council shall be the purchasing agent for the town. The
purchasing agent shall:
      (1)   Assume the duties, powers and responsibilities assigned to a
purchasing agent in I.C. 5-22 and establish small purchasing policies under
I.C. 5-22;
      (2)   Act as agent, or appoint a designee as that term is defined in I.C.
5-22, to acquire all materials, supplies, equipment, contractual services and
property of whatever description for all town departments, divisions or
municipally operated utilities;
      (3)   Establish such purchasing and contractual procedures as may best be
suited to obtain the greatest economic value to the town;
      (4)   Prepare specifications and notice to bidders and see that the
required notices are published, where bidding and publication of notices are
required by law;
      (5)   Cooperate and consult with the Clerk-Treasurer for the purpose of
ensuring that adequate funds are available prior to making necessary purchases
and acquisitions to assure they are within the limits of the budget
appropriations of the department or division in need of the material; and
      (6)   Act as the agent of the town to sell or exchange any personal
property ordered to be sold by the Fremont Town Council in accordance with
procedures prescribed by law.
   (B)   Upon declaration of any emergency, the purchasing agent or designee
may purchase or lease materials and services as may be necessary given the
gravity of the situation without giving notice, receiving bids or obtaining
Council approval, so long as the procedures outlined in I.C. 5-22 are followed.
   (C)   If a purchase is expected to be less than $50,000, the purchasing
agent or designee shall make purchases under the following small purchase
policies, subject to the limitations contained in I.C. 5-22.
      (1)   Each department head shall have the discretion to make purchases
which are deemed necessary for the efficient operation of their respective
departments and which are reasonably expected to be less than $100.
      (2)   For purchases expected to be more than $100 but less than $3,000,
each department head shall submit a purchase request to the Clerk-Treasurer.
The Police and Fire Departments, as well as the Town Court, may submit a
purchase request to the Clerk- Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby granted
the authority to approve the requested purchase, in his or her discretion,
after giving appropriate consideration to the urgency of the requested purchase
and budgetary concerns.
      (3)   For purchases expected to be more than $3,000 but less than $5,000,
each department head shall submit a purchase request to the Clerk-Treasurer who
will consult with the Town Council President for approval. The purchasing agent
or designee shall make the purchase in a manner which is, in the discretion of
the purchasing agent or designee, best suited to obtain the greatest economic
value to the town.
      (4)   For purchases expected to be more than $5,000 but less than
$50,000, each department head shall submit a purchase request to the Town
Council as purchasing agent. The purchasing agent or designee shall make the
purchase in a manner which is, in the discretion of the purchasing agent or
designee, best suited to obtain the greatest economic value to the town.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall limit the ability of each department
head to make recurring purchases of regular supplies and materials vital for
the continuing operation of their respective departments and which have
previously been granted approval by the purchasing agent or designee.
   (D)   If the purchasing agent or designee expects a purchase to be at least
$50,000 but not more than $150,000:
      (1)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies by inviting quotes from
at least three persons known to deal in the lines or classes of supplies to be
purchased;
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall mail an invitation to quote to such
persons at least 7 days before the time fixed for receiving quotes;
      (3)   If the purchasing agent receives a satisfactory quote, the
purchasing agent shall award a contract to the lowest responsible and
responsible offeror for each line or class of supplies required;
      (4)   The purchasing agent may reject all quotes; and
      (5)   If the Purchasing Agent does not receive a quote from a responsible
and responsible offeror, the purchasing agent may purchase the supplies under
I.C. 5-22-10-10.   
(Ord. 2004-04, passed 4-12-2004; Am. Ord. 2016-08, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 35.23 LIENS ON REAL PROPERTY.
   Whenever the town imposes a lien on real property pursuant to local
ordinances and the Town Code, the Clerk-Treasurer shall collect $30, in
addition to all other amounts owed, before releasing each and every lien.
(Ord. 2007-09, passed 7-17-2007)
§ 35.24 PERSONAL OR BUSINESS CHECKS.
   (A)   Whenever the town receives a personal or business check which is
returned for insufficient funds, the town shall collect from the individual or
business who wrote the check the face amount of the check and an insufficient
funds fee in the amount of $25, and all other just and adequate relief provided
by law.
   (B)   The Town Court shall not accept personal or business checks for
payment of the fines for the violation of the Traffic Code. Payment of fines
for violation of the Traffic Code to the Town Court shall be made by money
order or cashier's check. If an individual makes payment to the Town Court by
personal or business check, the check shall be refused and returned. In
addition to returning the check, the Town Court shall collect a fee of $10 for
each check returned. This fee shall be paid either by the individual or
business who wrote the check or by the individual or business charged with
violating the Traffic Code.
   (C)   The fee provided for under this section is imposed to cover
administrative time and expenses involved with the processing and returning of
checks. The fee shall not be deemed a punishment for violation of the Traffic
Code.
   (D)   The fee imposed by the Town Court is hereby made retroactive to
January 1, 2007.
(Ord. 2007-09, passed 7-17-2007)
§ 35.25 CREDIT CARD PURCHASING POLICY.
   (A)   The Fremont Town Council hereby approves of the continuing existence
and use of the current credit card accounts, including the payment of any
necessary annual fees. However, no purchases shall be made using any credit
card for any item(s) that exceed a cost of $2,000 without the express prior
approval of the Fremont Town Council.
   (B)   All credit cards issued in the name of the Town of Fremont shall be
kept, maintained and in the possession of the Town of Fremont Clerk-Treasurer.
The Clerk-Treasurer shall authorize the issuance and or cancellation of all
cards and the only one authorized to open a line of credit for the town with a
vendor.
   (C)   The credit cards shall only be used when necessary, in the judgment of
the Clerk-Treasurer, for the efficient and expedient purchase of supplies,
materials, services and travel expenses for the ownership, use and benefit of
the town.
   (D)   The employee shall sign out a credit card for the approved purchase,
writing down the date and time that the credit card was taken. After the
purchase, the credit card shall be returned immediately to the Clerk-Treasurer,
and the employee shall write down the date and time of the return of the credit
card. Upon return, the employee shall also deliver to the Clerk-Treasurer a
documented receipt for the item(s) purchased. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
maintain a log or accounting of all credit card written requests, dates and
times of sign out and return, and will provide receipts for items purchased to
the accounts payable clerk.
   (E)   Any employee using a town credit card in violation of the above policy
shall be responsible for reimbursing the town for any and all amounts charged
on the credit cards, and shall further be subject to discipline pursuant to the
Town of Fremont Town Personnel Policy.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 35.26 MATERIALITY AND PROCESS FOR REPORTING MATERIAL ITEMS.
   (A)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of
Town subdivision funds or
property, or funds or property the town holds in trust, shall be reported to
the President of the Town Council or his or her designee promptly upon
discovery.
   (B)   It will be the policy of the town to report to the State Board of
Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts of
cash in excess of $500, except for inadvertent clerical errors that are
identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the town.
   (C)   It will be the policy of the town to report promptly to the State
Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or
thefts of non-cash items in excess of $1,000, estimated market value, except
for those resulting from inadvertent clerical error or misplacements that are
identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the town, and except
for losses from genuine accidents.
   (D)   All town elected officials are expected, and all town employees and
agents are directed, to comply with this policy.
(Res. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016)
TOWN MEMBERSHIP AND INTERLOCAL COOPERATION
§ 35.35 PAYMENT OF DUES FOR TOWN MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from
the General Fund or from other funds to provide membership for the Town of
Fremont and the elected and appointed officials and members of the
municipality's boards, Council, departments or agencies in local, regional,
state and national associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature,
which have as their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal
operations.
   (B)   The Fremont Town Council is further authorized to budget and
appropriate funds to pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to
attend the meetings and functions of organizations to which the municipality
belongs.
(1996 Code, § 2-100)
§ 35.36 INTERLOCAL COOPERATION.
   The town is authorized pursuant to I.C. 36-1-7-1 through 36-1-7-12, as it
may be amended from time to time, to enter into joint agreements for the
purchase or exchange of property and services with other communities.
(1996 Code, § 2-101)
SCHEDULE OF CHARGES FOR REPORTS AND SERVICES OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.50 FEES FOR STANDARD ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   A fee of $5 shall be collected for the Indiana Officer's Standard
Accident Report and Standard Offense Report beginning July 1, 2006.
   (B)   All accident reports shall be paid for and picked up at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office. The Police Department shall provide the report to the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office for payment and pickup.
(Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 6-20-2006; Am. Res. 2008-03, passed 5-12-2008 )
§ 35.51 VEHICLE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   A fee not to exceed $5 nor less than $3 shall be charged for vehicle
inspection set forth in I.C. 9-17-2-12.
   (B)   The fee shall be deposited in a separate account known as Special
Vehicle Fund (175), which is also referenced in §
35.05 above.
   (C)   All VIN, boat and trailer checks will be pre-paid at the Fremont
Clerk-Treasurer’s Office and a form will be issued to the Police Chief
authorizing the check to be made.
(1996 Code, § 4-27) (Res. 2008-03, passed 5-12-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 9-29-4-2
   Vehicle inspection to occur before vehicle title issued, see I.C. 9-17-2-12
§ 35.52 HANDGUN PERMIT APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   A fee of $10 shall be collected for application for a handgun license
with $5 to be refunded if the license is not issued.
   (B)   The fee shall be deposited in a separate account known as Firearm
Permits 170 which is also referenced in §
35.04 above.
   (C)   All gun permits will be ordered through the Police Department and once
the Police Chief signs off that all information is correct, he or she will
provide to the Clerk-Treasure’s Office for the applicant to pick up the permit
and make necessary payment.
(1996 Code, § 4-28) (Res. 2008-03, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 35.53 TRANSFERRING HANDGUNS.
   (A)   A fee of $5 shall be collected for application for transfer of
handguns.
   (B)   The fee shall be deposited as follows:
      (1)   Three dollars into the State General Fund; and
      (2)    Two dollars into Firearm Permits 170.
   (C)   The accounts referred to herein are established by the State Board of
Accounts and to be used for Law Enforcement Training and Education.
(1996 Code, § 4-29)
§ 35.54 COPYING OF DOCUMENTS FOR THE TOWN COURT.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, through the Town Court, shall under circumstances
authorized by statute collect the following sums which are to be deposited in
the Clerk's Record Perpetuation Fund with respect to copying and/or
transmission of documents, to wit:
   (A)   A fee of $1 per legal or letter size page, including a page only
partially covered with writing, copied; and
   (B)   A fee of $5 per legal or letter size page, including a page only
partially covered with writing, transmitted by facsimile machine.
(1996 Code, § 4-30)
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 35.70 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter and for carrying out the duties prescribed
by it, the following definitions are adopted:
   MANAGEMENT.  Includes the Town Manager with respect to the town as a whole,
the Town Clerk-Treasurer with respect to any department or person handling or
having access to any public funds, and all department heads with respect to
their department in the town.
   OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE or OVERSIGHT BODY. The Town Council, acting as a
committee of the whole in pursuit of its obligations under I.C. 5-11-1-27 and
the Manual.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 35.71 MISSION.
   The town finds that its mission as related to internal control system is as
follows:
   To serve the people of the Town of Fremont with integrity, efficiency and
transparency in providing high quality government services, including in the
areas of public safety, utilities, economic development and infrastructure,
while safeguarding the public trust against risks of loss due to fraud, waste,
abuse and mismanagement.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 35.72 OBJECTIVES.
   The town finds that in fulfilling its mission, a system of internal controls
is necessary to advancing the following objectives:
   (A)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services are
performed and the performance of those providing governmental services
including by way of example budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash management
and planning among others;
   (B)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and
nonfinancial information to those inside the government and those outside of
the government including by way of example filing the annual report, audit and
examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept; and
   (C)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations
including by way of example following guidance documents such as State Board of
Accounts’ manuals, bulletins, directives and the Department of Local Government
Finance’s forms and directions and including other compliance related trainings
and documents.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 35.73 STANDARDS.
   The town hereby adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following 5 standards to promote government accountability and
transparency that are necessary toward meeting the above described objectives,
and explicitly adopts the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions dated September 2015, as thereafter may be modified.
   (A)   Control environment.
   (B)   Risk assessment.
   (C)   Control activities.
   (D)   Information and communication.
   (E)   Monitoring.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 35.74 PRINCIPLES.
   The town adopts the following principles in explanation of the pertinent
standards above and directs that such principles be followed at all levels of
town government:
   (A)   Control environment.
      (1)   The Oversight Body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
      (2)   The Oversight Body oversees the town’s internal control system.
      (3)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (4)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and retain
competent individuals.
      (5)   Management evaluates performances and holds individuals accountable
for their internal control responsibilities.
   (B)   Risk assessment.
      (1)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the identification
of risks and defines risk tolerances.
      (2)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives.
      (3)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks.
      (4)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant changes
that could impact the internal control system.
   (C)   Control activities.
      (1)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
      (2)   Management designs the town’s information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
      (3)   Management implements control activities through policies.
   (D)   Information and communication.
      (1)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town’s
objectives.
      (2)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (3)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
   (E)   Monitoring.
      (1)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
      (2)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies on a
timely basis.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 35.75 DEVELOPMENT AND ADOPTION OF INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURES AND POLICIES
BASED ON STANDARDS.
   (A)   In order to meet the above-described objectives and fulfill the town’s
mission, the town shall develop procedures based on the above-described
standards. The town, therefore, hereby directs that the above standards set
forth under § 35.73 be used to design, implement, operate and modify current
operations, reporting and compliance procedures that will safeguard the assets
of the town, promote reliability, accountability and transparency of financial
and non-financial information and to ensure compliance with all laws and
regulations for each office, department and personnel of the town for an
effective and reasonable internal control system of the town.
   (B)   Accordingly, the town authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to undertake a
review of the current internal control system of the town; to conduct
interviews with personnel of the town with regard to the nature and extent of
control exercised over public funds so as to identify appropriate personnel
under division (C) of this section, and to make recommendations regarding the
internal control system of the town. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall present his
or her findings to the Oversight Committee no later than October 1, 2016
regarding any deficiencies and recommendations with respect to advancing
policies and procedures in furtherance of this subchapter.
   (C)   The town authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer, in carrying out his or her
activities in regard to division (B) of this section, to determine the position
and persons who are the personnel who exercise duties involving receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity.
   (D)   No later than December 31, 2016, the Oversight Committee shall adopt
policies and procedures in accordance with this subchapter, after review and
consultation with the Clerk-Treasurer regarding areas of improvement and
deficiency in any existing policies and procedures so as to satisfy the terms
of this subchapter with regard to internal controls.
   (E)   Upon adoption of the procedures and policies by the Oversight
Committee, all personnel, whether a public official or employee of the town
shall comply with the procedures and any other policy regarding standards and
procedures determined necessary by the town now and as modified in the future.
   (F)   All personnel of the town whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town and shall cooperate with the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer or his or her designee so that the Clerk-Treasurer may timely certify
to the State Board of Accounts that the training was received annually by the
personnel as provided by law.
   (G)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 35.76 FAILURE TO ABIDE BY INTERNAL CONTROLS.
   (A)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the Internal
Control System commits a violation thereof and may result in the discipline,
including termination, of the employee.
   (B)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
Internal Control System may be subject to any action allowed by law.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 35.77 IMPLEMENTATION OF INTERNAL CONTROLS.
   This subchapter may be implemented by any and all of the following actions
or such others as authorized by this Council:
   (A)   Posting a copy of this subchapter in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
   (B)   Providing a copy of this subchapter to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
   (C)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this subchapter; or
   (D)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the polices
established by this subchapter to the town’s employees and elected and
appointed officials.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 7-19-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
   
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
   
51.   WATER
   
52.   SEWER
   
53.   GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICES
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Authority to establish water and sewage utilities
   
50.02   Registration and inspection of wells
   
50.03   Metering of well water
   
50.04   Well digging
   
50.05   Abandonment and sealing of private wells
   
50.06   Approval requirements
   
50.07   Underground or buried utilities
Wastewater Admissibility
   
50.25   Major contributor; definition, permits, application fees
   
50.26   Surveillance of major contributors
   
50.27   Monitoring of major contributors
   
50.28   Limitations of point of discharge
   
50.29   Licensed commercial or industrial waste hauling
   
50.30   Special agreements
   
50.31   Admissibility; prohibitions on discharges and unpolluted waters
   
50.32   Admissibility; limitations on radioactive wastes and use of garbage
grinders
   
50.33   Local limits
   
50.34   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
50.35   Liability for maintenance of pretreatment and other equipment
   
50.36   Right to reject waste
   
50.37   Industrial Cost Recovery System
   
50.38   Requirements
   
50.39   Deposit fee
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
50.50   Purpose
   
50.51   Risk assessment
   
50.52   Detection; red flag
   
50.53   Response
   
50.54   Personal information security procedures
   
50.55   Periodic updating of program
   
50.56   Review and approval
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH WATER AND SEWER UTILITIES.
   (A)   The town may regulate the furnishing of water to the public. It may
also establish, maintain and operate waterworks.
   (B)   The town may erect, maintain and operate works for the collection,
treatment and disposal of sewage.
(1996 Code, § 9-1)
§ 50.02 REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION OF WELLS.
   (A)   Registration.
      (1)   Every owner or occupant of real estate within the corporate limits
of the Town of Fremont, or real estate from which there is a lateral sewer or
other means or path of direct or indirect flow into the sewerage system, shall,
on a form provided by the Council, report the existence of the well to the
Superintendent.
      (2)   The information furnished on the form by the owner or occupant
shall include, among other items, the name of the owner and occupant of the
real estate, the location on the real estate of the well, the size of the well
pipe, the size (voltage, amperage and horsepower where ascertainable) of the
well pump motor and the purpose for which the well water is used by the owner,
occupant or others.
(1996 Code, § 9-35)
   (B)   Inspection. The Council may direct the Superintendent, Inspector or
any other employee to enter upon private property for the purpose of inspecting
to determine the existence of private wells, to oversee or to direct the
installation of metering or timing devices, and to read meters and devices.
(1996 Code, § 9-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 METERING OF WELL WATER.
   (A)    The Council shall determine by any reasonable means, including, but
not limited to, the use of water meters and timing devices, and the flow of the
well in order to determine the amount of sewage entering the sewage system.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of real estate shall pay for the metering
device, which shall be of a type approved by the Council, and which shall
remain the property of the owner but shall be under the exclusive control of
the Council and shall not under any circumstances be tampered with by the
owner, occupant or any other person.
   (C)   In the case of wells for household use only the Council may, in lieu
of metering or timing the use of the well, provide for the use of reasonable
estimates regarding water volume.
(1996 Code, § 9-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 WELL DIGGING.
   (A)   A person shall not hereafter dig or drive a well within the town
limits without first making application therefor to the Superintendent, which
application shall be on a form approved by the Council and shall show all
pertinent date regarding size and flow.
   (B)   The application shall be signed by both the installer of the well (the
contractor or other persons doing the work) and the owner or his or her agent
(other than the installer).
   (C)   The failure to file an application shall be a violation of this
chapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-38)
§ 50.05 ABANDONMENT AND SEALING OF PRIVATE WELLS.
   (A)   In the event the State Board of Health, Department of Natural
Resources, County Board of Health or the Town Council of the Town of Fremont
determine that the existence of a private well, well-like structure excavation,
construction well, temporary well or test well (all hereafter included in word
WELL) constitutes a hazard to a public health, safety, welfare, to the
preservation of the ground water resource, or the potable water source of the
town, it may order the abandonment and proper sealing of the private well.
   (B)   All abandoned or wells ordered abandoned by the town or any of the
above named agencies are to be filled with cement grout.
(1996 Code, § 9-38.1)
§ 50.06 APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No private well, well-like structure or excavation, construction well,
temporary well or test well is to be drilled without compliance with all
federal, state and county, and town regulations, laws and guidelines, and
without the written approval of the Town Council of the Town of Fremont.
   (B)   Any permanent private well 6-inch diameter or larger approved by the
Town Council shall be drilled and completed in accordance with Indiana State
Board of Health requirements, and shall in addition have a 25-foot concrete
grout seal placed in the void between the well casing, and shall be subject to
all anti-contamination requirements of the State of Indiana to which municipal
or public water supply wells are subjected.
(1996 Code, § 9-38.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 UNDERGROUND OR BURIED UTILITIES.
   (A)   Area designation. The Council hereby designates all areas of the town
over which it has jurisdiction, whether the area is publicly or privately
owned, as "strictly for underground or buried utilities," except that, the
physical space occupied by any currently existing aboveground utility is not so
designated.
   (B)   Regulation of existing utility pole. To the maximum extent permitted
by law, no utility shall be attached to an existing utility pole, as defined by
I.C. 8-1-32.3-12 (recently enacted legislation).
   (C)   Scope. The above designation shall be true and effective for any
permit authority, as defined by I.C. 8-1-32.3-8 or as amended or renumbered,
under the Council's authority and/or jurisdiction.
   (D)   Designation of emergency, urgent necessity. The meeting during which
this section was considered was convened under urgent necessity and/or
emergency circumstances that present actual or threatened disruption of
governmental activity within the town.
(Res. 2017-02, passed 4-29-2017)
WASTEWATER ADMISSIBILITY
§ 50.25 MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR; DEFINITION, PERMITS, APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A user discharging or introducing into the sewerage
system:
         (a)   A flow of more than 50,000 gallons per average workday;
         (b)   A toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in Pub. Law 92-500
as not adopted or as hereafter amended;
         (c)   A flow or pollutant concentration as now or hereafter defined or
identified as a problem pollutant or flow by applicable state or federal
regulations or by the Council;
         (d)   An effluent of significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributors, on the wastewater treatment plant or the
quality of its effluent; or
         (e)   Any substance unusual or unique in quality or quantity requiring
special attention or processing in order to effect proper wastewater treatment.
(1996 Code, § 9-21)
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   Any industrial user and any other user on demand of the Council
shall provide the town with sufficient information to determine if he or she is
a major contributor.
      (2)   Any user determined to be a major contributor shall be required to
obtain a permit which describes the wastewater constituents and characteristics
allowed and which sets forth the applicable surveillance schedule and the
monitoring requirements the user shall be subject to in order to discharge into
the sewerage system.
      (3)   A major contributor permit shall be valid for 4 years unless
processing changes are made that, in the opinion of the Superintendent or
Council, alter the wastewater constituents and characteristics significantly.
      (4)   In the event of a like change, a new application shall be filed
accordingly. A permit may be renewed without reapplication at the end of 4
years at the discretion of the town.
      (5)   Nothing in a major contributor permit shall constitute exception to
the prohibitions and limitations on wastewater admissibility as set forth
herein. Major contributors are subject to all applicable fees, rates and
charges set forth in §§
52.40 et seq.
      (6)   A user holding an NPDES permit from the State of Indiana is prima
facie entitled to a major contributor permit from the town. The holder of any
NPDES permit from the state shall file with the Superintendent a copy of each
report or application the permit holder files with the state, the copy to be
filed with the town not later than 3 business days after the filing with the
appropriate state authority.
      (7)   Each user who applies to the state for an NPDES permit shall
similarly file a copy of the application and all supporting documents with the
town within the 3-day time period.
(1996 Code, § 9-39)
   (C)   Application fees.
      (1)   Major contributors shall make application for the proposed
discharge on a form provided by the town.
      (2)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, studies or other information considered pertinent by the
Council.
      (3)   Permit fees for major contributors shall be as follows:
 
Initial Major Contributor Permit                                   Permit Fee
Industries connected to sewerage works prior to the effective date $20
of this section
Industries connected to sewerage works after the effective date of $100
this section
 
(1996 Code, § 9-40)
§ 50.26 SURVEILLANCE OF MAJOR CONTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   To establish a feasible surveillance schedule, the following classes
of major contributors are formed:
 
Class Qualification                             Minimum Surveillance Schedule
A     Flow of 100,000 gallons per day (0.1 MGD) Quarterly
      or more per average workday
      Flow from 0.04 MGD to 0.1 MGD per average
B     workday or discharge with constituents or Semi-annually
      characteristics that result in a major
      contributor classification
 
   (B)   The surveillance period will normally be for a period of 7 consecutive
days, but can be of longer or shorter duration at the discretion of the Council
or Superintendent.
   (C)   In cases where the surveillance period extends for a greater number of
consecutive days than 7, the town shall have the prerogative of selecting the 7
consecutive days of its choice for establishing rates and charges as provided
for in §§
52.40 et seq.
   (D)   The charge for each surveillance survey shall be $20 per day with a
maximum charge for 7 days of $140. The Council may adopt a schedule of lower,
but not higher, surveillance fees and may waive surveillance fees in proper
instances, particularly when surveillance is to detect or determine improper
discharge found, the Council may nevertheless charge a minimum fee of $10.
   (E)   Where the industry has an ongoing pretreatment facility or system
approved by the stateor by the Council, there will be no surveillance fee,
unless the Council finds that the user having a pretreatment facility or system
has repeatedly violated the effluent standards applicable to the user.
(1996 Code, § 9-41)
§ 50.27 MONITORING OF MAJOR CONTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   A major contributor shall install at its own expense:
      (1)   A suitable control manhole or other access means, together with
necessary appurtenances in or on each building lateral sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastewater; and
      (2)   Sampling devices as may be reasonably necessary, all unless
otherwise instructed by the town. A user may be required by the town to install
manholes or other access means to verify his or her status as a major
contributor or otherwise. Manholes or other access means and sampling and
testing devices shall be constructed and maintained to the town’s satisfaction
at the expense of the user, but shall be under the control of the town.
   (B)   The town may provide monitoring equipment during a surveillance period
for control manholes or other access means.
   (C)   Monitoring equipment shall, unless otherwise specified by the town,
include a device for automatically measuring flow and a device for
automatically taking a composite sample of wastewater during a 24-hour period.
(1996 Code, § 9-42)
§ 50.28 LIMITATIONS OF POINT OF DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge any substance directly into a manhole or other
opening in the sewerage system other than through the approved building (or
house lateral sewer, except in accordance with the terms of this chapter and
Chapter 52 or by express permission of the Council.
(1996 Code, § 9-43) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.29 LICENSED COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL WASTE HAULING.
   A person who is a licensed commercial or industrial waste hauler may not
discharge compatible pollutants and those incompatible pollutants within the
limits of admissibility set out herein to the wastewater treatment plant at any
time or place; however, the Council may accept a discharge if it elects in
given cases to do so. Wastewater so received must have been generated within
Steuben County.
(1996 Code, § 9-44) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.30 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Special agreements and arrangements between the town and any person within
Steuben County may be established by the Council within the terms and intent of
this section when, in the opinion of the Council, unusual or extraordinary
circumstances compel special terms and conditions whereby an unusual wastewater
may be accepted for treatment, subject to payment of applicable fees.
(1996 Code, § 9-45)
§ 50.31 ADMISSIBILITY; PROHIBITIONS ON DISCHARGES AND UNPOLLUTED WATERS.
   (A)   A user of the town sewerage system, whether or not the user is subject
to national categorical standards or state, local, or any other national
pretreatment standard or requirement, shall not allow the introduction of the
following into the town sewerage system:
      (1)   A pollutant from any source of nondomestic wastewaters that could
pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance of the
town sewerage system.
      (2)   A pollutant that could create a fire or explosion hazard in the
town sewerage system, including waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred 140 °  degrees Fahrenheit (60 °  Celsius) using the test
methods in 40 C.F.R. 261.21.
      (3)   A pollutant that could cause corrosive structural damage to the
town sewerage system, including a discharge with pH lower than 5.0, unless the
town sewerage system is specifically designed to accommodate such a discharge.
      (4)   A solid or viscous pollutant in an amount that could cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of
the town sewerage system.
      (5)   A pollutant, including an oxygen demanding pollutant (such as a
biochemical oxygen demand) released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant
concentration that could cause interference in the town sewerage system.
      (6)   Heat in an amount that could:
         (a)   Inhibit biological activity in the town sewerage system and
result in interference or damage to the town sewerage system; or
         (b)   Exceed 40 °  Celsius or 104 °  Fahrenheit at the town sewerage
system treatment plant unless the commissioner of IDEM, upon request of the
town, approves alternate temperature limits.
      (7)   Petroleum, oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in an amount that could cause interference or pass through.
      (8)   A pollutant that could result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors, or fumes within the town sewerage system in a quantity that may cause
acute worker health and safety problems.
      (9)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except:
         (a)   With the permission of the town; and
         (b)   When introduced to the town sewerage system at a discharge point
designated by the town.
      (10)   A waste that could cause or threaten to cause or is capable of
causing either alone or by interaction with other substances:
         (a)   A fire or explosion;
         (b)   Danger to life or safety of personnel;
         (c)   Air pollution by release of toxic or unusually malodorous gases
or malodorous gas producing substances;
         (d)   Discoloration or any other condition that interferes with
control of the treatment process.
   (B)   Admissibility; prohibition on unpolluted waters.
      (1)   Unpolluted water, including, but not limited to town water, cooling
water, process water or blown down from cooling towers or evaporative coolers
shall not be discharged through direct or indirect connection to the sewerage
system for purposes of diluting wastewater in order to reduce sewer rates or
charges of the user.
      (2)   Limitations on the amount of unpolluted water that is discharged
shall be part of a major contributor's permit.
(1996 Code, §§ 9-46, 9-47) (Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-20-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.32 ADMISSIBILITY; LIMITATIONS ON RADIOACTIVE WASTES AND USE OF GARBAGE
GRINDERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any radioactive
waste into the sewerage system.
(1996 Code, § 9-48)
   (B)   Only properly shredded garbage, as defined in §
52.01, may be discharged into the sewerage system.
(1996 Code, § 9-49) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.33 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The town is authorized to establish local limits pursuant to 40 C.F.R.
403.5(c).
   (B)   (1)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect
against pass through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater
containing concentrations in excess of the following daily maximum limit.
         (a)   10.0 mg/l ammonia
         (b)   0.10 mg/l arsenic
         (c)   250 mg/l BOD 5
         (d)   0.20 mg/l cadmium
         (e)   0.25 mg/l hexavalent chromium (CR,+6) for one day or 0.09 mg/
l hexavalent chromium for any 30 consecutive day average
         (f)   5.0 mg/l total chromium
         (g)   0.10 mg/l copper
         (h)   0.10 mg/l cyanide
         (i)   0.10 mg/l lead
         (j)   0.10 mg/l mercury
         (k)   (text missing) mg/l nitrogen (total)
         (l)   0.80 mg/l nickel
         (m)   200 mg/ l oil and/or grease (animal or vegetable origin)
         (n)   100 mg/l oil and/or grease (mineral or petroleum origin)
         (o)   0.10 mg/l silver
         (p)   0.50 mg/l total phenols
         (q)   250 mg/l total suspended solids
         (r)   0.50 mg/l zinc
         (s)   Any other water or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous
substance in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage
treatment process or to constitute a hazard to humans or animals or to create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the town sewerage system treatment plant.
      (2)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the town sewerage system. In the event any state or federal
regulations provide for different maximums than set forth herein, said maximums
shall apply. All concentrations for metallic substances are for total metal
unless indicated otherwise. The superintendent may impose mass limitations in
addition to the concentration-based limitations above. Any violation of the
limits set forth herein shall be subject to enforcement action as set forth in
this chapter.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in
individual wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or
admissibility requirements on discharges to the town sewerage system consistent
with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-14, passed 12-22-2003; Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 50.34 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Interceptors shall be provided at:
      (1)   All restaurants; and
      (2)   All industrial or commercial enterprises when, in the opinion of
the town they are necessary to contain grease, flammable wastes or sand and
other harmful inert materials.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be approved by the town and shall be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (C)   Interceptors shall be installed and maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operating condition by the person at his or her own
expense.
(1996 Code, § 9-51) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.35 LIABILITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters
or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the user at his or her expense, and shall at all reasonable times
be open to inspection and testing by the town.
(1996 Code, § 9-52)
§ 50.36 RIGHT TO REJECT WASTE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to reject waste and prohibit the
introduction of rejected waste into the sewerage system or the town may require
pretreatment of the waste when the strength or character of the waste is so
that it could cause damage to or interfere with the operation of the sewage
system.
   (B)   When pretreatment is necessary, the pre-treated wastes must meet the
restrictions contained in the Environmental Protection Agency Pretreatment
Standard.
(1996 Code, § 9-53)
§ 50.37 INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Town of Fremont has been awarded a grant from the Environmental
Protection Agency for the construction of wastewater treatment facilities.
   (B)   The town is desirous of complying with all federal regulations
promulgated by the administration of Environmental Protection Agency, and
therefore adopts the Industrial Cost Recovery Ordinance and incorporates the
same by reference.
   (C)   A copy of the Industrial Cost Recovery Ordinance is available for
public inspection during regular business hours in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1996 Code, § 9-86)
§ 50.38 REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall be met for all connections to the Town of
Fremont wastewater treatment infrastructure by users from the Town of Clear
Lake, Indiana.
   (A)   (1)   Tap fees of $1,000 for the Town of Clear Lake and $250 for the
Town of Fremont, for a total of $1,250, shall be paid to the Town of Fremont.
      (2)   This fee is subject to change based on the calculated flow.
   (B)   (1)   All laterals shall be a 4-inch SDR-26 slip joint water grade
pipe or greater meeting ASTM D2241 specifications.
      (2)   Installation shall be at no more than 1-1/4 inches of slope in 10
feet.
      (3)   Laterals shall not be placed closer than 10 feet from any private
water well.
      (4)   A clean out is required and shall be placed no more than 3 feet
outside of the foundation wall and shall extend above ground.
   (C)   (1)   The grinder pump and tank shall be an Environmental-1 Model
GP2012.
      (2)   Placement of the tank shall be at the direction of the Wastewater
Superintendent of the Town of Fremont or 1 of the Superintendent’s agents.
      (3)   The grinder tank shall be installed plumb in a bed of no less than
12 inches of pea stone and anchored with concrete in a manner set forth by the
Environmental-1 Corporation specifications, which may be obtained at the office
of the Fremont Wastewater Superintendent.
      (4)   Backfill shall be of pea stone or sand to a point 12 inches above
the discharge line. All open cut lines shall be bedded in sand and a cover of
no less than 6 inches of sand. All plumbing shall meet state and local codes.
   (D)   An audio and visual alarm box shall be placed so that it will be in
the line of sight of a public roadway when possible. The alarm box shall in no
event be hidden from view.
   (E)   (1)   A 10-3 with ground gauge wire shall be run from the circuit box
to the alarm panel. This wire shall be on a separate circuit and be on a 30-amp
breaker.
      (2)   An Environment-1 supplied power cord from the alarm box to the
grinder pump shall be installed in 1 inch PVC conduit and buried. All exposed
wiring from the circuit breaker panel to the alarm box shall be in conduit. All
electrical work shall meet state and local codes.
   (F)   (1)   A 1-1/4-inch SDR11 discharge line is required from the grinder
tank to the point of tap. This line shall be buried no less than 46 inches
below final grade.
      (2)   The tap saddle shall be a power-seal stainless steel model 3131AS.
The Wastewater Superintendent must approve any equivalent tap saddle before
excavation begins. A curb stop valve shall be placed in-line on the property
line on the homeowner's side.
      (3)   A swing check valve shall be placed next to the point of tap. A
tracer wire is required on the discharge line from the point of tap to the
grinder tank. Taps are the responsibility of the homeowner.
   (G)   Taps are allowed between 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Monday through
Thursday. The Wastewater Superintendent or an agent must be present when the
tap is made. No taps are allowed 24 hours before any holiday recognized by the
Town of Fremont without prior approval of the Wastewater Superintendent.
   (H)   Non-residential structures and multi-units shall be subject to
guidelines set forth under the Town of Fremont Sewer Use Chapter and reviewed
by the Wastewater Superintendent.
   (I)   All hookups are subject to the Town of Fremont Sewer Use Ordinance.
   (J)   All work shall be inspected and approved by the Town of Fremont
Wastewater Superintendent or 1 of the department's agents. All work will be
left uncovered until inspected and passed. In the event that work is covered
and cannot be viewed for inspection, a $100 re-inspection fee will be charged
to the landowner.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 3-8-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.39 DEPOSIT FEE.
   (A)   Each user of the Fremont wastewater utility shall pay a deposit fee in
the amount of $50 to the Fremont Clerk-Treasurer to ensure proper payment of
charges incurred for wastewater collection services, prior to the initiation of
services within the area served by the Fremont wastewater utility.
   (B)   Any outstanding fees for wastewater collection services may be debited
against the deposit fee collected under this section. Any remaining funds held
on deposit shall be returned to the utility user upon termination of service
and payment of any outstanding balance.
(Ord. 2004-23, passed 9-13-2004)
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 50.50 PURPOSE.
   This plan is intended to identify red flags that will alert our employees,
when new or existing accounts are opened using false information, protect
against the establishment of false accounts, methods to ensure existing
accounts were not opened using false information and measures to respond to
such events.
Contact Information:
The Senior Management Person responsible for this plan is:
Name: Mary K. Parsons
Title: Clerk-Treasurer
Phone Number: 260-495-7805
The Governing Body members of the Utility are:
Town Council Members.
1. Loretta S. Smart   Loretta S. Smart /s/
2. Steve Brown   Steve Brown /s/
3. Kay Clark      Kay Clark /s/
4. John N. Ludy   John N. Ludy /s/
5. Joe Thomas      Joe Thomas /s/
(Res. 2009-02, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 50.51 RISK ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The town has conducted an internal risk assessment to evaluate how at
risk the current procedures are at allowing customers to create a fraudulent
account and evaluate if current (existing) accounts are being manipulated.
   (B)   This risk assessment evaluated how new accounts were opened and the
methods used to access the account information.
   (C)   Using this information, the Utility was able to identify red flags
that were appropriate to prevent identity theft:
      (1)   New accounts opened in person;
      (2)   Account information accessed in person; and
      (3)   Account information accessed via telephone (person).
(Res. 2009-02, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 50.52 DETECTION; RED FLAG.
   (A)   The town adopts the following red flags to detect potential fraud.
   (B)   These are not intended to be all inclusive, and other suspicious
activity may be investigated as necessary:
      (1)   Identification documents appear to be altered;
      (2)   Photo and physical description do not match appearance of
applicant;
      (3)   Application appears altered or destroyed and reassembled;
      (4)   Personal information provided by applicant does not match other
sources of information (e.g. credit reports, Social Security number range and
date of birth);
      (5)   Lack of correlation between the Social Security number range and
date of birth;
      (6)   Information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity
(e.g. address or phone number provided is same as that of a fraudulent
application);
      (7)   Information commonly associated with fraudulent activity is
provided by applicant (e.g. address that is a mail drop or prison, non-working
phone number or associated with answering service/pager);
      (8)   Social Security number, address or telephone number is the same as
that of another customer at the utility;
      (9)   Customer fails to provide all information requested;
      (10)   Personal information provided is inconsistent with information on
file for a customer;
      (11)   Applicant cannot provide information requested beyond what could
commonly be found in a purse or wallet; and
      (12)   Identity theft is reported or discovered.
(Res. 2009-02, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 50.53 RESPONSE.
   (A)   Any employee that may suspect fraud or detect a red flag will
implement the following response as applicable.
   (B)   All detections or suspicious red flags shall be reported to the senior
management official.
      (1)   Ask applicant for additional documentation;
      (2)   Notify internal manager: Any utility employee who becomes aware of
a suspected or actual fraudulent use of a customer or potential customer’s
identity, must notify the Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement: The utility will notify the Police
Department at 260-495-9848 of any attempted or actual identity theft;
      (4)   Do not open the account;
      (5)   Close the account; and
      (6)   Do not attempt to collect against the account, but notify
authorities.
(Res. 2009-02, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 50.54 PERSONAL INFORMATION SECURITY PROCEDURES.
   The town adopts the following security procedure;
   (A)   All accounts will be opened in person at the Town Hall;
   (B)   Paper documents, files and electronic media containing secure
information will be stored in locked file cabinets;
   (C)   Only specially identified employees with a legitimate need, will have
keys to the cabinet, the Clerk-Treasurer, Utility Clerk and Administrative
Clerk;
   (D)   Files containing personally identifiable information are kept in
locked file cabinets except when an employee is working on the file;
   (E)   Employees will not leave sensitive papers out on their desks when they
are away from their workstations;
   (F)   Employees will store files and lock cabinets when leaving their work
areas;
   (G)   Employees will log off their computers when leaving their work areas;
   (H)   Visitors who must enter areas where sensitive files are kept must be
escorted by an employee of the town;
   (I)   Passwords will not be shared or posted near workstations;
   (J)   Password-activated screen savers will be used to lock employee
computers after a period of inactivity;
   (K)   Access to sensitive information will be controlled using passwords.
Employees will choose passwords with a mix of letters and numbers and change
monthly. User name will be different from password;
   (L)   Anti-virus and anti-spyware programs will be run on individual
computers and on servers daily;
   (M)   The computer network will have a firewall where the network connects
to the internet;
   (N)   The town will check references and do background checks before hiring
employees who will have access to sensitive data;
   (O)   New employees will sign an agreement to follow the company’s
confidentiality and security standards for handling sensitive data;
   (P)   Access to customer’s personal identity information is limited to
employees with a “need to know”;
   (Q)   Procedures exist for making sure that workers who leave the town or
transfer to another part of the company, no longer have access to sensitive
information;
   (R)   Employees will be trained twice a year;
   (S)   Employees will be alert to attempts at phone phishing;
   (T)   Employees who violate security policy are subject to discipline, up to
and including dismissal;
   (U)   Sensitive paper records will be shredded with a minimum of a cross cut
shredder before being placed into the trash; and
   (V)   Any data with sensitive storage media will be disposed of by
shredding, punching holes in or incineration.
(Res. 2009-02, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 50.55 PERIODIC UPDATING OF PROGRAM.
   The town will monitor identity theft schemes through media and education, in
order to continually re-evaluate the adequacy of its Theft Prevention Program.
Annually, the town shall implement changes to the program necessitated by
evolving patterns in identity theft.
(Res. 2009-02, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 50.56 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   This plan has been reviewed and adopted by the Town Council. Appropriate
employees have been trained on the contents and procedures of this Identity
Theft Prevention Program.
(Res. 2009-02, passed 4-21-2009)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
Rates and Charges
   
51.10   Scope
   
51.11   Rates
   
51.12   Fire protection rate
   
51.13   Additional water charges
   
51.14   Equipment charges
   
51.15   Connection charges
   
51.16   Billing charges
   
51.17   Assessment and collection
   
51.18   Deposits
Water Use
   
51.30   Cross connection control and water supply protection
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever the following terms or abbreviations are used in this chapter, they
shall have such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning. The Town Council shall have the
final authority in deciding the meaning of these terms.
   DISCONNECTION. The filing of a disconnection notice by the Clerk-Treasurer
with the Water Superintendent. While a disconnection may conclude with the
physical shut-off of a user’s water service, such shut off is not required to
incur a disconnection fee.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-21-2022)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.10 SCOPE.
   (A)   Uniformity. This subchapter uniformly regulates the rates and charges
supplied from or on behalf of the town and/or its waterworks.
   (B)   Applicability. The rates and charges established for any class of
customer, user, unit, or property shall apply to any additional customer, user,
unit, or property that is subsequently served and falls within the same class,
without any hearing or notice.
   (C)   Contracts. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the
right of the Town Council and another person to enter into and abide by a
special contract.
      (1)   Where this chapter conflicts with the terms of a contract entered
into by the Town Council, the terms of the contract control with respect to
that person.
      (2)   If an act would be considered a payment default under this chapter
but is specifically permitted in the contract, the act is instead not a
default.
   (D)   Responsible party. If the charges incurred pursuant to this chapter
should not be fairly assessed to a customer, they shall instead be charged to
another person (owner, tenant, user, tortfeasor, etc.) who is responsible for
the charges, as if such person were a customer of the waterworks.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 51.11 RATES.
   (A)   Usage rate. For the availability, use of, and/or service rendered by
the waterworks, the following usage rates shall apply:
 
Rate per Month (per 1,000 gallons) New Rates (per 1,000 gallons)
For the first 3,000 gallons        $6.31
For the next 5,000 gallons         $5.06
For the next 7,000 gallons         $3.79
For the next 10,000 gallons        $2.55
For all over 25,000 gallons        $1.90
 
   (B)   Monthly charge. This section does not apply to a person who is a
customer only with respect to Fire Protection Services. Except as provided in
division (C), the utility billing clerk shall assess on each respective utility
bill an amount based on the monthly usage reading, as determined from a unit's
water meter and as applied to the applicable rate provided in division (A).
   (C)   Monthly minimum payment. If the amount assessed by the utility billing
clerk for the usage charge should not meet the following minimum monthly totals
on a per-meter-type basis, the following totals shall be respectively assessed
instead:
Meter Type (in inches) Minimum Monthly Charge
Meter Type (in inches)        Minimum Monthly Charge
For unmetered residential use $18.92
5/8" - 3/4" Meter             $18.93
1" Meter                      $28.74
1-1/4" Meter                  $44.86
1-1/2" Meter                  $62.78
2" Meter                      $89.70
3" Meter                      $151.52
 
   (D)   Temporary users. The utility billing clerk shall assess on a special
utility bill an amount, based on the rates in this section and usage estimated
by the Waterworks Superintendent, a charge for water furnished to temporary
users, such as contractors, circuses, and the like.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 51.12 FIRE PROTECTION RATE.
   (A)   Direct charge. The utility billing clerk shall assess on the utility
bill of each customer who receives direct, reasonable, non-incidental fire
protection services a charge for the reasonable share of the amount of water
that was expended from the town's waterworks in rendering such services.
   (B)   Monthly charge. This division does not apply to a person who is a
customer only with respect to Fire Protection Services. The utility billing
clerk shall assess on each respective utility bill a fire protection charge in
accord with the following applicable rates:
Meter Type (in inches) Monthly Charge
Meter Type (in inches) Monthly Charge
5/8" - 3/4" Meter      $5.19
1" Meter               $12.98
1-1/2" Meter           $25.95
2" Meter               $41.20
3" Meter               $77.85
4" Meter               $129.78
6" Meter               $259.50
 
   (C)   Fire hydrant charges.
      (1)   The utility billing clerk shall assess on the utility bill a fire
hydrant charge of $379.48 per year for a fire hydrant connected to the
waterworks by or at the request of an owner or customer.
      (2)   Water taken from a fire hydrant for any purpose shall be charged at
the regular metered rates; provided, however, that the following shall apply:
         (a)   Water taken from a fire hydrant used in an emergency on behalf
of an owner, tenant, or customer shall be payable by and charged to that person
unless such person should have previously sent current written notice to the
nearest fire department refusing such service; but
         (b)   Water used in an emergency on behalf of the town shall incur no
charge.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 51.13 ADDITIONAL WATER CHARGES.
   (A)   Annual sprinkler charge. For the availability, use of, and/or service
rendered by the waterworks, the utility billing clerk shall assess on each
respective utility bill the following annual sprinkling charges based on the
diameter of a user's sprinkler connection.
Diameter of Sprinkler Connection (in inches) Annual Charge
Diameter of Sprinkler Connection (in inches) Annual Charge
1"                                           $10.55
l-1/4"                                       $16.47
1-1/2"                                       $23.72
2"                                           $42.16
3"                                           $94.87
4"                                           $168.61
6"                                           $379.46
8"                                           $674.58
10"                                          $1,054.03
12"                                          $1,517.81
 
   (B)   Bulk water. To the extent that a person takes water from the
waterworks or a body of water in the town, the utility billing clerk shall
assess on that person's utility bill a bulk water charge of $0.355 per 100
gallons, while billing a minimum of 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 51.14 EQUIPMENT CHARGES.
   (A)   Tap-in charge. The utility billing clerk shall assess on the utility
bill a tap-in charge whenever an owner or customer should install a new
connection to the waterworks in order to cover the cost of tapping the main,
furnishings and laying service pipe, corporation and stopcocks, service and
meter box, backflow preventer, and meter installation. The minimum tap-in
charge shall be $480, which is for a inch meter tap; provided that for a larger
meter tap the tap-in charge shall equal the cost of labor and materials
expended for the tap service.
   (B)   Frozen meter charge. The utility billing clerk shall assess on the
utility bill a frozen meter charge of $40 if the town should find that a user's
meter is frozen. The utility billing clerk shall assess on the utility bill the
entire cost of a new meter if the meter is unrepairable.
   (C)   Equipment installation and replacement. The utility billing clerk
shall assess on the utility bill a charge and equipment installation and
replacement fee of 150% of the costs incurred by the town related to services
or infrastructure of the waterworks that are properly attributable to a
customer, owner, tenant, or other person.
   (D)   After-hours service charge. To the extent a user requires the town to
send an employee or other agent to address a concern with the user's water
service, the utility billing clerk shall assess on that person's utility bill
an after-hours service charge of $30 per responder on each call, plus an
additional $30 per hour after the first hour of service.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 51.15 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Connection. The utility billing clerk shall assess on the utility bill
a connection charge of $30 per valve whenever the customer should request
service connection or reconnection to the waterworks.
   (B)   Disconnection. The utility billing clerk shall assess on the utility
bill a disconnect charge of $30 per valve whenever a customer should request
disconnection or violate a provision (including nonpayment) of this Title V for
which the remedy of disconnection has been chosen by the town.
   (C)   Payment required. If the reason for disconnection was the non-payment
of amounts owed to the Water Department, the town may refuse to reconnect
service until all amounts owed, including the (dis)connection charges, have
been paid in full.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 51.16 BILLING CHARGES.
   (A)   Returned payment fee. If a customer should make an apparent payment of
the utility bill and that payment is returned, rejected, or otherwise
dishonored by a financial institution for fraud, insufficient funds, or for any
other reason, then the utility billing clerk shall assess on the utility bill a
returned check fee of $30 for each such occurrence. If this payment was made in
response to a disconnection, then the town may disconnect water service to the
customer's unit immediately until all amounts owed are fully paid.
   (B)   Late/deferred payment charge.
      (1)   The utility billing clerk shall assess on the utility bill a late
or deferred payment charge on any portion of a utility bill related to the
Water Department that remains unpaid by the date on which it is due pursuant to
the town's customary billing practices.
      (2)   The amount of the late or deferred payment charge shall equal 10%
of the first $3 plus 3% on the excess over $3.
      (3)   The charge incurred under this division shall be imposed only once
with respect to any month for which an unpaid balance exists.
   (C)   Collection costs. The utility billing clerk shall assess on the
utility bill a charge for collection costs, including attorney and paralegal
fees, that the town has incurred to ensure prompt payment of an unpaid utility
bill.
   (D)   Taxes. The utility billing clerk shall assess on the utility bill any
taxes for the rates and charges provided in this chapter that are required to
be imposed by law and for which taxes have not already been included.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 51.17 ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Findings. The Town Council finds that the rates and charges
established pursuant to this subchapter are reasonable and just within the
meaning of I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.
   (B)   Schedule. A copy of the schedule of rates and charges adopted in this
subchapter shall be kept on file and be available for public inspection in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Utility bill. The user fees and charges assessed pursuant to this
subchapter shall be added to each customer's respective monthly utility bill,
and the town shall collect the assessed rates and charges.
   (D)   Town-owned real property. The utility billing clerk shall assess and
collect user fees from the town for all town-owned real estate using the rates
and charges established in this subchapter only to the extent required by
applicable law.
   (E)   Deposits. All amounts collected pursuant to an assessment in this
subchapter shall be deposited in the principal fund associated with the town's
Water Department.
   (F)   Authorization. The Clerk-Treasurer and utility billing clerk shall
take all action necessary or proper to implement this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 51.18 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Amount. In order to ensure customer responsibility for the payment
obligations under this subchapter, the utility billing clerk shall collect a
deposit for each account of a sewer and water customer in the following
amounts, based on property ownership interest:
 
Property Interest           Deposit Amount
Water Account - Owner-user  $50.00
Water Account - Tenant-user $100.00
Sewer Account - Owner-user  $50.00
Sewer Account - Tenant-user $100.00
 
   (B)   Refund. A deposit made pursuant to this section shall not be refunded
until the user is no longer a customer with respect to any town utility.
   (C)   Notarized statement.
      (1)   A utility deposit may not be refunded to the depositor until the
depositor provides the utility billing clerk with a notarized statement that as
of a certain date the unit being served:
         (a)   Has been conveyed or transferred to another person; or
         (b)   No longer uses or is connected with any part of the town's
utility services.
      (2)   A notarized statement made pursuant to this section must include
the name and address of the person to whom the unit is being conveyed or
transferred.
   (D)   Deductions. There shall be deducted from the amount of any returned
utility deposit any outstanding penalties, judgments, and utility costs and
charges that are owed to the town.
   (E)   Forwarding address. Except as provided in this section, the balance of
the deposit shall be forwarded to an address indicated by the depositor or, if
none is given, to the depositor's last known mailing address.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-21-2022)
WATER USE
§ 51.30 CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL AND WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION.
   (A)   Cross connection defined. A CROSS CONNECTION is any physical
connection or arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which
contains potable water from the municipal water system, and the other, water
from a private source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases
or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two
systems.
   (B)   Prohibition of cross connections. No person, firm or corporation shall
establish or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No interconnection
shall be established whereby potable water from a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the town
may enter the supply or distribution system of the municipality, unless
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of the supply shall have been approved by the Town of Fremont and by the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-
10.
   (C)   Duty of town. It shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to
be made of all properties served by the public water system where cross
connections with the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and re-inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be established by the town.
   (D)   Right of entry and inspection. Upon presentation of credentials, the
representative of the Town of Fremont shall have the right to request entry at
any reasonable time to examine the property served by a connection to the
public water system of the town for cross connections. On request, the owner,
lessee or occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection
agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such
property. The refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information
shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
   (E)   Discontinuance of water service upon notice. The Town of Fremont is
hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water service to any property
wherein any connection in violation of this section exists, and to take such
other precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water system. Water service shall be discontinued
only after reasonable notice is served on the owner, lessee or occupants of the
property or premises where a violation is found or suspected to exist. Water
service to such property shall not be restored until the cross connection(s)
has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   Emergency discontinuance without notice.
      (1)   If it be deemed by the Town of Fremont that a cross connection or
an emergency endangers public health, safety or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk of the
Town of Fremont and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for a hearing
within ten days of emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   Backflow preventers.
      (1)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced pressure principle backflow preventer in
the main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow
preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to
flooding or freezing.
      (2)   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level.
   (H)   This section does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, the IDEM
Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10 or the town plumbing ordinance, but is supplementary to
them.
   (I)   In addition to IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10-4(C), the following customer
facilities need a backflow prevention device:
   Insert facilities here.
   (J)   That if, in the judgement of the Superintendent of Water, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water consumer to
install such an approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his
or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner approved by the Superintendent of Water and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices as required by the Superintendent of Water
and in accordance with the IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(1996 Code, § 9-8) (Ord. 2013-04, passed 7-16-2013; Am. Ord. 2021-01, passed 4-
20-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-21-2022)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
General Regulations
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Bylaws and regulations of the Town Council
   
52.03   Damaging and defacing of property
   
52.04   Right of entry of Superintendent and Inspector
   
52.05   Failure to comply with terms
   
52.06   Falsifying of information
   
52.07   Biennial review
   
52.08   Hybrid pretreatment
   
52.09   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
52.10   Judicial enforcement remedies
   
52.11   Remedies nonexclusive and nonexhaustive
   
52.12   Increased discharges
   
52.13   Pretreatment of wastewater
Connection to System
   
52.20   Privies, septic tanks and cesspools
   
52.21   When connection is required
   
52.22   When public sewer is not available
   
52.23   Requirements for connection
   
52.24   Extensions outside of town
   
52.25   Connections to system by certain out-of-town properties
   
52.26   Prohibition of discharge to natural outlets
   
52.27   Right to prohibit new connections
Charges, Surcharges and Service Fees
   
52.40   Persons subject to fees and charges
   
52.41   Effective date; extension to additional property
   
52.42   Rate basis
   
52.43   Schedule of meter reading
   
52.44   Procedure; water obtained from other sources
   
52.45   When single meter serves more than one lot or building
   
52.46   Procedure; single water meter serves more than one dwelling unit
   
52.47   Portion of water not entering sewerage system
   
52.48   Metering of sewage; billing procedure
   
52.49   Tenants may be billed; examination of records
   
52.50   Liability of town for charges
   
52.51   Surcharge; based on flow and concentration; rates
   
52.52   Sewer charge classes
   
52.53   Delinquent accounts
   
52.54   Collection through court actions
   
52.55   First billing
   
52.56   Notification
   
52.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Sewage charges
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise defined herein, terms shall be as adopted in the
latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association, and American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation and as set forth in 40
C.F.R. § 136.
   (B)   Waste constituents and characteristics shall be measured by Standard
Methods unless a mutually agreed upon accepting alternative method is adopted,
or in another method established by state or federal regulatory agencies.
   (C)   Monitoring and metering will be carried out using customarily accepted
methods.
   (D)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED or DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
         (1)   If the user is a corporation:
            (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of
the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person
who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation;
or
            (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
that govern the operation of the regulated facility, including having the
explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations,
and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term
environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure
that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete
and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
         (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
         (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility:
a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
         (4)   The individuals described in subdivisions (1) through (3) above
may designate a DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in
writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for
the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the town.
      BENEFICIAL USES. These include, but are not limited to, domestic,
municipal, agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation,
aesthetic enjoyment, navigation and the preservation and enhancement of fish,
wildlife and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses, both tangible
or intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial wastes: the quantity of dissolved oxygen in milligrams per
liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic matter by
aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for 5 days at
20°C. The laboratory determinations of BOD shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods, therein and conventionally referred
to as BOD5.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil pipes, waste pipes and other
drainage pipes inside a building and conveys it to a point outside of the
building.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD OF SEWAGE, SEWAGE EFFUENT, POLLUTED WATERS
or INDUSTRIAL WASTES. A measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion of the
organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong
chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface or ground water
runoff in addition to sewage.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastewater having or containing:
         (a)   Measurable biochemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Suspended solids;
         (c)   ph;
         (d)   Fecal coliform bacteria; or
         (e)   Additional pollutants identified or defined in the Town's
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit or by the state
or board.
      CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS (of WASTEWATER). The chemical, physical,
bacteriological and radiological properties, including volume, flow rate and
other properties which serve to define, classify or measure the contents,
quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
      COUNCIL. The Town of Fremont Town Council. It is the governing body of
the sewerage system of the town, which system is a public service.
      DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT.  The maximum allowable discharge limit of a
pollutant during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
      DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works to
fund debt service on outstanding revenue bonds and current capital costs.
      EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present,
flowing out of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
      GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food or from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Any pollutants which are not compatible
pollutants.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of
energy discharged, permitted to flow into or enter the sewerage system or
ground from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business process or
from the development, recovery or processing of any natural resource carried on
by any person and shall further mean any waste from an industrial user, but not
including sanitary sewage or storm water.
      INFILTRATION. The water entering the sewerage system directly or via
private sewers, building drains and building sewers connected therewith, from
the ground, through means such as, but not limited to, defective pipe joints,
connections or manhole walls.
      INFLOW. Water other than wastewater entering the sewerage system from
sources such as leaders, cellar, yard area and foundation drains, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole areas, cross connections between storm and
sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm water, surface runoff and
street wastewater or drainage.
      INSPECTOR. A person authorized by the Town Council or the Superintendent
to perform inspection duties assigned to him or her by the Town Council or
Superintendent.
      INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, does one of the following:
         (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods.
         (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES
permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
         (3)   Prevents the use of the POTW's sewage sludge or its sludge
disposal method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
            (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1345).
            (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. 6901),
including:
               1.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
               2.   the rules contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. 6941).
            (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401).
            (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601).
      LATERAL SEWER or BUILDING (OR HOUSE) SEWER. The extension from the
building to the sewerage system or other place of disposal.
      LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the town
upon all users to implement the general and specific discharge prohibitions
listed in 40 C.F.R. 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A user discharging or introducing into the sewerage
system:
         (a)   A flow of more than 50,000 gallons per average workday;
         (b)   A toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in Pub. Law 92-500
as not adopted or as hereafter amended;
         (c)   A flow or pollutant concentration as now or hereafter defined or
identified as a problem pollutant or flow by applicable state or federal
regulations or by the Council;
         (d)   An effluent of significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributors, on the wastewater treatment plant or the
quality of its effluent; or
         (e)   Any substance unusual or unique in quality or quantity requiring
special attention or processing in order to effect proper wastewater treatment.
      MAY. May means that the act referred to is both permissible and approved.
      NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage such as discharged by residential users,
with a BOD5 concentration not in excess of 250 mg/l and a suspended solids
concentration not in excess of 250 mg/l.
      NPDES PERMIT. National pollutant discharge elimination system permit now
or hereafter held by the Town and setting forth conditions for the discharge of
any pollutants or combination of pollutants.
      NUISANCE. Any substance which is injurious to health or offensive to the
senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with
the comfort or enjoyment of life or property.
      OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenses related directly to the operating
and maintaining including replacement of the sewage works as identified in the
Uniform System of Accounts for Wastewater Utilities or as prescribed by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts under the general headings, plant operation and
maintenance, sewer operation and maintenance, customer accounts, administrative
and general, insurance and taxes.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the town sewerage system into
waters of the United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the town's NPDES permit, including an increase
in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
      PERSON. Any natural person, or public or private corporation or any other
entity whatsoever.
      pH. The conventional scientific measure of the degree of acidity or
alkalinity.
      POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of water by waste, contaminants
or pollutants to a degree which renders the water unfit for beneficial users.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned by the town.
      RECEIVING SEWER SYSTEM. The Fremont municipal sewer system.
      REPLACEMENT.
         (a)   Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which works were designed
and constructed.
         (b)   The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes REPLACEMENT.
      SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage such as, and having the characteristics of,
domestic sewage from dwellings, factories or institutions, free from storm and
surface water and industrial wastes.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial waste waters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial
plants and institutions.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying sewage or other liquids, and
solids suspended or entrained therein.
      SEWER CHARGES. The total of the user charge and the debt service charge.
      SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The network of publically owned sewers and appurtenances
used for collection, transporting, and pumping wastewater to the wastewater
treatment plant itself.
      SHALL. Shall means the act referred to is mandatory.
      SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to a degree so that all
particles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally
prevailing in the sewerage system, with no particle being greater than 1/2 inch
in dimension.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only storm waters, surface runoff
street wash waters and drainage.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent, subject to the control of the Council
in all matters, of the Sewer Department.
      SURCHARGE.
         (a)   A charge for sewerage services in addition to the basic sewer
charge.
         (b)   This charge is assessed users whose sewage is of a nature so
that it imposes upon the sewage works a burden greater than that covered by the
basic user charge.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. 
         (a)   Solids which either float on the surface of or are in suspension
in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by laboratory
filtration.
         (b)   Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per liter.
Quantitative determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set
forth in Standard Methods.
      TOWN. The Town of Fremont, Indiana.
      USER. A person who introduces into or discharge into, including both the
owner and occupant of real estate from which is introduced or discharged into
the sewerage system, any substance whatever.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user's
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance (including)
replacement of the works.
      USER CLASSES.
         COMMERCIAL USER. Transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments
or places engaged in providing merchandise for personal, household or
industrial consumption and/or rendering services to others.
         GOVERNMENTAL USER. A user engaged in legislative, judicial or
administrative activities of federal, state and local governments, such as
court houses, police and fire stations, city halls and similar governmental
users.
         INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who discharges industrial wastes, as defined
above.
         INSTITUTIONAL USER. A publicly or privately owned school, hospital,
nursing home, prison or other similar institution whose wastes are segregated
domestic wastes.
         RESIDENTIAL USER. A user who introduces only normal domestic sewage
from a single-family or multi-family dwelling into the sewerage system.
      WASTE. Sanitary sewage and any and all other waste substances, liquid,
solid, gaseous or radio-active, associated with human or animal origin, or from
any production, processing, manufacturing or industrial operation of whatever
nature, including waste placed within containers of whatever nature prior to,
and for purposes of, disposal.
      WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste from residences, business buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with the ground, surface and storm waters that may be present.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures
used by the town for treatment and disposing of sewage, sludge and other sewage
constituents and products.
(1996 Code, § 9-21) (Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 52.02 BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council may adopt and enforce reasonable regulations not in
conflict herewith as it may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and
efficient management of the town’s sewerage system and wastewater treatment
plant and for the construction and use of building (or house) lateral sewers
and connections to the sewerage system, which regulations may include
limitations of or prohibition of introduction of or infiltration by storm
water, surface water and ground water into the sewerage system.
(1996 Code, § 9-22)
§ 52.03 DAMAGING AND DEFACING OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person shall not maliciously, willfully or recklessly break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the town sewerage system.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(1996 Code, § 9-23)
§ 52.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF SUPERINTENDENT AND INSPECTOR.
   The Superintendent, Inspector or other duly authorized employee of the town,
upon reasonable notice to any person who is owner, tenant or occupant of any
real estate, is empowered to enter, upon presentation of proper credentials,
all premises for the purposes of inspection, observation, measuring, sampling
and testing water, sewage and industrial waste.
(1996 Code, § 9-24)
§ 52.05 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TERMS.
   (A)   Accidental discharges.
      (1)   A user shall notify the Superintendent upon accidently discharging
chemicals, corrosive substances, or anything harmful to the sewerage system or
treatment process, or wastewaters in violation of this section, to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the town to minimize damage to the sewerage
system, treatment processes, and the receiving stream.
      (2)   This notification shall be followed within 7 days of the date of
occurrence by a detailed written report, signed by the user, describing the
causes of the accidental discharge and the measures being taken to prevent
future similar occurrences.
      (3)   Notification will not relieve users of liability for any expense,
loss, or damage to the sewerage system, wastewater treatment plant, or
treatment process, or any fines or penalties imposed by the Council, which
expense, loss, or damage shall be paid for by the user.
      (4)   A notice shall be furnished and permanently posted advising
designated responsible employees to call the Superintendent in case of
accidental discharge in violation of this section.
   (B)   Continued failure to meet wastewater admissibility requirements or the
terms of major contributor permits. The Council shall have the methods of
recourse stated in Chapters 50 and 52 of the town code of ordinances in the
event of repeated or willful failure by a user to meet the wastewater
admissibility requirements of this chapter. In addition, the town shall have
and the Council may exercise all other legally available remedies.
   (C)   Administrative appeals.
      (1)   Any user affected by any decision, action, or determination,
including cease and desist orders, made by the Superintendent, interpreting or
implementing the provisions of this chapter, any permit issued herein, or any
action, decision, or regulation of the Council adopted pursuant thereto, may
file with the Council a written request for review and reconsideration within
10 days of a decision, action, or determination, setting forth in detail the
facts supporting the user's request for reconsideration.
      (2)   The appeal shall, if reasonably possible, be heard by the Council
within 30 days from the date of filing. The Superintendent's decision, action,
or determination shall remain in effect during a period of reconsideration,
unless the Council otherwise determines on request of the user.
(1996 Code, § 9-25) (Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 52.06 FALSIFYING OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   A person shall not knowingly make or submit to the town a false
statement, representation, record, report, plan or other document required to
be filed hereunder or under a duly adopted regulation of the Council, or
voluntarily filed with the intent that the town rely thereon, or falsify,
tamper with or knowingly render inaccurate any monitoring, testing, measuring
or timing device required or installed under these regulations.
   (B)   A person shall not, during any monitoring or surveillance period,
alter industrial processes or other activities for the purpose of rendering
samples drawn or measurements taken during the monitoring or surveillance
unrepresentative or uncharacteristic of normal operations, flows or
concentrations of pollutants.
(1996 Code, § 9-26) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 BIENNIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Fremont shall review not less often
than every 2 years the wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the
total costs of operation and maintenance of the treatment works, and its
approved user charge system.
   (B)   The Town Council shall revise the charges for users or user classes to
accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary for the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the treatment works;
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly; and
      (4)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay principal and interest on bonds
payable and other obligations of the sewage works in order to meet the
requirements of the sewage works bond or any bonds outstanding.
(1996 Code, § 9-74)
§ 52.08 HYBRID PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Compliance activities. The Town of Fremont, Indiana shall perform all
activities, as may be required, to carry out inspection, surveillance and
monitoring-type procedures necessary to so determine, independent of
information supplied by industrial users, compliance or non-compliance with a
State of Indiana issued industrial waste pretreatment (IWP) permit limitations
and monitoring requirements.
   (B)   Admission to property. Whenever it is necessary for purposes of the
rules and regulations, the town’s representative, upon presentation of proper
credentials, shall be authorized to enter any premises of an industrial user
(IU) where a discharge source or pretreatment system is located or where
records are required to be kept under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(1) to assure the
compliance with State of Indiana issued IWP permits.
   (C)   Regulatory actions. The Town of Fremont, Indiana shall take
appropriate action for the immediate and effective stoppage or prevention of
the discharge of any pollutant to the Fremont sewage systems by any IU where
there is reasonable appearance of imminent endangerment to the health or the
welfare of the public, the environment or appearance to threaten or interfere
with the operation of the Fremont sewage facilities, or, implement other
remedial action as may be necessary to achieve the sole purpose of this
section.
   (D)   Fees and charges. The Town of Fremont, Indiana shall adopt a schedule
of fees and charges to industrial users (IU) for the purpose of offsetting
costs incurred by the town during their sampling, monitoring, inspecting and
for the analysis of IUs discharge into the town’s sewage facilities causing the
town to implement activity to verify IU compliance to their State of Indiana
issued (IWP) permits.
   (E)   Conflict. All local ordinances, or parts of local ordinances,
inconsistent with or conflicting with any part of this section are hereby
repealed to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
(1996 Code, § 9-78)
§ 52.09 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. When the Superintendent finds that a user
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or admissibility
requirements, the Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within 15 days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent or the town to take any action, including emergency actions or
any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The Superintendent, upon approval of the Town Council,
may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance, or other similar
documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible for
noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by the
user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the compliance
orders and cease and desist orders set forth in this section and shall be
judicially enforceable.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. The Superintendent may order a user which has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or admissibility
requirements, to appear before the Superintendent or Town Council and show
cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be
served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least 15 days prior to the hearing. Such notice
may be served on any authorized representative of the user as defined in this
chapter. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
   (D)   Compliance orders. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter or an order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or admissibility
requirements, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for
the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified
time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or admissibility requirements, nor does a compliance order relieve the
user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter or an order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or admissibility
requirements, or that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and
desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
   (F)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or admissibility requirements, the town may
fine such user in an amount not to exceed $2,500.00. Said fine shall be
assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In the case of monthly or other
long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during
the period of violation.
      (2)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request
for the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the
fine amount within 15 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter, before the Town
Council. In the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment, together
with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Town
Council may add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such
as notices and orders, to the fine.
      (3)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (G)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user's discharge,
after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or
cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons. The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user's discharge,
after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the town sewerage system, or which presents or may present an
endangerment to the environment.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the town
sewerage system, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The
Superintendent may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of
endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings under the
termination of discharge section of this section are initiated against the
user.
      (3)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under the show cause hearing or termination
of discharge sections.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   (H)   Termination of discharge.
      (1)   Any user who violates the following conditions is subject to
discharge termination:
         (a)   Violation of any provision of this chapter or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or admissibility requirements;
         (b)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         (c)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
         (d)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
         (e)   Violation of the pretreatment standards or admissibility
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to present defenses in a show cause
hearing, as set forth in this section, as to why the proposed action should not
be taken. Exercise of this option by the Superintendent shall not be a bar to,
or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 52.10 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Injunctive relief. When the Superintendent finds, that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter or an order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or admissibility
requirements, the Superintendent may petition Steuben County Court or another
court of competent jurisdiction for the issuance of a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance
of the provisions of this chapter or order issued hereunder on activities of
the user. The town may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal
and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
admissibility requirements, shall be liable to the town for a maximum civil
penalty of $2,500.00 per violation, per day. In the case of a monthly or other
long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during
the period of the violation.
      (2)   The town may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs, and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual, damages incurred by the town.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil penalty, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including but not limited to the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 52.11 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE AND NONEXHAUSTIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are neither exclusive nor
exhaustive. The Superintendent and the town may take any, all, or any
combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of
pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the town's
enforcement response plan. However, the Superintendent may take other action
against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the Superintendent is
empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant
user. In addition to the remedies set forth herein, the town reserves the right
to take all other legal action, including filing a lawsuit, against a user, any
other person, or entity. Such legal action shall include but is not limited to
a cause of action to recover for damages to the town sewerage system or the
wastewater treatment plant caused by a user's violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 52.12 INCREASED DISCHARGES.
   The town shall have the authority to accept or deny any new or increased
discharges from any indirect discharger into the town sewerage system.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 52.13 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and any other required
compliance standards set forth in this chapter within the time limitations
specified by EPA, the state, or the Superintendent, whichever is more
stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated,
and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities
and operating procedures shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review,
and shall be acceptable to the Superintendent before such facilities are
constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the town under the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Restrictions on discharge. Whenever deemed necessary, the
Superintendent may require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow
periods, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific
sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage
wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be
necessary to protect the town sewerage system and determine the user's
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Storage and flow-control facility. The Superintendent may require any
discharging into the town sewerage system to install and maintain, on their
property and at their expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to
ensure equalization of flow. An individual wastewater discharge permit may be
issued solely for flow equalization.
   (D)   Grease traps.
      (1)   Grease traps shall be maintained to meet concentration limits set
forth in this chapter. Records for this maintenance must be kept and be
available upon request of the Wastewater Superintendent, or his or her
representative, upon inspection.
      (2)   New businesses that meet the requirements for the installation of a
grease trap by the Wastewater Superintendent or Health Department shall install
a grease trap and follow the rules herein and in this chapter. An existing
business that incurs problems meeting the concentration limits of this chapter
will be required to install a grease trap to meet the requirements of this
chapter upon request of the Wastewater Superintendent.
      (3)   Grease traps shall be maintained to meet discharge requirements set
forth in this chapter. Maintenance records shall be kept on file and made
available to the Wastewater Superintendent, or his or her representative, upon
request.
   (E)   Combustible gas detection meter. Users with the potential to discharge
flammable substances may be required to install and maintain an approved
combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-20-2012)
CONNECTION TO SYSTEM
§ 52.20 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND CESSPOOLS.
   Except as otherwise provided by this title, a person shall not construct or
maintain a privy, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for
the disposal of waste waters.
(1996 Code, § 9-27) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 WHEN CONNECTION IS REQUIRED.
   Any person constructing a new house or other building for occupancy,
employment, recreation, industrial or commercial activity within the town and
abutting any street, alley or easement in which there is now located a public
sanitary or combined sewer, or along or across which there is access to a
sewer, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect to the sewer in accord with applicable
ordinances and regulations, and shall not discharge sewage elsewhere than into
the sewerage system, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the
property line.
(1996 Code, § 9-28) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 WHEN PUBLIC SEWER IS NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.21 above, the building lateral sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with all recommendations of the Indiana State Board
of Health.
   (B)   At a time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by
a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
52.21 above, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this section, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewer disposal facilities shall be abandoned.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (D)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the local
Health Officer.
(1996 Code, § 9-29) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)    No authorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be 2 classes of building sewer tap permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial waste.
      (2)   (a)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make the
application on a special form furnished by the town.
         (b)   The permit applications shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgement of
the inspector.
         (c)    In either case, a building sewer tap permit and inspection fee
of $500 for all connections made outside the town limits and in the amount of
$1,500 for all connections made outside the town limits. The appropriate
building sewer tap permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   (1)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
      (2)   The owner or the person installing the building sewer for the owner
shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation.
      (3)   A copy of the schedule of rates and charges adopted herein shall be
kept on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer. The rates and charges established for any class of user or property
shall cover any additional property that is subsequently served and falls
within the same class, without any hearing or notice.
   (D)   (1)   Determining major contributors. Each commercial and industrial
user shall supply the town with information about expected wastewater
constituents and characteristics to be used in determining whether or not the
user will be a major contributor.
      (2)   Separate sewer requirements.
         (a)   A separate and independent building (or home) lateral sewer
shall be provided for every building (or house); except where one building (or
house) stands at the rear or another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building (or house) through an
adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway.
         (b)   In those cases, the building (or house) lateral sewer from the
front building (or house) may be extended to the rear building (or house) and
the whole considered as 1 building (or house) lateral sewer.
      (3)   Use of old building (or house) lateral sewer for a new building (or
house). Old building (or house) lateral sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings (or houses) only when they are determined, upon examination and
test by the Inspector, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Connection specifications.
         (a)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM
specification or equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specification or equal;
or other suitable material approved by the Inspector.
         (b)   Joints shall be tight and waterproof. Any part of the building
sewer that is located within 10 feet of a water service pipe shall be
constructed of case iron soil pipe with leaded joints.
         (c)   Cast iron pipes with leaded joints may be required by the
Inspector where the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots.
         (d)   If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer
shall be of cast iron soil pipe, except that non-metallic material may be
accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle as approved by the
Inspector.
   (E)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than 6
inches. The slope of a 6-inch pipe shall not be less than 1/8 inch per foot.
   (F)   (1)   Whenever possible the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
      (2)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within 3 feet of any
bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened.
      (3)   The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment in so
far as possible.
      (4)   Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipes
and fittings.
   (G)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by drains shall be
lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. No
water operated sewage ejector shall be used.
   (H)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Inspector. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the Inspector or his or her representative.
   (I)   (1)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and
watertight.
      (2)   Cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and
filled with molten lead, Federal Specifications QQ-L-156, not less than 1 inch
deep.
      (3)   Lead shall be run in 1 pouring and caulked tight.
      (4)   No paint, varnish or other coatings shall be permitted on the
jointing material until after the joint has been tested and approved.
   (J)   All joints unvitrified clay pipe or between the pipe and metals shall
be made with approved hot-poured jointing material or cement mortar as
specified below.
   (K)   (1)   Material for hot-poured joints shall not soften sufficiently to
destroy the effectiveness of the joint when subjected to a temperature of
160°F, nor be soluble in any of the wastes carried by the drainage system.
      (2)   The joint shall first be caulked tight with jute, hemp or similar
approved material.
   (L)   (1)   Cement joints shall be made by packing a closely twisted jute or
oakum gasket, of suitable size, to fill partly the annual space between the
pipes.
      (2)   The remaining space shall be filled and firmly compacted with
mortar sand.
      (3)   The material shall be mixed dry; sufficient water shall be added to
make the mixture workable.
      (4)   Mortar which has begun to set shall not be used or re-tempered.
      (5)   Lime putty of hydrated lime may be substituted to the extent of not
more than 25 hydrated lime may be substituted to the extent of not more than
25% of the volume of the Portland cement that may be added.
   (M)   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only by approval of
the Inspector.
   (N)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
be made at the “Y” branch, if the branch is available at a suitable location.
      (2)   If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less and no
properly located “Y” branch is available, the owner shall at his or her expense
install a “Y” branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the
Inspector.
      (3)   Where the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and
no properly located “Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be cut in the
public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream
direction at an angle of about 45 degrees.
      (4)   A 45-degree ell may be used to make the connection with the spigot
end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer.
      (5)   The invest of the building sewer at the point of connection shall
be at the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer.
      (6)   A smooth neat joint shall be made, and the connection made secure
and water tight by encasement in concrete.
      (7)   Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved
by the Inspector.
   (O)   (1)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard.
      (2)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (P)   (1)   Connection of downspouts, drains and the like. No person shall
hereafter connect or reconnect roof downspouts, footing drains, areaway drains,
driveways, parking lots or other sources or surface, runoff or groundwater, to
a building (or house) lateral sewer or building (or house) drain which is in
turn connected directly or indirectly to the sewerage system.
      (2)   Inspection; supervision of connection.
         (a)   The applicant for the building (or house) lateral sewer permit
shall notify the Council or its designated representative when a building (or
house) lateral sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the sewerage
system.
         (b)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
inspector or his or her representative using materials and techniques
conforming to the requirements of the Council.
         (c)   The applicant shall give notice before the burial or covering of
the lateral sewer and shall not cover or bury the sewer until the inspection is
completed and the connection approved.
      (3)   Tap charges and other requirements for connection to public sewer.
         (a)   No owner or occupant of any real property shall tap or drain
either directly or indirectly into any public sewer until a sewer tap permit
has been obtained and until he or she has satisfied his or her obligation to
pay all assessments, reimbursements or pro rata shares of sewer extension costs
laid against that property for public sewers installed to serve it.
         (b)   A tap permit given in error or sewerage service charges billed
to a property in error shall not operate to nullify any obligation that has
been duly recorded.
         (c)   The Town Council shall have the authority to require an owner of
real property to disconnect from a building sewer which drains into a sanitary
sewer any downspouts, yard drains or other drains which carry the runoff of
natural precipitation. Property owners shall have 30 days after notice to
comply with any requirements.
         (d)   The Town Council shall not authorize any tap permit which will
cause excess flow, BOD and/or suspended solid loading of the wastewater
treatment plant, force mains, lift stations or sewers.
(1996 Code, § 9-30) (Ord. 2007-08, passed 7-17-2007) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24 EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   A person shall not directly or indirectly make any connections with or
openings into the sewerage system for the purpose of serving any areas outside
the corporate boundaries of the town without first securing a specific
resolution of the Council describing the real estate and property to be served
and authorizing the connection.
(1996 Code, § 9-31) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.25 CONNECTIONS TO SYSTEM BY CERTAIN OUT-OF-TOWN PROPERTIES.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
52.24, the Town Council shall have the authority to permit a property located
outside the corporate limits of the town to connect to an existing sewer which
is part of the town's sewerage system, provided the property owner or occupant
has complied with the conditions set out in §
52.23(P)(3).
(1996 Code, § 9-32)
§ 52.26 PROHIBITION OF DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the Town of
Fremont or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sewage or other
polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-33) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 RIGHT TO PROHIBIT NEW CONNECTIONS.
   The town shall have the right to prohibit new connections when the excess
capacity of the sewerage system is deemed insufficient by the Council to
accommodate the expected flow, BOD and/or suspended solids loading from the
prospective sewer user.
(1996 Code, § 9-34)
CHARGES, SURCHARGES AND SERVICE FEES
§ 52.40 PERSONS SUBJECT TO FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Charges collected. For the use and service rendered by the sewerage
works, sewer charges shall be collected from the person who owns each and every
parcel of real estate that is connected directly or indirectly to the town's
sewerage system or otherwise discharges wastewater either directly or
indirectly into the sewerage system of the town, which sewer charges shall be
payable as provided in this division.
   (B)   Surveillance and sampling costs.
      (1)   The Town of Fremont, Indiana shall perform all activities as may be
required in the discretion of the Wastewater Superintendent, to carry out
surveillance and sampling including inspection and monitoring procedures
necessary to so determine, independent of information supplied by users,
compliance or non-compliance with the admissibility standards set forth in §§
50.31 through
50.33.
      (2)   The surveillance period will normally be for a period of 7
consecutive days, but can be of a longer or shorter duration at the discretion
of the Council or Superintendent.
   (C)   Liability for costs.
      (1)   The person or entity requiring the services as outlined in division
(B) above in the discretion of the Wastewater Superintendent, shall be liable
for the actual costs of the surveillance, sampling, inspection and monitoring.
      (2)   Costs will include labor and materials and other costs associated
with providing the services.
      (3)   Costs shall be paid within 15 days of receipt of the bill for the
services and after that will accrue interest at a rate of 18% per annum.
      (4)   A lien against the user’s property will be sought for unpaid
charges.
      (5)   Issuance of a lien shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(1996 Code, § 9-54) (Am. Ord. 2001-09, passed 1-14-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.41 EFFECTIVE DATE; EXTENSION TO ADDITIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The sewer charges fixed by this subchapter shall become effective at
the time the user first discharges to the sewerage system.
   (B)   These sewer charges shall be extended to and cover any additional
premises thereafter served, without the necessity of any hearing or notice.
(1996 Code, § 9-55)
§ 52.42 RATE BASIS.
   The sewer flow charges shall be based on the quantity of water measured by
the water meter used on or in the premises subject to sewer charges, except as
otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-56)
§ 52.43 SCHEDULE OF METER READING.
   Water meters shall be read once each month, or at the option of the town at
other intervals.
(1996 Code, § 9-57)
§ 52.44 PROCEDURE; WATER OBTAINED FROM OTHER SOURCES.
   (A)   In the event a user obtains water partially or wholly from sources
other than the town waterworks, the total water used must be measured or
determined as provided in §§
50.03,
50.27 or by other reasonable means as the Council may direct.
   (B)   In the case of single-family household having a private well but no
town water supply the sewer flow charge shall be for 5,000 gallons per month,
unless a meter is installed on the well at the request of either the user or
the town, in which case the cost of installation will be paid for by the user
and the meter will be provided by the town.
   (C)   The installation of any meter shall be approved by the town.
(1996 Code, § 9-58) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.45 WHEN SINGLE METER SERVES MORE THAN ONE LOT OR BUILDING.
   In the event 2 or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings
discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town's sanitary
sewer system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and the
quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each case, for
billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for each user
and the minimum sewer charge and the monthly metered charge per 1,000 gallons
shall apply to each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate
or buildings served through the single water meter.
(1996 Code, § 9-59)
§ 52.46 PROCEDURE; SINGLE WATER METER SERVES MORE THAN ONE DWELLING UNIT.
   (A)   In the event 2 or more dwelling units such as trailers, apartments or
housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the
town's sanitary sewer system either directly or indirectly, are users of water
and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in that
case billing shall be for a single service in the manner set out elsewhere
herein.
   (B)   In the case of trailer parks, the number of dwelling units shall be
computed and interpreted as the total number of trailers located and installed
in the park plus any other dwelling units served through the meter.
   (C)   A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room or rooms or any other
space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
(1996 Code, § 9-60)
§ 52.47 PORTION OF WATER NOT ENTERING SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Where a significant portion of the metered water does not and
cannot enter the sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and where the
quantity of water entering the premises averages more than 20,000 gallons per
month, the person having charge of the property may request permission from the
town to install at his or her own expenses either an approved meter or meters
to determine the quantity of water that cannot enter the sewerage system or an
approved sewage-measuring device or devices to determine the volume of sewage
that actually enters the sewerage system.
      (2)   Facilities used to accomplish this shall be maintained in a
serviceable condition by the user at his or her expense.
      (3)   When appropriate, the town reserves the right to determine whatever
other means and methods is may find practicable the percentage of the property
metered water that enters the sewerage system.
      (4)   In any case the user charge shall be applied to the quantity of
water that can or actually does enter the public sewers.
   (B)   Seasonal residential rates.
      (1)   (a)   The sewage service for residential users in the town which
are not separately measured from their water flow meters for the usage periods
of April 15 to May 15, billable on June l, May 15 to June 15 billable on July
1, June 15 to July 15, billable on August 1, and July 15 to August 15, billable
on September l of each year, subject to the conditions set forth in this below.
         (b)   Divisions (2) through (5) are to be based upon the average water
usage of the immediately preceding months of December, January, February, and
March, subject to a 6,000 gallon minimum monthly usage. If the actual water
consumption during the usage periods is less than 6,000 gallons per month, the
actual reading will be used.
      (2)   In order to qualify for the division (1) usage rate, the user must
file a 1 time only application for the summer sewage rates. In order to make
application, the Clerk-Treasurer's office will establish a form that can be
filled out as water and sewer service is established.
      (3)   The above rates shall apply solely to single family residents which
do not include any commercial home occupation which uses water for commercial
purposes.
      (4)   The Council further reserves the right to deny the alternative rate
to any user who is abusive with respect to water or sewer consumption.
      (5)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to establish rules, forms,
and regulations to implement the terms of this section.
(1996 Code, § 9-61) (Am. Ord. 2001-15, passed 1-14-2002; Am. Ord. 2007-11,
passed 9-10-2007)
§ 52.48 METERING OF SEWAGE; BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Metering of sewage.
      (1)   The town may require a user to install and maintain at his or her
own expense an approved device to measure directly the volumes of wastes
discharged to the sewerage system if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered-water consumption records.
      (2)   Any nonresidential user whose monthly water consumption is 2,000
gallons or more shall install a meter.
      (3)   The town shall inspect and approve installations and no service,
once installed, shall be removed without the town's approval.
(1996 Code, § 9-62)
   (B)   Billing procedure generally.
      (1)   Sewer billings and invoices shall be rendered and collected
approximately monthly.
      (2)   The Council shall make and enforce by-laws and regulations as may
be deemed necessary for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of
the sewer charges prescribed by this section.
      (3)   Major contributors with a flow in excess of 40,000 gallons per
average workday shall have billing determined on the basis of wastewater
discharged as monitored per §
50.26, with the following exception:
         (a)   At its option, the town may accept monitoring data and
information from a major contributor to substantiate billing determination on a
more frequent basis than as established in §
50.26;
         (b)   This allowance, however, does not exempt the major contributor
from the surveillance survey fee set by the town to offset the costs of
monitoring performed by the town; and
         (c)   In the event there is a difference in analytical results that is
not explainable by normal variation in the testing procedure, the user may,
within 30 days of billing, appeal to the Council.
(1996 Code, § 9-63)
§ 52.49 TENANTS MAY BE BILLED; EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.
   (A)   The sewer charges may be billed to the tenants occupying the premises
served, unless otherwise instructed in writing by the person who owns the
premises.
   (B)   The billings shall in no way relieve the owner of liability in the
event payment is not made as herein required.
   (C)   The owners of the premises served, which are occupied by tenants,
shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for the
purpose of determining whether the sewer charges have been paid by the tenants;
provided that the examination shall be made at the office at which the records
are kept and during the hours that the office is open for business.
(1996 Code, § 9-64)
§ 52.50 LIABILITY OF TOWN FOR CHARGES.
   For the service rendered to any department or agency of the town, except the
Sewer Department, the town shall be subject to the sewer charges provided
herein.
(1996 Code, § 9-65)
§ 52.51 SURCHARGE; BASED ON FLOW AND CONCENTRATION; RATES.
   (A)   (1)   All wastewater discharged by major contributors shall meet the
admissibility standards in §§
50.25 through
50.36, by pretreatment if necessary, as determined by the Council. Wastewater
beyond the limits of admissibility set forth in §
50.33 may be accepted and surcharged in accordance with the schedule in
division (B) below.
      (2)   Surcharges shall be based on actual quantities discharged for
treatment as determined from measured concentration and flow. Surcharge rates
for wastewater characteristics not provided for herein may be set at the
reasonable discretion of the Council, taking into account all of the Sewer
Department's significant cost factors, relating to treatment, handling and
disposal.
(1996 Code, § 9-66)
   (B)   The rate of surcharge, in addition to volumetric charges, for the
following constituents shall be as follows:
      (1)   For biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) in excess of 250 milligrams per
liter: 13.5 cents per pound;
      (2)   For chemical oxygen demand (COD) where BOD cannot be determined in
excess of 500 milligrams per liter: 13.5 cents per pound; and
      (3)   For suspended solids in excess of 250 milligrams per liter: 18.3
cents per pound.
(1996 Code, § 9-67) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.52 SEWER CHARGE CLASSES.
   (A)   All users of the system shall pay a bill calculated on rates and
charges that are based on 1 of 3 sewage charge classes.
   (B)   These classes are defined as follows.
      (1)   Class 1. Class 1 rates and charges shall be billed to all
residential users. Residential users are defined in §
52.01.
      (2)   Class 2. Class 2 rates and charges shall be billed to all non-
residential users that are not being billed Class 3 rates and charges.
      (3)   Class 3.
         (a)   Class 3 rates and charges shall be applied to the readings of
any individual meter (or at the discretion of the Town Council any combination
of individual meters that share a common owner) where water consumption exceeds
the level of 1,000,000 gallons per month.
         (b)   If sewage flows are being measured instead of water consumption,
a method of imputing the water consumption that created the sewage flows shall
be devised by the Town Manager.
         (c)   This method shall then be used to determine if the user is to be
billed Class 3 rates and charges.
         (d)   Class 3 rates and charges will commence to be billed in any
month that consumption exceeds the aforementioned level and will continue to be
billed in all subsequent months.
   (C)   (1)   If a user is billed Class 3 rates and charges and has not
exceeded the consumption level set out in Class 3 above, for 3 consecutive
months, the user may petition the Town Council for resumption of Class 2
billing status.
      (2)   The Town Council shall decide, based upon its judgement and
experience, whether to grant or deny the petition.
      (3)   A user may not petition the Town Council for resumption of Class 2
billing status any more frequently than once every 3 months.
(1996 Code, § 9-68)
§ 52.53 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Charges for sewerage service levied pursuant to this subchapter shall
be due and payable on or before the due dates shown on the bills.
   (B)   Any service charge not paid by the due date (approximately 10 days
after the bill is rendered) shall be considered delinquent.
   (C)   Delinquent sewage charges together with costs and other expenses of
collection may be collected by any lawful remedy, including, where applicable,
the placing of the foreclosure of liens on real estate as provided by state
law.
   (D)   In that case, the delinquent service charges, together with a
mandatory penalty of 10%, shall be placed on the tax duplicate and be collected
in the same manner as regular taxes and assessments are collected.
(1996 Code, § 9-70)
§ 52.54 COLLECTION THROUGH COURT ACTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the foregoing remedies, the town shall have the right
to bring a civil action to recover any delinquent charges together with a
penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney's fee.
   (B)   It shall also have the right, as provided by the statutes of the State
of Indiana, to foreclose any lien established under the provisions of §
52.53 above, with recovery of the charge, a penalty of 10% and a reasonable
attorney's fee.
(1996 Code, § 9-71)
§ 52.55 FIRST BILLING.
   (A)   The sewer charges and surcharges fixed in this subchapter shall be
extended to and cover any additional premises hereafter served without the need
for any hearing or notice.
   (B)   If the first billing to a new customer covers a period other than a
full billing month, then the sewer charges for the billing shall be in keeping
with standard practice in the water utility.
   (C)   Subsequent sewerage service billings shall be for periods coinciding
with the billing periods for water service.
   (D)   If sewer charges and/or surcharges are changed, the first billing
after the change may also be for a period other than a full billing month in
order to keep the sewerage billing periods coincident with the water billing
periods.
(1996 Code, § 9-72)
§ 52.56 NOTIFICATION.
   Each user shall be notified annually, in conjunction with a regular bill of
the user charge rate and that portion of the sewer charges which is
attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(1996 Code, § 9-73)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
APPENDIX A: SEWAGE CHARGES.
For the use and the service rendered by the sewerage works, volumetric sewer
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows:
   (A)   Metered users.
Inside Town Limits User Charge Debt Service Charge Total Monthly Sewer Charge
Inside Town Limits       User Charge Debt Service Charge Total Monthly Sewer
                                                         Charge
Class 1
Metered charge per 1,000 $4.49       $3.77               $8.26
gallons
Minimum charge           $13.50      $11.32              $24.82
Class 2
Metered charge per 1,000 $4.49       $2.69               $7.18
gallons
Minimum charge           $27.01      $16.12              $43.13
Class 3
Metered charge per 1,000 $4.49       $2.05               $6.54
gallons
Minimum charge           $108.05     $49.17              $157.22
 
Outside Town Limits User Charge Debt Service Charge Total Monthly Sewer Charge
Outside Town Limits      User Charge Debt Service Charge Total Monthly Sewer
                                                         Charge
Class 1
Metered charge per 1,000 $6.73       $5.65               $12.38
gallons
Minimum charge           $20.25      $16.98              $37.23
Class 2
Metered charge per 1,000 $6.73       $4.03               $10.76
gallons
Minimum charge           $40.51      $24.18              $64.69
Class 3
Metered charge per 1,000 $6.73       $3.07               $9.80
gallons
Minimum charge           $162.07     $73.75              $235.82
 
   (B)   Unmetered users.
 
Inside Town Limits User Charge Debt Service Charge Total Monthly Flat Sewer
                                                   Charge
Class 1            $22.52      $18.85              $41.37
Class 2            $153.07     $91.35              $244.42
Class 3            $5,642.06   $2,566.79           $8,208.85
 
 
Outside Town Limits User Charge Debt Service Charge Total Monthly Flat Sewer
                                                    Charge
Class 1             $33.78      $28.27              $62.05
Class 2             $229.60     $137.02             $366.62
Class 3             $8,463.09   $3,850.18           $12,313.27
 
   (C)   Bulk dumping.
 
Bulk Dumping Charge
                  User Charge Debt Service Charge Total Monthly Flat Sewer
                                                  Charge
Charge per gallon $0.052      $0.043              $0.095
*The bulk dumping charge shall apply to a licensed commercial or industrial
waste hauler for which the town accepts wastewater pursuant to Section 4.6
of Ordinance 81-217.
 
   (D)   The Town Council finds that the costs of furnishing services to users
located outside, including capital expenditures to extend the sewage treatment
services beyond the town limits, is higher than the costs of furnishing
services to users located within the town limits. Users of the sewage works
located outside the corporate boundaries of the town will pay 50% higher rates
and charges than those users located within the corporate boundaries of the
town.
   (E)   The flat monthly sewer rate shall be charged to any residential or
non-residential customer who is not a metered water user or does not have an
approved meter attached to their service which would provide readings of either
water consumption or sewage flows. Customers who are charged the flat monthly
rate may install, at customer's expense, an approved meter for purposes of
recording water consumption and/or sewage flow. Non-residential customers who
are being charged the flat rate may, at the Town Council's discretion, be
required to install an approved meter. Upon installation of an approved meter,
a customer's monthly sewage bill shall be calculated according to the above
metered schedule of rates and charges.
(1996 Code, § 9-69) (Am. Ord. 2006-21, passed 11-21-2006; Am. Ord. 2012-01,
passed 1-17-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-07, passed 8-21-2012; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed
3-20-2017)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICES
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Responsibility of owner, occupant, or lessee of residence
   
53.03   Contracts
   
53.04   Number of collections; collection vehicles
   
53.05   Disposal of garbage
   
53.06   Container interference prohibited
   
53.07   Garbage in buildings
   
53.08   Collections by contractor only
   
53.09   Report of violations
   
53.10   Throwing or depositing of trash/refuse prohibited
   
53.11   Residences affected
   
53.12   Fee provisions
   
53.13   Fee amounts
   
53.14   Billing
   
53.15   Remedies
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR. Any one or more persons, firms, or corporations having a
contractual relationship with the town for the collection and disposition of
garbage, or the employees or officials of the town collection and disposing of
garbage in the event a contact is not let for that work.
   GARBAGE.
      (1)   Any table matter that results in the preparation and use of meat,
fish, fowl, fruit, or vegetable matter; tin cans; glass cans; bottles; and
crockery which has been used as food or beverage holders;
      (2)   Any material resulting from ordinary household operations,
including such items as cans, glass, bottles, paper, magazines, newsprint,
boxes, rags, and small cartons; and
      (3)   Excluded from GARBAGE, and the related term REFUSE, are such items
as large boxes; furniture; appliances; springs; articles too large for packer-
type trucks; refrigerants; medications; tires; batteries; oil-based paints;
antifreeze; car fluids; fertilizer; aerosol cans; fire extinguishers;
radioactive materials; explosives; chemicals; hot ashes; televisions; phone
equipment; computer equipment; stereo equipment; all types of debris resulting
from repairing or remodeling any building such as dirt, wood, plaster, roofing,
pipes, cement blocks, broken concrete or stones; and, all lawn cuttings,
leaves, shrubbery, tree trimmings, dead animals, and animal excrement.
   OWNER. Any person, trust, firm, corporation, or association owning,
occupying, using, or inhabiting any premises for residence, business, or other
purposes within the corporate boundaries of the town.
   RESIDENCE. A single-family dwelling or a multi-family dwelling located
within the corporate boundaries of the town.
   TOWN. The Town of Fremont, Indiana.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-17-2019; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-15-2022)
§ 53.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT, OR LESSEE OF RESIDENCE.
   The owner occupant, or lessee of any residence in the Town of Fremont shall
cause to be removed from said premises all garbage and refuse, and shall keep
said premises free and clear of any accumulation of garbage and refuse at all
times.
(Ord. 2014-08, passed - -2014; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-15-2022)
§ 53.03 CONTRACTS.
   The town may contract for the collection of garbage and refuse pursuant to
this chapter. The person or firm contracting to provide the service of
collecting and disposing of garbage and refuse shall give a good and sufficient
bond to the town in the sum equal to the yearly revenue under the contract for
satisfactory performance of duty or as otherwise required. The contractor shall
procure and keep in force such liability insurance as the Town Council may
require. The contractor shall be directly responsible to the Town Council,
whose duty shall be to see that the collection and disposal of garbage and
refuse is carried out according to the agreement between the contractor and the
town.
(1996 Code, § 6-56) (Ord. 2014-08, passed - - 2014; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-
15-2022) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 53.04 NUMBER OF COLLECTIONS; COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   (A)   The town, or its duly authorized agent, shall collect all garbage and
refuse once each week from residences within the town, providing such garbage
and refuse is deposited in proper containers and placed on the street curb or
at the edge of an all-weather alley or in a location and at a time as
designated by the town, or its collecting agency, unless otherwise approved by
the Town Council. Said collection shall be scheduled between 6:00 a.m. local
time and 7:00 p.m. local time, on any single day of collection. All owners,
occupants, and lessees of any premises are thus required to have garbage and
refuse deposited in proper containers and placed at proper locations as
provided herein in a timely manner so that collection of said garbage and
refuse can occur between said times.
   (B)   Garbage and refuse must not exceed a total of 90 gallons per week per
approved container, and must be placed in a heavy duty roll-out cart of no more
than 90 gallon capacity, said cart to be made available by the town or its
agent. A residence may request the town or its agent, upon written request to
the town, to provide extra containers. All such containers shall be kept in a
sanitary condition. Garbage and refuse shall be carefully drained and wrapped
before depositing in approved containers, and other articles of unwieldy size
or shape will only be acceptable for collection if they are broken or cut down
to size suitable for handling and transporting. The Town Council shall have
authority to prescribe the maximum size and weight thereof from time to time
and have final authority for deciding if garbage is properly prepared. Any such
container shall be sufficiently closed to eliminate the spillage of garbage and
refuse.
(1996 Code, § 6-58) (Ord. 2014-08, passed - - 2014; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-
15-2022) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 53.05 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   Garbage shall be removed from and disposed of beyond the corporate
limits of the town, at a location or locations as may be arranged for or
provided by the contractor, and in compliance with all applicable laws and
regulations.
   (B)   The place to which the garbage is removed or at which it is disposed
of even though outside the corporate limits of the town, shall not be closer
than 1,000 feet to the nearest occupied premises within the corporate limits.
(1996 Code, § 6-59) (Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-15-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 CONTAINER INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No persons, except authorized collectors of garbage, shall remove, damage,
meddle, or otherwise interfere with the garbage container of another, nor use
the same without permission of the owner thereof.
(Ord. 2014-08, passed - -2014; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-15-2022) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.07 GARBAGE IN BUILDINGS.
   No owner shall allow or cause any garbage or refuse to accumulate in the
basement or upon any floor of any house, building, or other structure, whether
inhabited or not, for more than 48 hours, unless said garbage or refuse is
deposited or contained in an approved container as herein provided.
(1996 Code, § 6-61) (Ord. 2014-08, passed - - 2014; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-
15-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.08 COLLECTIONS BY CONTRACTOR ONLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of collecting
garbage in the Town of Fremont, Indiana, except a person, firm or corporation
engaging in a business under contract with the town pursuant to the provisions
of this section, or an official or employee of the town in the event a contract
for the work is not entered into; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall prevent or prohibit any person from collecting his or her own
garbage on his or her own premises and removing the same therefrom.
(1996 Code, § 6-62) (Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-15-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.09 REPORT OF VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of any collector of garbage to report any and all
violations of this chapter to either the Clerk-Treasurer, or any member of the
Town Council thereof in writing, and thereupon the town officials shall cause
the report to be investigated and to make complaint for violation of this
chapter in any and all proper cases.
(1996 Code, § 6-63) (Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-15-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.10 THROWING OR DEPOSITING OF TRASH/REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or company, to throw, deposit or
suffer to throw or deposit or permit any rubbish, trash, garbage, refuse or any
other unwholesome material into or upon any public place or private place
except as provided by this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 6-65) (Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-15-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.11 RESIDENCES AFFECTED.
   (A)   Each residence is to receive garbage collection services to be
provided by the contractor awarded the garbage collection contract for the Town
of Fremont which collection services are to be subject to the terms and
conditions of the contract.
   (B)   Whenever there is a question as to whether this chapter applies, the
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Fremont is to make a determination which may be
appealed in writing by a party in interest to the Town Council.
(1996 Code, § 6-66) (Ord. 2014-08, passed - - 2014; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-
15-2022)
§ 53.12 FEE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Findings. The Town Council finds that just and equitable garbage
collection services fees are those fees that provide sufficient revenue to pay
all expenses incident to the operation of administering a third-party garbage
collection service including, but not limited to, legal expenses, equipment,
transportation, town government garbage collection service, bookkeeping,
auditing, environmental and aesthetic maintenance, and customer relations. The
Town Council further finds that the fees established in this chapter are just
and equitable, as described herein.
   (B)   Service fee. The utility billing clerk shall assess a service fee for
garbage collection services in the amount provided in §
53.13 of this chapter ("Fee Amounts") to defray the cost charged to the town by
the contractor pursuant to a prior competitive bidding process.
   (C)   Administration fee. The utility billing clerk shall assess an
administration fee in the amount provided in §
53.13 of this chapter ("Fee Amounts") to help cover the administration costs
relating to garbage collection services.
   (D)   Late payment fee. The utility billing clerk shall assess a late
payment fee equal to 10% of the combined service fee and administration fee on
any utility bill that remains unpaid 30 days after having become due.
   (E)   Collection charges. The utility billing clerk shall assess collection
charges, including attorney and paralegal fees, to the utility bill, if
necessary, to ensure prompt payment.
   (F)   Costs. The utility billing clerk shall assess any garbage collection
service costs, such as for replacement containers or additional services, that
have been incurred by the town to the respective owner regarding whom the cost
is properly attributable.
   (G)   Taxes. The utility billing clerk shall assess any taxes for the above
fees and costs that are required to be imposed by law.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-15-2022)
§ 53.13 FEE AMOUNTS.
   (A)   Service fee. The service fee for garbage collection services is
$13.44.
   (B)   Administration fee. The administration fee for garbage collection
services is $0.50.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-15-2022)
§ 53.14 BILLING.
   (A)   Registration. Each residence owner shall ensure that at least one
owner of the residence has registered for garbage collection services with the
utility billing clerk. The owner(s) of record must be the same owner(s) of
record for sewer works service.
   (B)   Hold harmless. By registering for garbage collection services, each
residence owner thereby holds the town harmless from any loss, including all
penalties, fines, fees, attorney's fees, interest, and court costs, or other
loss if any, for suspension of garbage collection services pursuant to a
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Billing. The utility billing clerk shall send out a monthly bill for
garbage collection services to each residence; provided, however, that in the
case of a covered residence that is not connected to municipal water, the
utility billing clerk may opt to send the bill on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   Duty to pay. Each residence owner shall timely pay, or ensure that
another person has timely paid, the respective bill for garbage collection
services. Each owner is jointly and severally liable for its payment.
   (E)   Private contracts. Where this chapter conflicts with the terms of a
contract entered into by the Town Council, the terms of the contract control
with respect to the parties, any residence that is the subject of the contract,
and, as justice may require, to any other person at the residence. If an act
would be a violation under this chapter but is specifically permitted in a
contract entered into with the Town Council, the act is instead not a
violation.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-15-2022)
§ 53.15 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Service suspension. In addition to any late payment fees and
collection costs assessed by the town, if the Town Manager (or if generally
unavailable, the Clerk-Treasurer) has reasonable suspicion to believe that a
material violation of this chapter has occurred, he or she may authorize and/or
direct the contractor to confiscate the respective residence container and/or
to not collect the garbage at that residence until the Town Manager receives
satisfactory assurances that the circumstances leading to the violation have
been abated.
   (B)   Extraneous claims barred. No owner shall have recourse against the
town, the Town Council, the Town Manager, the Clerk-Treasurer, the contractor,
or their respective agents to the extent the contractor has not collected
garbage from a residence because the container was not timely placed curbside,
because the owner violated this chapter or other applicable law or rules, or
because the Town Manager or Clerk-Treasurer directed the contractor not to
collect the garbage from the unit.
   (C)   Continuing liability. If the contractor does not collect the garbage
of an owner pursuant to a violation of this chapter, the owner remains liable
for any public nuisance created by the uncollected garbage and remains liable
for payment of the utility bill.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-15-2022)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   TRUCK ROUTE REGULATIONS
   
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Off-street vehicle regulations
   
70.02   Jake-braking prohibited
   
70.03   Passenger restraint in motor vehicles
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 OFF-STREET VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All use and operation of off-road vehicles and snowmobiles at Fremont
Recreational Park is prohibited.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLES. Any motor driven vehicle capable of cross country
travel, without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water,
snow, ice, marsh, swampland or other natural terrain. They include, but are not
limited to, a multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle, amphibious
machine, ground effect air cushion vehicle or other means of transportation
deriving motor power from a source other than muscle or wind.
(1996 Code, § 8-45)
§ 70.02 JAKE-BRAKING PROHIBITED.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof it shall be illegal for the
drivers of semi-tractors to use the procedure known as Jake-braking within the
town limits of Fremont.
(1996 Code, § 8-48)
§ 70.03 PASSENGER RESTRAINT IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For purposes of this section the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings ascribed them respectively:
      CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.  A device that is manufactured for the
purposes of protecting children from injury during a motor vehicle accident and
meets the standards prescribed in I.C. 9-13-2-23 and 49 CFR 571.213.
      PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLE. For the purposes of this chapter, shall mean a
motor vehicle designed for carrying passengers and does not include a
motorcycle, bus, or school bus, tractor, or recreational vehicle.
   (B)   Front seat passenger. All occupants of a passenger motor vehicle that
is equipped with a safety belt meeting the standards stated in the Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (49 CFR 571.208) shall have a safety belt
properly fastened about the occupant's body at all times when the vehicle is in
forward motion.
   (C)   Child restraint requirements.
      (1)   A person who operates a motor vehicle in which there is a child
less than 4 years of age shall have said child restrained by a child passenger
restraint system, however, if it is reasonably determined that the child will
not fit in a child restraint system then said child shall be properly fastened
and restrained by a safety belt.
      (2)   A person who operates a passenger motor vehicle that is equipped
with a safety belt meeting the requirements stated in the Federal Motor Vehicle
Safety Standard Number 208 (49 CFR 571.208) shall have every child at least 4
years of age but less than 12 years of age properly fastened and restrained by
a child passenger restraint system or a safety belt.
   (D)   Vehicle stop. A vehicle may be stopped by the Police Department to
determine compliance with this section. However, a vehicle, the contents of the
vehicle, the driver of the vehicle, or a passenger in a vehicle may not be
inspected, searched, or detained solely because of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
70.01 shall be subject to the fine of $10 to $100 for each violation thereof.
(1996 Code, § 8-45)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
70.02 shall be fined a sum not to exceed $100.
(1996 Code, § 8-48)
   (D)   Each violation of §
70.03 shall, in addition to any other penalty, subject the operator thereof
said vehicle to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000 for each
violation by each occupant in said vehicle.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 5-12-2008)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Specific regulations
   
71.03   Three-way stop created
   
71.04   General speed limit
   
71.05   Roller skates and other recreation
   
71.06   Golf carts
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of state law regulating traffic on highways, I.C. 9-13-2-
1 et seq. shall govern all provisions of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 8-1)
§ 71.02 SPECIFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All drivers must keep to the right side of 2-way streets.
   (B)   It is unlawful for vehicles, either horse or motor driven to enter the
pavement before coming to a complete stop.
   (C)   It is unlawful for vehicles to enter or turn on the public square of
the town before coming to a complete stop.
   (D)   It is unlawful for vehicles to make a complete turn on the public
square.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to enforce this section.
(1996 Code, § 8-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 THREE-WAY STOP CREATED.
   (A)   Upon an engineering and traffic investigation, the Town Council has
determined that certain stop signs shall be erected at specific entrances.
   (B)   The town employees directed by the Council shall erect stop signs as
indicated: The intersection of Jefferson Street and North Street in the Town of
Fremont is established as a 3-way stop.
   (C)   The stop signs erected shall conform to the manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices for roads and streets as provided under I.C. 9-21-2 et seq.,
I.C. 9-21-3 et seq., and I.C. 9-21-4 et seq.
   (D)   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to any stop sign
before entering intersections, except when directed to proceed by a police
officer.
   (E)   Penalties for violation of this section shall be as set forth in I.C.
9-21-4-19 and that the provisions thereof are enacted by reference as if fully
set out herein.
(1996 Code, § 8-6)
§ 71.04 GENERAL SPEED LIMIT.
   Speed shall be regulated on all streets in the Town of Fremont, Indiana, at
30 mph unless otherwise posted.
(1996 Code, § 8-20) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 ROLLER SKATES AND OTHER RECREATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOWNTOWN CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. The area encompassing the real
property located adjacent to Toledo Street from the centerline of that certain
roadway commonly known as Coffin Street, thence east to the centerline of that
certain roadway commonly known as Mill Street in the Town of Fremont, Indiana.
      RECKLESS or HAZARDOUS OPERATION.
         (a)   The operation of a skateboard or other wheeling or sliding
device in a manner so that the wheels of a wheeling device leave the ground or
that the skateboard or sliding device is separated from the ground at the same
time (i.e. airborne).
         (b)   It is further defined to mean the use of disability ramps,
steps, walls, retention walls, doors, handrails, planters, curb or gutter
edges, barriers and barricades, benches, picnic tables, sculptures, stages,
platforms, playground equipment or other device or structure which is not
intended for pedestrian or vehicular traffic, jumping or stepping on or off the
devices or structures using wheeled equipment, or in a manner that is likely to
cause damage to property or to cause personal injury or failing to yield the
right of way to or otherwise interfere with pedestrian traffic.
      SKATEBOARD. A foot board mounted upon 4 or more wheels and usually
propelled by the user who sometimes stands, sits, kneels or lies upon the
device while it is in motion.
      WHEELING OR SLIDING DEVICES. Include, but are not limited to,
skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates or any other device containing
wheels which can be ridden on or otherwise utilized by an individual or
individuals in order to move about other than walking, with the exception of
human powered bicycles.
   (B)   The operation of a skateboard or other wheeling or sliding device
shall be prohibited as follows:
      (1)   In the Downtown Central Business District, the operation of
skateboards or other wheeling or sliding devices shall be prohibited at all
times;
      (2)   No person shall operate a skateboard or other wheeling or sliding
device in a reckless or hazardous manner within the corporate boundaries of the
Town of Fremont, except as specifically permitted, and only in a manner
specifically permitted, in designated town skate park areas;
      (3)   (a)   No person shall operate a skateboard or other wheeling or
sliding device upon any property where a sign or signs are posted by property
owners prohibiting that operation.
         (b)   This provision shall be interpreted to mean that if a sign is
posted prohibiting skateboarding it shall be deemed to apply to the prohibition
of all skateboard or other wheeling or sliding devices; and
      (4)   Notwithstanding the definition of skateboard or other wheeling or
sliding device, nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of a wheelchair,
a stroller or similar devices, for the purpose of helping an elderly, disabled
individual, infant or other individual needing assistance in moving from place
to place.
(Ord. 2004-18, passed 8-9-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   The following vehicles, which this section allows for, shall be
defined as follows:
      GOLF CART. As used in this section, is defined as any four-wheeled motor
vehicle originally  and specially designed and intended to transport one or
more individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on
a golf course.
      UTILITY TASK VEHICLE (UTV). As used in this section, is defined as any
off-road vehicle that: (a) has a width greater than 51 inches but not exceeding
65 inches; (b) a dry weight of at least 1,201 pounds, but not exceeding 2,000
pounds; (c) is designed for travel on at least four non-highway or off-highway
tires; (d) is designed for recreational use by one or more individuals; and (e)
is designed to be steered, driven or controlled with a steering wheel. As used
in the previous sentence, the term "steering wheel" shall not include
handlebars. The definition for UTV shall not be construed to include all-
terrain vehicles ("ATV") as currently defined in I.C. 14-8-2-5.7. No individual
shall use, operate, drive, or park an ATV on the streets, alleys, and
properties under the jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   A person may operate, drive or park ("operate") a golf cart or UTV on
the streets, alleys, and properties under the jurisdiction of the town subject
to the rules and restrictions set forth herein.
   (C)   Operators of golf carts or UTVs must have a valid driver's license and
shall obey all state, federal, and local laws, regulations, and ordinances
governing passenger motor vehicles, including but not limited to laws,
regulations, and ordinances pertaining to licensing of operators and traffic
regulations.
   (D)   Golf carts or UTVs operated during darkness from dusk to dawn, or
during inclement weather, when headlamps are necessary for motor vehicles, must
be equipped with and use headlights, taillights with brake lights, and turn
signals visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet.
   (E)   Golf carts or UTVs shall be driven as close to the right edge of the
street or alley as possible.
   (F)   No person shall operate a golf cart or UTV on a sidewalk.
   (G)   No person shall operate or permit the operation of a golf cart or UTV
without proof of financial responsibility, as further set forth in division (O)
herein, which must be made available upon request by town or state officials.
   (H)   No person shall operate a golf cart or UTV unless any and all
passengers of said golf cart or UTVs are seated in a seat attached to the golf
cart or UTV as manufactured. In no event shall a person operate a golf cart or
UTV unless the operator and all passengers are completely within the perimeter
of the golf cart or UTV.
   (I)   Any golf cart or UTV shall be equipped with a rear view mirror and
factory seating. The occupancy of the golf cart or UTV shall not exceed that
contemplated by the factory seating. No person under the age of two years shall
be allowed to ride on a golf cart or UTV and all persons under the age of ten
years must only ride in the front seat of the golf cart or UTV. The driver and
all passengers in the golf cart or UTV must be seated while it is in motion.
   (J)   No person shall operate a golf cart or UTV unless it is equipped with
and displays a triangular slow moving vehicle emblem or a red, or amber,
flashing lamp that is entirely visible from the rear of the golf cart or UTV at
all times. In addition, no person shall operate a golf cart or UTV unless it is
equipped with and displays an orange flag or pennant attached to a pole so that
the flag or pennant is at least seven feet above the surface of the street.
   (K)   No person shall operate a golf cart or UTV so that it impedes or
blocks the normal flow of traffic.
   (L)   The Town Council may exempt any use of a golf cart or UTV by a town
employee or official from the provisions of this section when it is determined
that the same is necessary to properly perform the functions of the town.
   (M)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, or permits a violation
of any provisions of this section shall pay a fine not to exceed $200. Money
collected for fines shall be deposited in the general fund. Any person, firm,
or corporation who violates, or permits a violation of any provisions of this
section commits a Class C infraction.
   (N)   No person shall operate a golf cart or UTV without valid registration
with the town. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall make forms available for the
registration of golf carts or UTV and shall collect all fees for registration.
The annual registration fee shall be $40, except that any registration which
requires the issuance of plates (typically only the initial registration) shall
instead cost $55. Each registration shall last from January 1 to December 31 of
each year but may not be prorated for portions of the year already lapsed.
   (O)   Additional registration requirements. The following steps are also
required for the registration of a golf cart or UTV with the Clerk-Treasurer:
      (1)   Prior to registration, the golf cart or UTV must have been
inspected by the Town Marshal or his or her deputy to ensure it complies with
the equipment requirements of this section.
      (2)   At the time of registration, the owner of the golf cart or UTV
shall present proof of insurance for the golf cart or UTV, which must include
coverage for property damage and personal liability coverage for injury or
damage to property of others and for personal injury to other persons with a
minimum combined single limit of $100,000. Such insurance must be maintained on
the golf cart or UTV for as long as it is operated on streets, alleys, and
properties under the jurisdiction of the Town of Fremont.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 7-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2017- 03, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §
71.02, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined for the first offense the sum of
$5, second offense $20 and third offense $50. Each violation constituting a
separate offense.
(1996 Code, § 8-2)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
71.04 shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $300.
(1996 Code, § 8-20)
      (2)   Anyone violating any provisions of the maximum speed limits
established by §
71.04 shall be guilty of a Class C Infraction.
(1996 Code, § 8-26)
   (D)   (1)   Any individual operating a skateboard or other wheeling or
sliding device in violation of any of the provisions contained in §
71.05 shall be subject to a fine of $50 per violation.
      (2)   In addition to the fine, any person found in violation of any
provision of §
71.05 may have the skateboard or other wheeling or sliding device confiscated
immediately by the Fremont Police Department or by any officer of the Fremont
Police Department acting in his or her official capacity in order to abate the
nuisance.
      (3)   The skateboard or wheeling or sliding device confiscated shall be
held for a maximum of 90 days after which it may be sold or destroyed.
      (4)   The individual who owns any confiscated skateboard or wheeling or
sliding device shall have the right to repossess the skateboard or wheeling or
sliding device upon proof of payment of any fine and other costs for which the
individual is responsible as a result of having violated the provisions set
forth in §
71.05.
      (5)   Any individual violator of this section who is under the age of 18
years of age must disclose to the police officer or other enforcing authority
the names, addresses and phone numbers of their parents or legal guardian.
(Ord. 2004-18, passed 8-9-2004)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Restricted parking of house trailers
   
72.02   Stopping, standing or parking regulations
   
72.03   Adjacent to roadways during snow accumulation
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 RESTRICTED PARKING OF HOUSE TRAILERS.
   (A)   No house trailer shall be parked within the Fire Zone of the town,
except those trailers that are held for resale by an authorized dealer may be
parked on a lot for display purposes only.
   (B)   All trailers must remain unoccupied.
(1996 Code, § 8-15) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING REGULATIONS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or the directions of a police officer or
traffic control device in any of the following places:
   (A)   Upon a road within the town which results in obstructing traffic;
   (B)   On a sidewalk;
   (C)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (D)   Within an intersection;
   (E)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (F)   On a crosswalk;
   (G)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (H)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance when properly posted;
   (I)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street; or
   (J)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
(1996 Code, § 8-17) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 ADJACENT TO ROADWAYS DURING SNOW ACCUMULATION.
   (A)   All vehicles parked upon any public roadway located within the
jurisdiction of the Town of Fremont, Indiana, shall be moved a minimum of 1
time in every 24-hour period during those periods of snow accumulation in
excess of 2 inches within any 24-hour period.
   (B)   The Fremont Police Department is hereby authorized to retain the
services of a properly licensed and qualified vehicle towing operator to remove
any vehicle found in violation of this section, at the sole cost and expense of
the owner of any like vehicle.
(Ord. 2004-01, passed 2-9-2004) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
72.02 shall be subject to a minium fine of $2 for each offense, payable to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(1996 Code, § 8-17)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
72.03 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $20 nor more than $75 for
each violation thereof. The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the
Fremont Police Department.
(Ord. 2004-01, passed 2-9-2004)
CHAPTER 73: TRUCK ROUTE REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Semi-trailers restricted
   
73.02   Commercial delivery restrictions
   
73.03   Load restrictions
   
73.04   Truck routes established
   
73.05   Definitions
   
73.06   Exceptions
   
73.07   Semi-trailer and tractor parking restrictions
   
73.08   Alternative temporary truck routes
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 SEMI-TRAILERS RESTRICTED.
   No semi-trailer is to be driven or hauled upon any public street or
thoroughfare in the Town of Fremont except as allowed herein.
(1996 Code, § 8-31)
§ 73.02 COMMERCIAL DELIVERY RESTRICTIONS.
   Any semi-trailer traveling or being hauled to make a commercial delivery at
any site in the Town of Fremont not accessible via truck routes as established
herein and meeting weight restrictions applicable to State Road 120 and County
Road 827 may travel by the shortest route available to the delivery site for
the purpose of making the delivery and returning therefrom without unreasonable
delay shall be permitted.
(1996 Code, § 8-32)
§ 73.03 LOAD RESTRICTIONS
   (A)   One loaded semi-trailer may be driven or hauled to the residence of an
operator provided:
      (1)   That the loaded weight of the trailer does not exceed 9,000 pounds;
and
      (2)   That the operator lived at the residence prior to the adoption of
this section regularly drove or hauled semi-trailers to the residence prior to
the adoption of this section, and the operator certifies by the affidavit that
the facts required by this division exists and files the same with the Town
Council within 30 days of the first publication of this section, the affidavit
is to state the legal description of the real estate upon which the residence
is located and is to be prepared in recordable form and accompanied with funds
to cover the cost of recording the same with the Steuben County Recorder.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is to cause any affidavits filed pursuant to this
division to be filed with the Steuben County Recorder.
(1996 Code, § 8-33)
§ 73.04 TRUCK ROUTES ESTABLISHED.
   The following areas are to be declared truck routes and loaded semi-trailers
meeting the weight restrictions applicable to State Road 120 are permitted
thereon:
   (A)   State Road 827;
   (B)   State Road 120;
   (C)   West Street;
   (D)   Peachey Road;
   (E)   Depot Street;
   (F)   Clear Lake/Ray Road;
   (G)   Water Street;
   (H)   Coffin Street (between Water and Pearl);
   (I)   County Road 375 East (S. Depot Street);
   (J)   Coldwater Street;
   (K)   Hardy Street (between Tillotson Street and the eastern terminus of
Hardy Street); and
   (L)   N. Wayne Street.
(1996 Code, § 8-34) (Ord. 2004-12, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 73.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL DELIVERY. A delivery to any commercial or industrial facility,
and any moving van moving residential personal furniture and property, or any
delivery of consumer goods to a residence by any person or entity other than
the owner or resident thereof, or any dump truck or delivery truck delivering
construction materials or fill to a construction site where the facility or
site is not conveniently accessible from a truck route, or any garbage or
refuse truck collecting garbage or refuse from a set-out site within the town,
or any trailer or tractor brought to a garage for repair.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Any semi-trailer or any dumptruck and does not require that
the trailer be full of cargo.
(1996 Code, § 8-35)
§ 73.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   The restrictions set forth herein shall not apply to any snow plow, fire
truck, municipally or governmentally owned vehicle, or to any vehicle owned by
any school district, or any emergency vehicle.
(1996 Code, § 8-36)
§ 73.07 SEMI-TRAILER AND TRACTOR PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No semi-trailer is to be parked on any paved portion of any street or
highway or any paved portion of any street or highway right-of-way within the
municipality for more than 2 hours nor is any semi-trailer to be parked in any
manner so as to interfere with street cleaning, repairs or snow removal.
   (B)   Any semi-trailer parked on any unpaved portion of a street right-of-
way is parked at owner’s risk including risk of being plowed in with snow
during snow removal by municipality.
   (C)   One semi-tractor may be parked at the residence of the operator
provided that the tractor is not left running for more than 45 minutes at any 1
time or for more than 45 minutes during any 8-hour period.
(1996 Code, § 8-37)
§ 73.08 ALTERNATIVE TEMPORARY TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal may by order designate alternative temporary truck
routes for parades, street fairs and other special events as the Marshal deems
appropriate.
   (B)   Tractors and trailers escorted to the court by law enforcement
officers to attend initial town hearings or tractors and trailers brought to
the court in compliance with a court order are permitted to leave the truck
routes in order to travel to and from the site of the court by the most direct
route.
(1996 Code, § 8-38)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop streets
   
II.   Yield streets
   
III.   Speed limits
   
IV.   U-turns
   
V.   Truck routes established
SCHEDULE I. STOP STREETS.
   (A)   Stop streets. The following intersections in the town are designated
as stop intersections, and clearly marked stop signs shall be placed at the
indicated entrances to the intersection. Every driver of a vehicle shall stop
at a stop sign at such intersection before entering such intersection except
when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control signal.
Street Stop Before Entering
Street             Stop Before Entering
Abbott Street      State Road 120
Alan Drive         Deborah Drive
Albion Street      Bell Street
Albion Street      Broad Street
Albion Street      Mill Street
Albion Street      Tillotson Street
Baum Street        Spring Street
Bell Street        Michael Street
Bell Street        North Street
Bell Street        Spring Street
Bell Street        State Road 120
Charles Drive      North Wayne Street
Coffin Street      North Street
Coffin Street      Pearl Street
Coffin Street      State Road 120
Coffin Street      Water Street
Coldwater Street   State Road 120
Cora Lane          Coldwater Street
Cora Lane          Elmer Drive
Deborah Street     State Road 120
Depot Street       Reed Road
Eagle Drive        State Road 120
Elmer Drive        Cora Lane
Elmer Drive        Follett Drive
Elmer Drive        Hope Drive
Evans Drive        Wayne Street
Follett Lane       Coldwater Street
Hardy Street       Broad Street
Hardy Street       Tillotson Street
Michael Street     Sierer Street
Michael Street     Wayne Street
Mill Street        Hardy Street
Mill Street        North Street
Mill Street        State Road 120
Nicolas Trail      Elmer Drive
Nicolas Trail      Rachel Lane
North Street       Coffin Street
North Street       Coldwater Street
North Street       Sierer Street
North Street       Washington Street
North Street       Wayne Street
Pearl Street       Coffin Street
Pleasant Street    North Street
Pleasant Street    Spring Street
Pleasant Street    State Road 120
Prairie Lane       Charles Drive
Prairie Lane       Coldwater Street
Reed Street        State Road 120
Renee Drive        State Road 120
Renee Drive        West Street
Sabin Street       Coldwater Street
Shepherd Street    Albion Street
Shepherd Street    State Road 120
Sierer Street      Albion Street
Sierer Street      Ray-Clear Lake Road
Sierer Street      Spring Street
Sierer Street      State Road 120
Spring Haven Drive Hope Street
Spring Street      Coldwater Street
Spring Street      Ray-Clear Lake Road
Spring Street      Washington Street
Spring Street      Wayne Street
Swager Drive       Reed Road
Swager Drive       State Road 120
Tillotson Street   North Street
Tillotson Street   Spring Street
Tillotson Street   State Road 120
Tolford Street     Michael Street
Tolford Street     State Road 120
Washington Street  North Street
Washington Street  State Road 120
Water Street       Broad Street
Water Street       West Street
Wayne Street       State Road 120
 
   (B)   Four-way stop. The following streets in the town are designated as
four-way stop intersections for all traffic approaching from all directions,
and clearly marked stop signs shall be placed at the entrances to the
intersection. Every driver of a vehicle shall stop at such intersection before
entering such intersection except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic control signal.
Intersection
Intersection
Albion Street and Pleasant Street
Michael Street and Coffin Street
Michael Street and Coldwater Street
North Street and Tolford Street
Pearl Street and Broad Street
Spring Street and Coffin Street
Spring Street and Mill Street
Spring Street and Tolford Street
 
   (C)   Upon promulgation of this schedule according to law, the Street
Superintendent is hereby authorized to post all street signs necessary to
accomplish this schedule.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of this schedule commits an
ordinance violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine
not exceeding $500, plus additional costs to include reasonable attorney fees
and court costs incurred by the town for collection of the account, as
determined by the competent authority that hears the case.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 10-16-2018)
SCHEDULE II. YIELD STREETS.
   (A)   When a sign is posted giving notice thereof, a driver of a vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way at the following intersections.
 
Traffic On      Yields Right-of-Way to Traffic On
Pleasant Street Hardy Street
Pleasant Street North Street
 
   (B)   Upon promulgation of this schedule according to law, the Street
Superintendent is hereby authorized to post all street signs necessary to
accomplish this schedule.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of this schedule commits an
ordinance violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine
not exceeding $500, plus additional costs to include reasonable attorney fees
and court costs incurred by the town for collection of the account, as
determined by the competent authority that hears the case.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 10-16-2018)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
Street From; To Speed Limit
Street                      From; To                    Speed Limit
Abbott Drive                -                           20 mph
Alan Drive                  -                           20 mph
Charles Drive               -                           20 mph
Cora Lane                   -                           20 mph
Deborah Drive               -                           20 mph
Eagle Drive                 -                           20 mph
Elmer Drive                 -                           20 mph
Follett Lane                -                           20 mph
Janedale Drive              -                           20 mph
Nicholas Trail              -                           20 mph
Pamela Drive                -                           20 mph
Prairie Lane                -                           20 mph
Rachel Lane                 -                           20 mph
Ray-Clear Lake Road         Within the corporate limits 30 mph
                            of the Town of Fremont
Renee Drive                 -                           20 mph
Sand Drift Drive            -                           20 mph
                            From a point 350 feet west
State Road 120              of Coldwater Street, a      25 mph; when lights are
                            distance of approximately   flashing
                            700 feet
                            From a point 100 feet west
State Road 120              of Coffin Street to Shepard 30 mph
                            Street, a distance of
                            approximately 2,700 feet
                            From a point 575 feet west
                            of Washington Street, to a
State Road 120              point 100 feet west of      35 mph
                            Coffin Street, a distance
                            of approximately 1,450 feet
                            From Shepard Street to a
                            point 200 feet east of
State Road 120              County Road 375 East, a     35 mph
                            distance of approximately
                            1,250 feet
                            From a point 200 feet east
                            of the Abbott Estate West
State Road 120              Dr., to a point 575 feet    40 mph
                            west of Washington St., a
                            distance of approximately
                            1,400 feet
                            From a point 200 feet east
                            of County Road 375 E. to a
State Road 120, west bound  point 1,200 feet east of    45 mph
traffic                     County Road 375 E., a
                            distance of approximately
                            1,000 feet
                            From a point 1,400 feet
State Road 827              south of State Road 120 to  30 mph
                            State Road 120, a distance
                            of approximately 1,400 feet
                            From a point 500 feet south
                            of County Road 550 north to
State Road 827              a point 1,400 feet south of 35 mph
                            State Road 120, a distance
                            of approximately 1,800 feet
                            From a point 1,500 feet
                            south of County Road 550 N.
State Road 827, north bound to a point 500 feet south   45 mph
traffic                     of County Road 550 N., a
                            distance of approximately
                            1,000 feet
                            From a point approximately
Swager Drive                5,280 feet south and east   30 mph
                            from State Road 120 to its
                            end at Reed Road
                            From State Road 120 to a
Swager Drive                point approximately 5,280   35 mph
                            feet south and east from
                            State Road 120
                            From a point 600 feet south
                            of the intersection of
                            southern boundary of the    20 mph; when lights are
West Street                 right-of-way of State Road  flashing
                            120 to the southern
                            boundary of the right-of-
                            way of State Road 120
 
   Anyone violating any provisions of the maximum speed limits established by
this schedule shall be guilty of a Class C Infraction.
(1996 Code, §§ 8-21; 8-21.1; 8-22; 8-23; 8-24; 8-25; 8-26) (Am. Ord. 2001-03,
passed 9-10-2001; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 4-18-2006; Am. Ord. 2006-22, passed
10-17-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-02, passed 4-19-2011)
SCHEDULE IV. U-TURNS.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, it shall be illegal for
the drivers of vehicles to make a U-turn at the below areas.
 
Street                         Between
Toledo Street (State Road 120) Mill Street and Coffin Street
Wayne Street                   Street and Spring Street
 
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this schedule
shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $25.
(1996 Code, § 8-46)
SCHEDULE V. TRUCK ROUTES ESTABLISHED.
   The following areas are to be declared truck routes and loaded semi-trailers
meeting the weight restrictions applicable to State Road 120 are permitted
thereon:
Truck Route                    Located
Coldwater Street
Coffin Street                  Between Water and Pearl
Depot Street
Hardy Street                   Between Tillotson and eastern terminus of Hardy
McSwain-Cassell-Sidel Drives
N. Wayne Street
Ray Road / Ray Clear Lake Road
Reed Road
State Road 827
State Road 120
Swager Drive
Water Street
West Street                    From Water Street to Swager Drive only
 
(Ord. 2007-19, passed 1-8-2008)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Two-hour parking limits
   
II.   Parallel parking designated areas
   
III.   No parking
   
IV.   Vehicles six feet or higher
   
V.   Angle parking
SCHEDULE I. TWO-HOUR PARKING LIMITS.
   (A)   Park ing shall be limited to 2 hours at the below location(s).
 
Street          Between                        Time
                From its intersection with     Between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
N. Wayne Street Toledo Street (State Road 120) to 9:00 p.m.
                for 1 block north and south
 
   (B)   Any person violating this schedule shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding $10 or the vehicle may be removed at the owner’s expense.
(Am. Ord. 2004-24, passed 9-20-2004)
SCHEDULE II. PARALLEL PARKING DESIGNATED AREAS.
 
Area                                    Exception
All vehicles parked in the right of way
upon the roadways shall be parked       One hundred block of N. Pleasant Street
parallel to the roadways
All vehicles parked in the right of way Any other area where a method of
upon the roadways shall be parked       parking other than parallel parking has
parallel to the roadways                been designated by the Street
                                        Department of the Town of Fremont
 
   Any person violating this schedule shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$10 or the vehicle may be removed at the owner's expense.
(Am. Ord. 2004-10, passed 5-10-2004)
SCHEDULE III. NO PARKING.
   (A)   Parking of all motor vehicles upon Toledo Street (State Road 120)
shall be further restricted according to all postings made by the Indiana
Department of Transportation under the authority vested by the Indiana Code.
Street Side Location Time Parking is Unlawful; Exception
Street         Side  Location                      Time Parking is Unlawful;
                                                   Exception
Abbott Drive   -     -                             No parking between 1:00 a.m.
                                                   and 8:00 a.m.
Abbott Drive   West  -                             At all times
Alan Drive     -     -                             No parking between 1:00 a.m.
                                                   and 8:00 a.m.
Alan Drive     East  -                             At all times
Charles Drive  -     -                             No parking between 1:00 a.m.
                                                   and 8:00 a.m.
Charles Drive  North -                             At all times
Cora Lane      -     -                             No parking between 1:00 a.m.
                                                   and 8:00 a.m.
Cora Lane      North -                             At all times
Cora Lane      South Between Coldwater Street and  At all times
                     west end of Cora Lane
Deborah Drive  -     -                             No parking between 1:00 a.m.
                                                   and 8:00 a.m.
Deborah Drive  East  -                             At all times
Eagle Drive    -     From Janedale Drive to Toledo No parking between 1:00 a.m.
                     Street                        and 8:00 a.m.
Eagle Drive    East  From Toledo Street to         At all times
                     Janedale Drive
Eagle Drive    West  From Janedale Drive northerly At all times
                     to the end of Eagle Drive
Elmer Drive    -     -                             No parking between 1:00 a.m.
                                                   and 8:00 a.m.
Elmer Drive    East  -                             At all times
Follett Lane   -     -                             No parking between 1:00 a.m.
                                                   and 8:00 a.m.
Follett Lane   North -                             At all times
Janedale Drive -     -                             No parking between 1:00 a.m.
                                                   and 8:00 a.m.
Janedale Drive South -                             At all times
 
Street Side Location Time Parking is Unlawful; Exception
Street          Side            Location                Time Parking is
                                                        Unlawful; Exception
                                From its intersection   No parking between 3:00
N. Wayne Street -               with Toledo Street for  a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
                                1 block north and south
                                North of first alley    Except for firefighters
N. Wayne Street East            north of intersection   responding to a fire
                                of the street           call or emergency
                                                        vehicles
Nicholas Trail  -               -                       No parking between 1:00
                                                        a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
Nicholas Trail  North           -                       At all times
Nicholas Trail  West            -                       At all times
Pamela Drive    -               -                       No parking between 1:00
                                                        a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
Prairie Lane    -               -                       No parking between 1:00
                                                        a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
Prairie Lane    North           -                       At all times
Rachel Lane     -               -                       No parking between 1:00
                                                        a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
Rachel Lane     East            -                       At all times
Sabin Street    South           Between Coldwater and   At all times
                                Coffin Streets
SandDrift Drive -               -                       No parking between 1:00
                                                        a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
SandDrift Drive West            -                       At all times
Toledo Street   North and south From Mill Street to     No parking between 3:00
                                Baum Street             a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   The above referred to area is designated “no-parking” and that firms
authorized by the town be designated to tow away vehicles parked in violation
hereof and to impound same pending payment of 2 charges, fines and costs. The
fine for each violation shall not be less than $1 nor more than $1,000.
(1996 Code, § 8-13) (Am. Ord. 2002-06, passed 11-12-2002; Am. Ord. 2002-07,
passed 11-12-2002; Am. Ord. 2004-24, passed 9-20-2004; Am. Ord. 2006-22, passed
10-17-2006; Am. Ord. 2007-03, passed 3-20-2007 )
SCHEDULE IV. VEHICLES SIX FEET OR HIGHER.
   (A)   No vehicle having a height in excess of 6 feet is to be parked on the
below locations.
 
Street                         Location
                               In the town, closer than 50 feet from the corner
                               of the intersection of the street with the
Toledo Street (State Road 120) following streets: Wayne, Toledo (State Road
                               120), Pleasant, Mill, Bell, Albion, Hardy,
                               Spring, North, Michael, Pearl and Coffin
                               In the town, closer than 50 feet from the corner
                               of the intersection of street with the following
Wayne Street                   streets: Wayne, Toledo (State Road 120),
                               Pleasant, Mill, Bell, Albion, Hardy, Spring,
                               North, Michael, Pearl and Coffin.
 
   (B)   Violation of this schedule shall constitute a Class C Infraction and
any vehicle parked in violation hereof may be towed at the owner's expense.
(1996 Code, § 8-11)
SCHEDULE V. ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Parking on the following streets shall be reverse angle parking:
 
Street                         Side  Location
Toledo Street (State Road 120) South Between Wayne Street and Pleasant Street
 
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding $10 or the vehicle may be removed at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 9-18-2012)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
90.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
91.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
   
92.   ANIMALS
   
93.   ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
   
94.   TREES
   
95.   FAIR HOUSING
   
96.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
90.01   Authority to operate
   
90.02   Park and recreation sites within Fremont
   
90.03   Rules and regulations for the operation of public parks
   
Appendix A: Park and recreation sites
§ 90.01 AUTHORITY TO OPERATE.
   (A)   Under the provisions of Acts 1981, P.L. 309, SEC 110, (I.C. 36-10-3-3)
there is hereby established a Department of Parks and Recreation, composed of
the Parks and Recreation Board (hereafter referred to as Board,) a
superintendent and other personnel as the Board may determine.
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall consist of 4 members to be appointed by the Town
Council President.
      (2)   The members shall be appointed on the basis of their interest in
and knowledge of parks and recreation, but no more than 2 members may be
affiliated with the same political party.
   (C)   In addition the Town Council may provide for 1 or 2 ex-officio
members, those being:
      (1)   A member of the governing body of the school corporation selected
by that body;
      (2)   A member of the governing body of the library district selected by
that body; or
      (3)   Both (1) and (2).
   (D)   Ex-officio members have all the rights of regular members, including
the right to vote. A vacancy in an ex-officio position shall be filled by the
appointing authority.
   (E)   Initial appointments to the Board are as follows: 1 member for a term
of 1 year; 1 member for a term of 2 years; 1 member for a term of 3 years; 1
member for a term of 4 years.
   (F)   (1)   The Town Council President shall make the initial appointments
within 90 days of the adoption of this section.
      (2)   Thereafter, as a term expires, each new appointment is for a 4-year
term.
      (3)   All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member
continues in office until his or her successor is appointed.
      (4)   If an appointment for any new term is not made by the first Monday
in April, the incumbent shall serve another term.
      (5)   If a vacancy on the Board occurs, the Town Council President shall
appoint a person to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (G)   (1)   All meetings of the Board are open to the public. The Board
shall fix the time and place of the regular meetings, but shall meet at least
quarterly.
      (2)   At its first regular meeting each year the Board shall elect a
President and a Vice President.
      (3)   The Vice President may act as president during the absence or
disability of the President. The Board may select a Secretary either from
within or outside its membership.
   (H)   The Board shall have the general power to perform all acts necessary
to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition to all
other powers necessary to achieve the general objectives of the Board, the
Board shall have, for park and recreation purposes, all the powers and duties
listed in 110 Acts 1981, P.L. 309, amended by Acts 1981. P.L. 320, SEC. 6; P.L.
228-1986, § 1.
(I.C. 36-10-3-10 and 36-10-3-11) (1996 Code, § 5-1)
§ 90.02 PARK AND RECREATION SITES WITHIN FREMONT.
   The map in Appendix A depicts the existing and future park and recreation
sites.
(1996 Code, § 5-2)
§ 90.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE OPERATION OF PUBLIC PARKS.
   (A)   Fremont public parks shall be open to the public from 5:00 a.m. to 11:
00 p.m. each day. Playground areas, including the skate park, may be used from
8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. each day, weather permitting.
   (B)   Motorized vehicles shall be parked in designated parking areas only,
with the exception of designated parking areas, all motorized vehicles are
prohibited on park grounds.
   (C)   Pets are not allowed in public parks unless the pet is on a leash and/
or under the control of the handler. The handler must comply with all town
ordinances pertaining to animals, including noise, running at large, impounding
of and sanitation procedures. (See
Chapter 92: Animals of the Fremont Code of Ordinances.)
   (D)   Open fires, except in fireplaces, charcoal pits and grills, shall not
be permitted in any public park and shall not be allowed inside or under any
pavilion or roofed structure.
   (E)   Swimming and wading is prohibited in any body of water located on
public park property.
   (F)   Camping is not allowed in any public park without the prior approval
of the Fremont Town Council.
   (G)   Alcohol and controlled drugs, unless prescribed by a physician, are
prohibited on public park property.
   (H)   Park facilities, pavilions, fields and the like, may be reserved at
the Fremont Town Hall, 205 N. Tolford Street, on a first come first serve
basis, beginning on the first working day after January 1 of each year, or at
any time thereafter so long as the facility requested is available. There are
fees involved for reserving the park pavilion, costs are subject to change and
information on costs and deposits can be obtained at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, Town Hall, 260-495-7805.
   (I)   All law enforcement officers and any town employees are authorized to
enforce public park rules and regulations. Failure to follow rules and
regulations will result in the expulsion from park property and/or fines and
arrest it applicable town ordinances are violated or individuals resist
expulsion.
   (J)   The Town Council may issue exceptions to any of the above rules for
special events sponsored by the town or for other special events approved by
the Council prior to the event.
(Res. 2009-03, passed 4-21-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-Reference:
   Park pavilion rentals, garage sales and farmers market vendor permit fees,
see §
111.06
APPENDIX A. PARK AND RECREATION SITES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-908.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Authority to regulate
   
91.002   Preservation of public peace and order
   
91.003   Authority to regulate air and sound
   
91.004   Authority to regulate public gatherings
   
91.005   Smoking; cigars, pipes, cigarettes and weed plants
Burning and Fire Regulations
   
91.015   Definitions
   
91.016   Requirements
   
91.017   Enforcement
   
91.018   Fire limits established
   
91.019   Non-combustible material required
   
91.020   Prohibited actions
   
91.021   Open burning
   
91.022   Local disaster emergency burn ban
Sanitary Regulations
   
91.065   Compliance with State Board of Health
   
91.066   Requirements
   
91.067   Junk yards prohibited
   
91.068   Unlicensed vehicles
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
91.080   Discharge of firearms and throwing of missiles
   
91.081   Loitering prohibited
   
91.082   Definitions
   
91.083   Test for nuisance
   
91.084   Cleanliness of premises generally
   
91.085   Duty of owner or person in control of premises
   
91.086   Requirements of notice
   
91.087   Costs of abatement by town
   
91.088   Clearing of snow and ice required
Weeds
   
91.100   Definitions
   
91.101   Exclusions
   
91.102   Removal requirements
   
91.103   Notification
   
91.104   Removal time
   
91.105   Removal by town
   
91.106   Cost of removal
   
91.107   Certification of cost
   
91.108   Appeal process
   
91.109   Affect
   
91.110   Conflict of law
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   The town may regulate the conduct, or use or possession of property which
might endanger the public health, safety or welfare of its citizens.
(1996 Code, § 6-1)
§ 91.002 PRESERVATION OF PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER.
   The town may establish, maintain and operate a police and law enforcement
system to preserve public peace and order and may provide facilities and
equipment for that system.
(1996 Code, § 6-2)
§ 91.003 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE AIR AND SOUND.
   The town may regulate the introduction of any substance or odor into the
air, or any generation of sound.
(1996 Code, § 6-3)
§ 91.004 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   The town may regulate public gatherings, such as shows, demonstrations,
fairs, conventions, sporting events and exhibitions.
(1996 Code, § 6-4)
§ 91.005 SMOKING; CIGARS, PIPES, CIGARETTES AND WEED PLANTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the public health
and welfare by prohibiting smoking on town-owned vehicles and buildings,
including, but not limited to fire stations, police stations, Fremont utility
buildings, Street Department buildings, park restrooms and assembly halls; and
to guarantee the right of nonsmokers to breathe smoke-free air, and to
recognize that the need to breathe smoke-free air shall have priority over the
desire to smoke.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by the Town of Fremont and receives
direct monetary wages or profit.
      EMPLOYER. The Town of Fremont.
      ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on
all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from
the floor to the ceiling.
      SMOKING. Burning and carrying, inhaling or exhaling, of any lighted
cigar, cigarette, pipe, containing any weed or plant.
      TOWN OF FREMONT PROPERTY. All properties owned by The Town of Fremont,
including but not limited to the Town Hall, fire stations, fire apparatus,
police station, police vehicles, Fremont municipal utility buildings, Fremont
municipal utility vehicles, Street Department buildings, Street Department
vehicles, park restrooms and assembly halls.
   (C)   Posting of signs.
      (1)   “No Smoking” signs and/or the international “No Smoking” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
at all buildings, including the Town Hall, fire stations, police stations,
Fremont municipal utility buildings and Street Department buildings owned by
the Town of Fremont.
      (2)   All Town of Fremont property shall have posted at every entrance to
an enclosed area a conspicuous sign clearly stating/indicating that smoking is
prohibited.
      (3)   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from
Town of Fremont property (except for the vehicles owned or used by the Town of
Fremont).
   (D)   Smoking on Fremont property prohibited.
Smoking is prohibited within all enclosed areas on Town of Fremont property.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   This section shall be enforced by the Town Manager, an authorized
designee, any law enforcement officer or department head.
      (2)   Notice of the provisions of this section shall be given to all
applicants who seek employment with the Town of Fremont.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an employee or
private citizen may bring action to enforce this section.
      (4)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
section, the Manager or any person aggrieved by the failure of the authorized
designee, or department head or other person in control of town owned property
to comply with the provisions of this section may apply for injunctive relief
to enforce those provisions in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 7-19-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
BURNING AND FIRE REGULATIONS
§ 91.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BURNING CONTAINER. A metal or masonry inclosure with no more than 3/4-inch
openings at the top.
   RUBBISH. Matter such as ashes, can, metal wear, broken glass, crockery,
sweepings, boxes, wood, glass, weeds, paper or litter of any kind.
(1996 Code, § 6-21)
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks, see
Ch. 96
§ 91.016 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation within the corporation limits of the
Town of Fremont, Indiana, shall burn any rubbish except in metal or masonry
burning container being completely enclosed with 3/4-inch openings in the top
of the container and 3/4-inch openings on the sides of the container.
   (B)   While the rubbish is being burned, the metal or masonry burning
container shall not be located or situated closer than 20 feet from any
building, whether the building be a dwelling, commercial or storage structure.
(1996 Code, § 6-22) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.017 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The enforcement of this subchapter shall be by the Town Council of the
Town of Fremont, Indiana.
   (B)   (1)   The Town of Fremont, Indiana, may enforce the provisions of this
subchapter by injunction proceedings or by penalties hereinafter provided.
      (2)   In the event that injunction proceedings are instituted, the cost
thereof including attorney fees shall be paid by the individual person or
corporation violating the provisions of this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 6-23)
§ 91.018 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The following fire limits are established within the corporate limits of the
town: beginning at the intersection of Albion Street and Tolford center line of
Tolford Street, also know as Broad Street, to the intersection of Tolford
Street with Spring Street; thence east on the center line of Spring Street with
Pleasant Street; thence south on the center line of Pleasant Street to the
intersection of Pleasant Street with Albion Street; thence west on the center
line on Albion Street to the place of beginning.
(1996 Code, § 6-38)
§ 91.019 NON-COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL REQUIRED.
   Any new building erected or additions made to buildings already within the
fire zone, shall be of non-combustible material as approved by the State Fire
Code.
(1996 Code, § 6-39) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.020 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   (A)   It is made unlawful for any person or persons to remove any wooden
frame or other building, the outer walls and roof of which are not made and
constructed of some non-combustible material, from any point without the fire
limits to any point within the fire limits, or from any point within the fire
limits to any other point within the fire limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle or maintain any bonfire
or knowingly furnish the materials for any fire or to authorize or direct any
fire to be kindled or maintained at any place within the fire zone, except in a
properly installed stove, incinerator, fireplace, furnace or safely constructed
enclosure of 1/4-inch mesh wire, or similar safety device.
(1996 Code, § 6-40) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.021 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall kindle or maintain any open fire, or burn any
materials including leaves, trash, refuse, rubbish, debris, construction
materials or any other materials, whether organic or inorganic, within the town
limits of the Town of Fremont, Indiana.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit the maintenance of an outdoor fire for
cooking or recreational purposes provided that the fire is adequately confined
to a reasonable level using appropriate restraining apparatus for that purpose,
the fire is located no closer than 20 feet from any structure, and provided
that the fire is supervised at all times by 1 or more persons over the age of
18.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the prohibitions established by divisions (A) and (B)
above, the following types of open burning shall be permitted only with the
prior approval of the Chief of the Fremont Volunteer Fire Department or its
successor entity:
      (1)   Bonfires used for the purpose of celebrating school pep rallies;
      (2)   Bonfires used for the purpose of celebrating community events;
      (3)   Emergency burning of spilled petroleum products when all reasonable
efforts to recover the spilled material have been exhausted and failure to burn
materials would result in an imminent fire hazard or pollution of waterways;
      (4)   Burning of refuse resulting from a natural disaster;
      (5)   Burning for the purpose of fire training; and
      (6)   Operation of a municipal burning pit by the Town of Fremont,
Indiana.
   (D)   (1)   The express or implied repeal or amendment by this section of
any other section or division of any other section does not affect any rights
or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or procedures begun prior to the
effective date of this section.
      (2)   Those rights, liabilities and proceedings are continued, and
penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended section
as if this section had not been adopted.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 6-9-2003) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.022 LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY BURN BAN.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the Local Disaster Emergency
Burn Ban ordinance of the town and shall apply to the entire incorporated area
of the town. The mandatory provisions of this section and of any local disaster
emergency burn ban issued pursuant to this section, including the prohibitions
of certain burnings and the penalties for violating those prohibitions, shall
only apply to incorporated areas maintained by the town.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The principal executive officer, as defined in §
30.11 may declare a local disaster emergency burn ban, in the principal
executive officer's judgment, when such order would be appropriate under I.C.
10-14-3-29 and in the best interest of the public safety and welfare of the
residents of the town.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29, a declaration for a local disaster
emergency burn ban shall continue in effect for no longer than 7 days, except
with the consent of the Town Council that the local disaster emergency shall
last longer than 7 days. The local disaster emergency burn ban shall continue
until the principal executive officer, or the Town Council if applicable,
declares the emergency no longer exists and terminates the emergency order.
   (C)   Declaration. A local disaster emergency burn ban shall be declared in
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-29 and this section. The purpose of a local
disaster emergency burn ban is to keep the residents of the town informed of
the increased risk of fire danger due to dry weather conditions and to prohibit
certain burnings in order to protect the well being of the citizens and
property within the town.
   (D)   Prohibited burnings.
      (1)   Unless otherwise set forth herein, while a local disaster emergency
burn ban is in effect, the following burnings shall be prohibited within the
entire incorporated area of the town: (i) the burning of unattended campfires;
(ii) the burning of brush; (iii) the burning of trash fires; (iv) the burning
of articles within burn barrels; and (v) the burning of any other open air
fires, including the use of fireworks. The use of a gas or charcoal grill is
permissible and shall not be considered a violation of this section.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-11-14-10.5, while a local disaster emergency
burn ban is in effect, the use of fireworks shall only be permitted during the
following periods: (i) between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 2 hours after sunset
on June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8,
and July 9; (ii) between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
and (iii) between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (E)   Publication. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or
terminating a local disaster emergency burn ban shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22(b)(2). Publication and broadcast of a
local disaster emergency burn ban shall be made or caused to be made by the
principal executive officer or other officials designating the local disaster
emergency burn ban by a press release to all law enforcement agencies, fire
departments, hospitals, and news media in the town.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 7-5-2012) Penalty, see §
91.999
SANITARY REGULATIONS
§ 91.065 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE BOARD OF HEALTH.
   Every inhabitable dwelling, business house, boarding house, lodging house,
eating place, tenement, shop, factory, public hall, place of amusement and all
public buildings in the town shall be provided with a sanitary toilet of
sufficient size and construction to meet the full requirements of the rules of
the State Board of Health.
(1996 Code, § 6-71)
§ 91.066 REQUIREMENTS.
   Where at any time there shall be maintained, established or installed a
privy, the privy shall be so constructed or built and maintained in a manner so
as to meet the recommendations for construction and maintenance for sanitary
privies as set forth by the Bureau of Sanitary Engineering of the State Board
of Health, as may be amended from time to time.
(1996 Code, § 6-72) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.067 JUNK YARDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, corporation, partnership or
individual to own, operate or maintain, within the corporate limits of the Town
of Fremont, Steuben County, Indiana, any junk yards of any kind, nature or
character for the storage of refuse or garbage.
(1996 Code, § 6-84) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.068 UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   It shall also be unlawful to store any unlicensed motor vehicle, motor parts
or repair parts, machinery upon any lot or lots in the Town of Fremont, Steuben
County, Indiana, unless it shall be operated by a licensed automobile or
machinery dealer in the State of Indiana, and shall be subject to the
provisions of this code.
(1996 Code, § 6-85) Penalty, see §
91.999
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 91.080 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND THROWING OF MISSILES.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, no person shall
knowingly discharge a firearm or throw a missile within the corporate limits of
the Town of Fremont.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not be applicable to:
      (1)   Federal, state or local law enforcement officers, while acting in
furtherance of their law enforcement duties;
      (2)   Authorized persons appropriately using an interior firing range
designed and certified as being in compliance with Indiana state police, the
NRA or a state regulatory agency, and which is designed to and does preclude
the discharge from being audible on any adjacent property; or
      (3)   A person who acts within the permissible limits of self-defense and
defense of others, as described by I.C. 35-41-3-2 and the laws and statutes of
the State of Indiana.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIREARMS. Any weapon or device that has the capacity to, is designed to,
or that may readily be converted to expel a projectile by means of an
explosion.
      KNOWINGLY. A person engages in conduct "knowingly" when he or she is
aware of a high probability that he or she is discharging a firearm or throwing
a missile.
      MISSILE. Any weapon or object designed or used for throwing, hurling,
launching, or shooting, including, but not limited to, a stone, bullet, bolt or
arrow.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who knowingly violates Division (A) shall be fined
not more than $25 for each violation.
      (2)   No parent, guardian or other person having legal control of any
person less than 18 years of age, shall permit the minor to violate this
section. Any parent, guardian or other person having legal custody of a minor
person shall be liable for any fine assessed due to the minor's violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-13, passed - -)
§ 91.081 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   A person shall not stand, lie, lounge or sit (either directly or
on a chair, box or other object) on any street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter,
any public right-of-way or in any driveway open to the public or in any
doorway, entranceway or passageway affording entrance or exit by the public
into or from any building, regardless of whether the building or any
establishment therein is open for business or not. Nor shall a person
congregate with others in such places so as to physically obstruct by his or
her actions or behavior, presence or location, unimpeded passage by others.
      (2)   A person shall not sit, stand, lie or lounge upon, or hang upon or
from the exterior of any automobile, bus, truck, motor vehicle or vehicular
trailer (except in the cargo or passenger seats or compartments thereof),
whether the vehicle is moving, stopped or parked, in such a manner so as to
physically obstruct by his or her actions or behavior, presence or location,
unimpeded passage by others.
      (3)   A person shall not cause, or incite by illegal activities,
arguments or disturbances, or use abusive or obscene language disturbing others
within the business sections of the town.
      (4)   The prohibition, above, against sitting on the sidewalk shall not
apply to a bona fide vendor of newspapers who has in his or her immediate
possession current newspapers being offered for sale by him or her to the
general public and who is not obstructing passage by others.
      (5)   The prohibition, above, against sitting on the sidewalk and curbs
shall not apply during or immediately prior to any public parade or other
public celebration at the site of such parade or celebration for which parade
or celebration the proper governmental agency has granted permission.
      (6)   The prohibition against sitting on sidewalks shall not apply to
personnel of business establishments who, during a sidewalk sale for which a
proper permit has been granted by the Town, are sitting on chairs or benches on
the sidewalk adjacent to the establishment during the sale.
      (7)   The Town Council is empowered to suspend the provisions of this
section, or particular prohibitions hereof, generally or in certain areas only,
when, in connection with carnivals, public activities, and other public events,
such suspension is warranted in the opinion and discretion of the Town Council.
No such suspension shall be for a period of longer than 8 consecutive days
without a separate resolution of the Town Council for each period.
      (8)   Each Marshal of the Town is authorized to enforce the prohibitions
of this section by issuing a traffic summons to any offender seen by such
officer in violation of this section. However, a violation who is not a
resident in the state may be required to post bond, not to exceed $100,
notwithstanding his or her written promise to appear in court.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association or
company to erect, establish, situate or maintain any type of mailbox upon any
highway, state or county, any street, alley or sidewalk running through or in
the Town of Fremont for the purpose of having mail delivered thereto by the
Post Office Department without the express written approval of the Postmaster
of the Fremont Post Office and the Fremont Town Council.
      (2)   Any person or individual as described in division (B)(1) above
having violated this division shall be given written notice by the Town of
Fremont, Indiana, to remove the same within 5 days after the receipt of notice,
the Town of Fremont, Indiana, is authorized to remove the mailbox from the
highway, street, alley or sidewalk and the cost thereof shall be assessed
against the individual. The town shall use all legal means at its disposal to
collect the costs of removal.
(1996 Code, § 6-94)
§ 91.082 DEFINITIONS.
   Public nuisances are defined in accordance with I.C. 36-8-2-4 and may
include but shall not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Litter,
   (B)   Grass and weeds;
   (C)   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items, automobile parts or any
other property or items, which have accumulated outside a home, or on a vacant
lot, or a business or any other place within the Town of Fremont;
   (D)   Demolition and/or construction remains;
   (E)   Accumulated garbage and trash;
   (F)   Structures defaced with paint or graffiti or in any other way caused
to become unsightly;
   (G)   The placing or accumulating on or within any real or personal property
or the permitting of same, of any material which attracts or may attract
rodents, insects, domestic or wild animals in a manner so as to create a health
hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition;
   (H)   Trees, shrubbery, weeds or other matter obstructing public ways, or
causing visual bathers which create vehicular traffic or pedestrian safety
hazards;
   (I)   The unauthorized placement of fences, signs, shrubbery or any other
thing within the road rights-of-way;
   (J)   (1)   Noxious odors or smoke.
      (2)   If there emits from premises into the surrounding atmosphere like
odors, dust, smoke or other matter as to render ordinary use, or physical
occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible; and
   (K)   Noise. If there emits from premises noise noxious enough to destroy
the enjoyment of dwelling houses or other uses of property in the vicinity by
interfering with ordinary comforts of human existence.
(1996 Code, § 6-95)
§ 91.083 TEST FOR NUISANCE.
   Whether or not a particular annoyance, of the character listed in §
91.082 constitutes a nuisance shall depend upon its effect upon persons of
ordinary health and average sensibilities.
(1996 Code, § 6-96)
§ 91.084 CLEANLINESS OF PREMISES GENERALLY.
   (A)   All persons owning or controlling houses or premises or vacant lots
within the Town of Fremont, shall maintain the premises in a reasonably clean
and orderly manner and to a standard conforming generally to other orderly
premises in that vicinity.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section to abandon, neglect or
disregard any premises so as to permit the same to be considered a public
nuisance as defined in §
91.082.
(1996 Code, § 6-97)
§ 91.085 DUTY OF OWNER OR PERSON IN CONTROL OF PREMISES.
   No persons owning or controlling any premises in the town shall allow a
public nuisance as defined in §
91.082 to remain or exist thereon or permit the same to become unsightly,
unsanitary or obnoxious, a blight to the vicinity or offensive to the senses of
users of the public way abutting the same, for a period longer than 30 days in
any calendar year or a shorter period of time as may be required because of an
emergency or dangerous condition; or fail to comply with these requirements
after a written order from any officer of the town including but not limited to
police officers, the Town Manager or any other employee of the town authorized
by the Town Council to police like matters.
(1996 Code, § 6-98) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.086 REQUIREMENTS OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice to abate the nuisance shall be delivered in a manner so as
to assure receipt by the responsible party.
   (B)   The notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued;
      (2)   The address and a brief description of the property that is the
subject of the notice;
      (3)   The action that the notice requires the person to perform;
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is to be accomplished,
beginning the day after service of the notice has been accomplished; and
      (5)   A statement that failure to comply with the notice could result in
a remedial order and/or penalties as provided in the town code.
(1996 Code, § 6-99)
§ 91.087 COSTS OF ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   If the person to whom the notice is issued fails to abate the nuisance
or in any other way fails to comply with the notice, the town may take action
as is necessary to abate the nuisance and the costs of abating the nuisance
shall be charged to the person to whom the notice is issued, or to anyone who
has a substantial property interest in the property.
   (B)   (1)   Upon abatement of the nuisance by the town, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall make a certified statement of the actual cost incurred by the town in the
abatement, which certified statement shall include administrative expenses.
      (2)   The certified statement shall be delivered to the owner, lessee or
occupier of the real estate or property by registered mail.
      (3)   If the responsible party fails to pay the amount certified on the
statement within 10 days after receipt of the statement, a certified copy of
the statement shall be filed in the office of the auditor of Steuben County,
and the amount contained thereon shall be added to the tax duplicate of the
property effected by the work.
(1996 Code, § 6-100)
§ 91.088 CLEARING OF SNOW AND ICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   The occupant of occupied premises and the owner of unoccupied
premises or vacant lot situated in the town are required to keep the sidewalks
in front of or adjacent to the premises free from snow and ice, as provided in
this section.
      (2)   OCCUPANT, as used in this section, shall mean the person occupying,
for business, as a residence, or for other purposes, the first floor of any
building situated on the premises.
      (3)   If the first floor of any building is not occupied, then the
premises shall be deemed and held to be unoccupied, and the owner thereof shall
be required to keep the sidewalks in front of or adjacent thereto free from
snow and ice.
   (B)   In case any snow or ice accumulated on any sidewalk as described in
division (A) above has not been removed by the occupant or owner within 24
hours from the time the snow ceased to fall or the ice has accumulated, then in
either of those cases the occupant or owner shall be deemed and held to have
violated the provisions of this section.
   (C)   (1)   All businesses open to the public shall remove all snow or ice
accumulated on any sidewalk within 2 hours from the time the snow ceased to
fall or the ice has accumulated, unless that occurs during non-business hours,
in which case the snow and ice shall be removed within 2 hours after the start
of business.
      (2)   Should the provisions of this division (C) not apply for any
reason, nevertheless, business owners shall be subject to all other provisions
of this section.
   (D)   Any person charged with violation of this subchapter whether by
ticket, citation or affidavit, shall have the option of paying the fine imposed
within the time specified in the notice of arrest at the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s
office on entering a plea of guilty and on waiving appearance in court.
   (E)   The payment of a fine to the Clerk-Treasurer shall be deemed an
acknowledgment of conviction of the alleged offense, and the Clerk-Treasurer,
on accepting the prescribed fine, shall issue a receipt to the violator as
acknowledging payment therefore.
   (F)   If any owner, occupant or business as described in this section does
not remove the snow and ice as provided, the Street Superintendent is
authorized to remove or cause to be removed the snow and ice, and report, in
writing, the necessary expense incident thereto to the Clerk-Treasurer, who
shall certify the amount, with a description of the lot or parcel or ground and
the owner's name the amount shall then become a lien on the lot or parcel of
ground, and shall be collected by the Clerk-Treasurer at the same time and in
the same manner that the other assessments on real estate are collected.
(1996 Code, § 6-101)
WEEDS
§ 91.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Includes the following NOXIOUS WEEDS: Canada thistle, Johnson
grass and Sorghum album, Bur cucumber, Shattercane, Poison ivy, Poison sumac,
Poison oak, Quackgrass, Carolina horsenettle, Cocklebur, Wild mustard, Jimson,
Burdock, Ragweed, Thistle, and Indian or Wild Hemp.
   RANK VEGETATION. Any plant exceeding 6 inches in height. Trees, shrubberies,
flowers, ornamental grasses, and agricultural crops exceeding 6 inches are not
to be considered RANK VEGETATION unless they constitute an extreme deviation
from the aesthetic appearance of the real estate within the Town of Fremont.
   WETLANDS.  A swampy or marshy area and include the areas immediately
surrounding ponds, riverbeds, and streams.
   WOODED AREAS.  An area densely covered with trees and shrubs.
(Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 91.101 EXCLUSIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Wooded areas;
   (B)   Wetlands;
   (C)   Wildlife projects conducted and funded by educational institutions or
local, state or federal government entities; or
   (D)   Hay fields and pastures.
(Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 91.102 REMOVAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Rank vegetation: The owners of real estate located within the Town of
Fremont shall cut or remove rank vegetation from an area within the public
right-of-way, within 150 feet of an adjacent real estate owner or within 150
feet of a public right-of-way.
   (B)   Noxious weeds: The owners of real estate located within the Town of
Fremont shall remove and eliminate all noxious weeds.
(Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 91.103 NOTIFICATION.
   An owner of real estate within the Town of Fremont or resident of the Town
of Fremont may file a written complaint with the Clerk-Treasurer or Town
Manager. The Town Manager shall investigate the complaint. If the Town
Manager's investigation indicates that there is a violation of this subchapter
significant enough to warrant enforcement, the Town Manager or Clerk-Treasurer
will issue a notice to the owner in accordance with §
91.104. The Town may initiate an enforcement action on its own without a
complaint being filed with the Clerk-Treasurer or Town Manger if the Town
becomes aware of a violation of this subchapter which the Town believes is
significant enough to warrant enforcement.
(Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 91.104 REMOVAL TIME.
   Upon discovering a parcel of real estate containing rank vegetation or
noxious weeds, the Town Manager or Clerk-Treasurer shall give the owner of the
real estate a written notice to cut and remove the rank vegetation or remove
and eliminate the noxious weeds. The owner shall have 5 business days to abate
the violation from the real estate. Service of this notice is adequate if given
to the owner of the real estate in person or sent by first-class mail, postage
prepaid, to the owner at the address listed with the County Auditor's office.
(Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 91.105 REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   Should any person who has been provided written notice fail, neglect or
refuse to cut or remove the rank vegetation and/or fail, neglect or refuse to
remove and eliminate the noxious weeds from the real estate within 5 business
days as required by the notice, the town may retain the services of a person or
business to enter upon the premises and cause the rank vegetation to be cut or
removed and/or cause the noxious weeds to be removed and eliminated.
(Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 91.106 COST OF REMOVAL.
   In the event the Town is forced to cut or remove rank vegetation and/or
remove and eliminate-the noxious weeds, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a bill
to the owner of the real estate for $75 or the actual cost of the abatement, if
greater. The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep record of the billing and collect the
same as the Clerk-Treasurer does other charges of the town. Payment shall be
due to the Clerk-Treasurer's Office 15 days after the bill is mailed to the
owner.
(Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 91.107 CERTIFICATION OF COST.
   If the owner fails to pay the bill within 15 days, the Town may collect the
bill in any manner available at law. The Clerk-Treasurer may also certify to
the County Auditor the amount of the bill plus any additional administrative
costs incurred in the certification. The Auditor shall place the total amount
certified on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount,
including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes and
shall be disbursed to the general fund of the town as provided by I.C. 36-7-
10.1-4.
(Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 91.108 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   A person may appeal a notice of violation issued pursuant to this
subchapter or a bill issued pursuant to this subchapter by submitting a
request, in writing, to the Clerk-Treasurer. The request must be received by
the Clerk-Treasurer within the amount of time set out in the notice of
violation or within 15 days of the date the bill was issued. A hearing before
the Town Council to dispute the existence of a violation or dispute the
accuracy of a bill issued will be scheduled.
   (B)   At the hearing before the Town Council, the person receiving a notice
of violation will be given the opportunity to appear, with or without counsel,
to present such evidence to the Town Council. Each person appearing shall have
the opportunity to cross-examine those persons establishing the violation for
the town, and testify on their own behalf.
   (C)   At the hearing the Town Council shall enter a finding determining
whether the party notified is the owner of the real estate; and whether the
condition of the real estate is in violation of this subchapter or whether the
bill issued is accurate. The Town Council may affirm or modify the notice of
violation consistent with the Town Council's findings. All findings by the Town
Council shall be deemed conclusive.
(Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 91.109 AFFECT.
   The express or implied repeal or amendment by this subchapter of any other
subchapter or part of any other subchapter does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or procedures begun prior to the
effective date of this subchapter. Those rights, liabilities, and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed
or amended subchapter as if this subchapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 91.110 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   No part of this subchapter shall be interpreted to conflict with any local,
state or federal laws, and all reasonable efforts should be made to harmonize
same. Should any section or part thereof of this subchapter be declared by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the subchapter as a whole, or any other portion there-of other
than that portion so declared to be invalid, and for this purpose the
provisions of this subchapter are hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-19-2006)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any persons violating any provision of §
91.022 shall be guilty of the commission of an infraction and may be fined any
sum not to exceed $100, and such shall be enforceable in any court of law, duly
authorized by state law, and in addition to such fine the court shall be
authorized to direct the violator to repay the town any monetary losses or
expenses incurred in the incident.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 7-5-2012)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Control over animals
   
92.02   Certain animals prohibited
   
92.03   Harboring noisy animals prohibited
   
92.04   Running at large
   
92.05   Impounding; destroying dogs or animals
   
92.06   Authority
   
92.07   Sanitation procedures
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 CONTROL OVER ANIMALS.
   The town may regulate the control of animals, and may establish animal
shelters.
(1996 Code, § 6-5)
§ 92.02 CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to house, keep or
harbor cattle, sheep, hogs or any fowl within the corporate limits of the town.
(1996 Code, § 6-9) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 HARBORING NOISY ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to keep or harbor any
dog or other type domestic animal which habitually barks, howls, yelps, cries
or makes any other type noise to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of
the neighborhood, or in a manner so as to materially disturb or annoy persons
in the neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities.
   (B)   These dogs and other type of animals are declared to be a public
nuisance.
(1996 Code, § 6-10) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It is unlawful for the owner or keeper of a dog or other domestic animal to
permit the dog or animal to roam the streets, alleys or other public places of
the town unless under the personal control and custody of the owner, or some
individual authorized to be in charge by the owner, secured by a leash or reins
or a dog or domestic animal trained to respond to voice command and reasonably
expected to obey voice command.
(1996 Code, § 6-11) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 IMPOUNDING; DESTROYING DOGS OR ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal or any deputy thereof is authorized to seize, hold
for impounding or destroy any unlicensed, vicious or stray dog, and any vicious
or stray domestic animal, if the dog or animal is found in any public place in
the town or upon any premises other than those occupied or owned by the owner
of the dog.
   (B)   This authority includes, but is not limited to the authority to use
tranquilizer guns or where appropriate lethal weapons.
(1996 Code, § 6-12) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of §§
92.04 through
92.06 are to be in addition to the provisions of any other ordinance or
statute, and the authority granted by this chapter is in addition to the
authority granted by any other ordinance or statute.
(1996 Code, § 6-13) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 SANITATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No owner or custodian of any animal shall cause or allow an animal to
soil, defile or defecate on any public property or upon any street, sidewalk,
public way, play area or common grounds owned jointly by the members of a
homeowners or condominium association, or upon private property other than that
of the owner, unless the owner or custodian immediately removes and disposes of
all feces deposited by an animal by the following methods:
      (1)   Collection of the feces by appropriate implement and placement in a
paper or plastic bag or container;
      (2)   Removal of the bag or container to the property of the animal owner
or custodian or disposition in garbage bins, not storm drains or drainage
ditches or any other public or private property except private property owned
by the owner or custodian; and
      (3)   The owner or agent walking his or her dog or other animal outside
of his or her private property must have in his or her possession a pooper
scooper, plastic bag or similar devise to pick up the dog's excrement if
deposited while on the walk.
   (B)   No person owning, harboring or keeping an animal within the town shall
permit any waste matter from the animal to collect or remain on the property of
the owner or custodian, or on the property of others so as to cause or create
an unhealthy, unsanitary, dangerous or offensive living condition on the
owner's or custodian's property, or to abutting property of others.
   (C)   No person owning, harboring, keeping or in charge of any animal shall
cause unsanitary dangerous or offensive conditions by virtue of the size or
number of animals maintained at a single location or due to the inadequacy of
the facilities.
   (D)   Guide dogs for the blind are exempt.
(1996 Code, § 6-15) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Adoption of state law
   
93.02   Abandoned Vehicle Fund established
   
93.03   Notice of violation
   
93.04   Emergency situations
   
93.05   Vehicle removal
   
93.06   Notification of towing
   
93.07   Fees
   
93.08   Sale of abandoned vehicles
   
93.09   Abandoned vehicles on private property
   
93.10   Disposal of vehicles
   
93.11   Liens
   
93.12   Waiver of responsibility
§ 93.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   All of the power, purpose, provisions and definitions (I.C. 9-22-1 et seq.
and I.C. 9-13-2 et seq.) contained in such “Abandoned Vehicle Act” are now
incorporated by reference in this chapter and made a part thereof.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
§ 93.02 ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND ESTABLISHED.
   The town hereby establishes the Abandoned Vehicle Fund (the “Fund”). The
Town Council may appropriate sufficient money to the Fund to carry out the
purposes of this chapter. All revenue received and all costs of implementation
of the chapter shall be deposited to or credited against the Fund. All money
remaining in the Fund at the end of the year shall remain in the Fund and this
Fund shall not revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
§ 93.03 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   A law enforcement officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle, or parts of
a vehicle, within the jurisdictional limits of the town believed to be
abandoned shall post a notice on the vehicle stating:
   (A)   Time and date, officer's name, public agency, and the address and
telephone number to contact for further information;
   (B)   Notice that the vehicle or parts thereof will be removed after 72
hours.
   (C)   Notice that the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible
for the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Notice that the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned.
   (E)   Notice that the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by
removing the vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
§ 93.04 EMERGENCY SITUATIONS.
   When an abandoned vehicle creates an emergency situation, the vehicle may be
removed immediately. “Emergency Situation” means that the presence of the
vehicle interferes physically with the conduct of normal business operations of
the person who owns or controls the private property or poses a threat to the
safety or security of persons or property, or both.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
§ 93.05 VEHICLE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Any vehicle or vehicle parts, which have not been removed within 72
hours of placement of the notice on it, shall be towed, at the owner's expense,
to a reasonable location for storage and stored, at the owner's expense.
   (B)   Before the towing of the vehicle, an officer shall prepare a report
for the town and take photographs of the vehicle or vehicle parts.
   (C)   The report shall describe the abandoned vehicle or parts, including
make, model, vehicle identification number, license plate number and a
description of the vehicle.
   (D)   The report shall include information on the condition of the vehicle,
including missing parts, damage, and other facts that might substantiate the
estimated market value of the vehicle or parts. Photographs shall be taken to
describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
   (E)   The report shall also request from the Indiana Bureau of Motor
Vehicles the name and contact information for the owner and any person or
business who holds a lien on the vehicle.
   (F)   The report and photographs of the vehicle shall be maintained by the
town and filed with the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles with 72 hours after
removal.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
§ 93.06 NOTIFICATION OF TOWING.
   (A)   The town, after taking custody of the abandoned vehicle and parts and
filing the report with the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles, will attempt to
notify the owner and any lienholder of the location of the vehicle or parts.
   (B)   Within 72 hours after removal of a vehicle to a storage yard or towing
service, the town or towing service shall conduct a search of national
databases, including a database of vehicle identification numbers, to attempt
to obtain the name and address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the
vehicle.
   (C)   If the town obtains the name and address of the person who owns or
holds a lien on the vehicle, within 72 hours after obtaining the name and
address, the town shall, by certified mail, notify the owner or lien holder of
the name, address, and telephone number of the town.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
§ 93.07 FEES.
   (A)   The town shall charge the owner of the abandoned vehicle or parts the
actual cost of towing and the actual storage fee, which will accrue daily, plus
any costs of disposition.
   (B)   The owner of the abandoned vehicle shall be responsible for paying the
town all of the above fees, up to a maximum amount of $1,500, before recovering
possession of the vehicle or parts from the town.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
§ 93.08 SALE OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The owner of an abandoned vehicle shall have 20 days, from the date of
the notice referenced in §
93.06, to pay the towing fee and accrued storage fees for the vehicle and to
recover possession of the vehicles taken into custody by the town.
   (B)   If the owner of an abandoned vehicle does not pay the towing fees,
storage fees, and recover possession of the abandoned vehicle within the 20
days provided in division (A), the town may sell the vehicle in any
commercially reasonable manner, and the owner of the vehicle shall be
responsible for any and all costs incurred by the town in selling the abandoned
vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Upon selling the abandoned vehicle, the town will apply the
proceeds from the sale of the abandoned vehicle to the fees it incurred to tow
and store the vehicle, as well as any other costs and expenses associated with
selling the vehicle.
      (2)   A statement of the sale proceeds shall be sent to the owner of the
abandoned vehicle that describes the application of said proceeds to fees,
costs and other expenses.
      (3)   If the proceeds of the sale of the abandoned vehicle do not
adequately compensate the town, then the town may sue the owner of the
abandoned vehicle to obtain the remainder of the outstanding fees.
      (4)   If the proceeds from the sale exceed the costs, fees, and expenses,
the town shall forward any remaining proceeds to the previous owner of the
vehicle or lienholder.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
§ 93.09 ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   In the event that an abandoned vehicle is on private property, the
town, upon being notified by the owner of the real property on which an
abandoned vehicle has remained for a period of at least 72 hours, shall place
notice upon said abandoned vehicle or parts.
   (B)   If after 72 hours the vehicle has not been removed, the town or person
who owns or controls the private property may have the vehicle towed from the
private property. The officer shall prepare a report with photographs of the
abandoned vehicles or parts and otherwise follow the procedures provided above.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
§ 93.10 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, if the officer
reasonably determines the fair market value of the abandoned vehicle or parts
is less than $500, then the town will immediately dispose of the abandoned
vehicle to a storage yard, for sale not less than 30 days after the date on
which the towing service removed the abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs relating to the
abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (C)   The town after disposing of the vehicle shall retain the original
records and photographs for at least 2 years.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
§ 93.11 LIENS.
   If the owner or the holder of a lien on an abandoned vehicle or parts cannot
be identified due to the condition of the abandoned vehicle or parts, then the
abandoned vehicle may be disposed of without notice.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
§ 93.12 WAIVER OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   The town, its employees, agents, contractors, officials, officers, towing
service or storage yard shall not be responsible to the owner or any lienholder
of an abandoned vehicle or parts for any damage to the abandoned vehicle
occurring during the removal, storage or disposition of an abandoned vehicle or
parts.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-9-2007)
CHAPTER 94: TREES
Section
   
94.01   Tree Preservation Board
   
94.02   Duties of the Board
   
94.03   Street trees
   
94.04   Tree care
   
94.05   Regulation of tree care
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 TREE PRESERVATION BOARD.
   (A)   The Street Superintendent shall serve as the Town Forester for the
Town of Fremont.
   (B)   (1)   There is hereby created and established a Town Tree Preservation
Board (Board) for the Town of Fremont consisting of 5 members.
      (2)   The members shall consist of the Town Forester or his or her
designee, 1 member of the Town Council as appointed by the Town Council, 1
member of the Park Board as appointed by the Park Board President and 2 town
residents initially selected from the Tree Ordinance Committee at an open
public meeting.
      (3)   Thereafter, the Town Council shall select 2 town residents for each
subsequent Board.
   (C)   (1)   The term of the Board members shall be 3 years except that the
term of the Park Board and Town Council members appointed to the first Board
shall be for only 1 year.
      (2)   In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed by the Town Council for the
unexpired portion of the term.
      (3)   Following expiration of these members’ terms, the positions will be
filled according to procedures established in open public meeting by the Board.
   (D)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 94.02 DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Town Council.
   (B)   The purpose of the Board shall be to promote the responsible planting
of trees on public and private property, public education about trees,
promoting proper maintenance of trees, advocating trees within the town, and
developing innovative and joint funding from a variety of sources.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel, develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for the
care, preservation, pruning, planting and replanting along streets and in other
public areas. The plan will include a tree inventory to be conducted on a
regular basis and updated as tree planting, maintenance and removals are done.
   (D)   The Board shall present the plan annually to the Town Council during
the month of March of each year and upon their acceptance and approval shall
constitute the official comprehensive town tree plan for the Town of Fremont.
   (E)   The Board, when requested by the Town Council, shall consider,
investigate, make a finding, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
   (F)   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep minutes of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business. Board will follow the Open
Door Policy and file with the Fremont Clerk-Treasurer the regular annual
meeting schedule in December of the preceding year and all meetings are subject
to 48-hour notice. The minutes of all meetings will be filed with Clerk-
Treasurer as a matter of public record.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 94.03 STREET TREES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on
land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, highways,
avenues, alleys or ways, or which overhang any streets, highways, avenues,
alleys, sidewalks or ways within the town.
      TREE LAWN. That area of land between a parcel of privately-owned property
and any road, street or highway, but which is actually included within the
road, street or highway right-of-way.
   (B)   The Committee shall recommend to the Town Council the town street tree
planting specifications (specifications). Subject to Town Council approval,
these specifications shall list the official street tree species for the town.
The specifications shall also contain the minimum distances between the trees
and other trees and structures which must be followed for the planting of any
tree under this chapter. The Town Council may amend the specifications from
time to time with advice from the Board.
   (C)   No species other than those included in the specifications may be
planted on the tree lawn without written permission of the Board.
   (D)   The spacing of street trees shall be in accordance with the
specifications, and no trees shall be planted closer to another tree or
structure except as recommended in the specifications unless in special
plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect or forester, and then
approved by the Board.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 94.04 TREE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs which are growing in or overhanging the lines of all
streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be
necessary to ensure public safety of public grounds.
   (B)   (1)   The town shall have the right, and may remove or cause or order
to be removed, any tree, plant or shrub or part thereof located on either
public or private property within the town which is in an unsafe condition or
which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas
lines, water lines or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect or other pest and which represents a threat to public
safety.
      (2)   The Board will notify in writing owners of any like trees. Removal
shall be done by the owners at their own expense within 60 days after the date
of the notice. In the event or failure of the owners to comply with the
provisions, the town shall have the authority to remove trees and recover
reasonable expenses incurred in the removal.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of the trees
is in accordance with this chapter and the specifications developed by the
Board and approved by the Town Council.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or town
department to top any street tree or other tree on nonpublic property. TOPPING
is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than 3 inches in
diameter within the tree's crown to a degree so as to remove the normal canopy
and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or
certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning
practices are impractical may be exempted from this section at the
determination of the Board.
   (E)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F) below, every owner of any
privately-owned tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the town
shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the light from
any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that
there shall be a clear space of 15 feet above the surface of any street or
alley and a clearance space of 8 feet above the surface of any sidewalk.
      (2)   The owner shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
The town shall have the right to prune or cause to be pruned, any tree or shrub
on the private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light
along the street from a street light or interferes with the visibility of any
traffic control device or sign.
   (F)   (1)   Any tree overhanging the right-of-way of any state road within
the town shall be pruned, cut and maintained by the Indiana Department of
Transportation so that no branches shall obstruct the light from any street
lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there shall be
a clear space of 15 feet above the surface of any state highway or right-of-
way.
      (2)   The state shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public
which overhang any state road or right of way, and shall have the right to
prune any tree or shrub which overhangs a state road or right-of-way when it
interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a street light
or interferes with the visibility of any traffic control device or sign even if
the tree or shrub is on private property.
   (G)   No person shall intentionally attach any wire, nails, advertising
posters or other contrivances to any street tree on the tree lawn.
   (H)   No person shall intentionally carve, cut, damage, transplant or remove
any street tree on the tree lawn.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 4-18-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 REGULATION OF TREE CARE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere
with the Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street trees or
trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage professionally
in the business or occupation of pruning, treating or removing street trees
within the Town of Fremont without first filing evidence of possession of
liability insurance with the Clerk-Treasurer in the minimum amounts of $50,000
for bodily injury and $100,000 for property damage indemnifying the town or any
person injured or damages resulting from the pruning, treating or removing of
street trees.
   (C)   Any town employee doing work in accordance with instructions of his or
her supervisor, the Town Manager or the Town Council shall be exempt from these
regulations but will comply with tree care regulations of this chapter as
standard operating procedure.
   (D)   Any public service company, or company doing work for a public service
company, doing work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors shall
present a plan for pruning, trimming or removal of street trees to the town
forester or his or her designee for approval before beginning work and file
evidence of the plan being approved by a trained arborist.
   (E)   The Town Council shall review the conduct, acts and decisions of the
Board, and any person may appeal any ruling or order of the Board to the Town
Council who may hear the matter and make the final decision.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 4-18-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any section of this chapter shall be given
written notice of the violation by the Town Forester or his or her designee and
shall be instructed to remedy the violation within 30 days of notice.
   (B)   Any person who shall fail to remedy or abate the violation shall be
fined a sum not less than $50 and not to exceed $500 for each violation, plus
court costs.
   (C)   The town may commence an action to abate or enjoin the violations and/
or to assess the fines in any court with appropriate jurisdiction in the
county.
   (D)   In the event a lawsuit is commenced to abate the violations or to
assess a fine against a person and the person is found to have failed to remedy
a violation, the person shall be responsible and liable to the town for all
costs of that action, including but not limited to the costs and expenses of
remedying the violation, the costs of suit, expenses and reasonable attorney
fees incurred by the town in bringing the action.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 4-18-2006)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy statement
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Residential real estate
   
95.06   Provision of brokerage services
   
95.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
95.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.09   Exemptions
   
95.10   Administrative enforcement
   
95.11   Separability; limitation of liability
§ 95.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It is the policy of the Town of Fremont, Indiana, to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(1996 Code, § 7.5-1)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that a person will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits 1 or
more of a person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having a like impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having a like impairment; and/or
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and any other impairment defined under
I.C. 22-9.5-2-2.
      (2)   The provisions of this definition notwithstanding, the term
DISABILITY does not include current illegal use of or addiction to a controlled
substance as defined in § 802 of Title 21 of the U.S.C.; nor does the term
DISABILITY include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
95.04,
95.05,
95.06,
95.07,
95.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by 1 or more
families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by 1 or more families.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS means
discrimination because the person is:
      (1)   Pregnant;
      (2)   Domiciled with an individual under the age of 18 years of age in
regard to whom the person is:
         (a)    The parent or legal custodian; or
         (b)   Has the written permission of the parent or legal custodian for
domicile with that person; or
      (3)   In the process of obtaining legal custody of an individual younger
than 18 years of age.
   FAMILY. An individual (I.C. § 22-9.5-2-9) or individuals having familial
status as that term is defined in this section.
   PERSON. Includes 1 or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(1996 Code, § 7.5-2)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
95.09 below and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the
sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
95.04 below apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
95.04 is to apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by owner where the private
individual owner does not own more than 3 single-family houses at any 1 time;
provided that in the sale of a single-family house by a private individual
owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who was not the most
recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption only applies to 1
sale within any 24-month period. The private individual owner may not own any
interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any
right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than
3 single-family houses at any 1 time. The sale or rental of any single-family
house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or any employee or agent of any
broker, agent or salesperson;
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other professional assistance
as necessary to perfect or transfer title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than 4 families living independently of each
other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies 1 of the living quarters as
his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in 3 or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in 2 or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, 5 or more families.
(1996 Code, § 7.5-3)
§ 95.04 SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
95.03 above and except as exempted by §§
95.03(B) and
95.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin or
an intention to make any like preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin; and
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   For purposes of this division, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
that person if modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted; or
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when accommodations may be necessary to afford a person
equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.
      (3)   Nothing in this division requires a dwelling to be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
      (4)   Nothing in this division requires, with respect to a rental
property or property sold on an installment basis, a landlord or contract
seller to allow modifications to a dwelling which will irreparably destroy the
original design of a home which was built over 50 years previously or which was
custom built for the owner as a residence; nor shall it require a landlord or
contract seller to allow modifications which would substantially reduce the
value of the property where the landlord or contract seller has reasonable
doubt as to the financial capability of the renter or buyer to restore the
dwelling to its original state upon termination of the lease or default upon
the contract by the buyer.
(1996 Code, § 7.5-4)
§ 95.05 RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available a transaction, or in the
terms or conditions of a transaction, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(1996 Code, § 7.5-5)
§ 95.06 PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It is unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of access, membership or participation, on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
(1996 Code, § 7.5-6)
§ 95.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It is unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any person
in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any other
person in the exercise of any right granted or protected by §§
95.03,
95.04,
95.05 or
95.06.
(1996 Code, § 7.5-7)
§ 95.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injuries, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
a person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above, or is or has participated lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate; or
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a violation and the town, or any party aggrieved by the violation shall be
entitled to seek and received injunctive relief to require cessation of any
violations, or future violations.
(1996 Code, § 7.5-8)
§ 95.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is to prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to those persons,
unless membership in a religion is restricted on account of race, color or
national origin. Nor does anything in the chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental and occupancy of lodgings to its members or
from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least 1 person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(1996 Code, § 7.5-9)
§ 95.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter is
vested in the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative enforcement of
actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Clerk-Treasurer of the town is the
designated person to receive any complaints brought to the attention of the
town and is responsible for forwarding all formal complaints of violations of
the provisions of this chapter to the Commission.
   (B)   All departments, officers and agencies of the Town of Fremont, Indiana
shall carry out their administrative duties pertaining to the departments,
programs and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
consistent with the purposes of this chapter and are to cooperate with the
officers involved with the administration thereof and the Commission to further
those purposes.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town of Fremont, Indiana, shall provide
information available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting
information as may be provided to the town from time to time, along with a copy
of the provisions of this chapter if so requested, along with the address of
the Commission.
(1996 Code, § 7.5-10)
§ 95.11 SEPARABILITY; LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of the
chapter and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly
situated or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(1996 Code, § 7.5-11)
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is to be construed as imposing upon the town
or any town officer administering the same any liability in addition to any the
town or the official would have otherwise been subjected to had this chapter
not been adopted. Whenever any violation of this chapter is also a violation of
state or federal law, and a state or federal agency, officer, commission or
board has jurisdiction to prosecute under the state or federal law, then the
town shall defer to the state or federal agency, officer, commission or board
in the enforcement thereof. In addition, whenever any aggrieved party has
available to the party relief in the form of civil penalties or injunctive
rights as against a violator of this chapter, then the town shall defer to the
party in the initiation of any enforcement of this chapter. Provided, however,
when the town has been provided a written opinion by legal counsel stating that
the state, federal law, or the availability of civil penalties or injunctive
rights are not as extensive as are provided by the terms of this chapter, or
are inadequate to cause cessation of violations of the chapter, then the Town
Council may approve the initiation of enforcement of the chapter directly.
(1996 Code, § 7.5-12)
CHAPTER 96: FIREWORKS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Consumer fireworks
   
96.03   Permitted times
   
96.04   Exceptions
   
96.05   Prohibition in times of drought
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Burning and fire regulations, see §§
91.015 through
91.022
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. A small firework that is designed primarily to produce
visible or audible effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with
the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by
the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. 1507. The
term also include some small devices designed to produce and audible effect,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of
explosive composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of
explosive composition. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture
of charcoal, sulfur, and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to
produce an audible effect.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed 8-21-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-18-2014; Am. Ord.
2016-07, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 96.02 CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)    Consumer fireworks include:
      (1)   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines, and shells;
      (2)   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes, and
chasers; and
      (3)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects described
in division (A)(1) and (2) of this section.
   (B)    Consumer fireworks shall not include the following items referenced
in I.C. 22-11-14-8(a):
      (1)   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers. However, the total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed 100 grams per item. Device containing chlorate or
perchlorate salts may not exceed 5 grams in total composition per item;
      (2)   Cylindrical fountains;
      (3)   Cone fountains;
      (4)   Illuminating torches;
      (5)   Wheels;
      (6)   Ground spinners;
      (7)   Filter sparklers;
      (8)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (9)   Smoke devices; and
      (10)   Trick noisemakers, which include:
         (a)   Party poppers;
         (b)   Booby traps;
         (c)   Snappers;
         (d)   Trick matches;
         (e)   Cigarette loads; and
         (f)   Auto burglar alarms.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed 8-21-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-18-2014; Am. Ord.
2016-07, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 96.03 PERMITTED TIMES.
   No person within the Town of Fremont, Indiana, shall use, ignite, or
discharge or permit to be used, ignited, or discharged any type of consumer
fireworks on any day at any time other than the following:
   (A)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 2 hours after sunset on June 29,
June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July 9;
   (B)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
   (C)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1; and
   (D)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 2 hours after sunset on the
Saturday during the Fremont Music Fest, except as this subpart may from time to
time conflict with an allowable date and time provided for under division (A)
of this section.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed 8-21-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-18-2014; Am. Ord.
2016-07, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 96.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, Fremont High School is
permitted to use fireworks at home football games.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 96.05 PROHIBITION IN TIMES OF DROUGHT.
   Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary, when it is necessary for the
protection of public health and safety, such as in conditions of extreme
drought, the Town Council of the Town of Fremont may prohibit the use of any
and all consumer fireworks. The Town Council may only prohibit the use of any
and all consumer fireworks for so long as the emergency or conditions justify
their prohibition.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed 8-21-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-18-2014; Am. Ord.
2016-07, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The Fremont Police Department shall be charged with enforcing the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, or association violating the provisions
of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall be fined in the amount
of $100 for each violation. Violations of this chapter shall be prosecuted
through the Steuben County Courts.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed 8-21-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-18-2014; Am. Ord.
2016-07, passed 9-20-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL FEE, LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
   
111.   SPECIFIC LICENSING REGULATIONS
   
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   
113.   REGULATION OF CERTAIN COMMERCIAL SIDEWALK USE
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL FEE, LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Authority to license
   
110.02   Application and fee
   
110.03   Approval of Town Council
   
110.04   Duration of license; display required; inspections
   
110.05   Issuance; revocation of suspension
§ 110.01 AUTHORITY TO LICENSE.
   The town has the authority to impose a license fee that is reasonably
related to the administrative cost of exercising the regulating powers.
(1996 Code, § 4-1)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   All applications for a permit or license under this chapter shall be
referred by the Clerk-Treasurer to the Town Council.
(1996 Code, § 4-2)
§ 110.03 APPROVAL OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   After examination, the Town Council may grant a permit or license at the
next regular meeting, unless good cause be shown why a permit or license should
not be granted.
(1996 Code, § 4-3)
§ 110.04 DURATION OF LICENSE; DISPLAY REQUIRED; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All licenses issued under this chapter, unless specified otherwise on
the license, shall be issued for the duration of the calendar year for which
they were issued, and shall expire on December 31.
   (B)   Every person who is issued a license under the provisions of the
licensed activity is being conducted, or if there are no premises shall carry
the license while engaged in the activity for which he or she has been
licensed, and shall exhibit it to any town official or citizen upon request.
   (C)   The Town Marshal or his or her designee may inspect all places of
business under license or required to have a license.
(1996 Code, § 4-4)
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE; REVOCATION OF SUSPENSION.
   (A)    The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue licenses upon payment of the license
fees and compliance with the applicable provisions of this code, and Town
Council approval.
   (B)   Licenses issued by the town may be revoked or suspended if the person
holding the license has violated the terms or conditions of the license or the
law under which it was issued, or had conducted the business in a manner so as
to constitute a threat to public health, safety or general welfare of the
town’s citizens.
(1996 Code, § 4-5)
CHAPTER 111: SPECIFIC LICENSING REGULATIONS
Section
Generally
   
111.01   Policies for civic, educational, community events
   
111.02   Street performances, shows and exhibitions
   
111.03   Billiard tables and the like
   
111.04   Garage sales, porch sales and the like
   
111.05   Liquor retailer’s permit
   
111.06   Park pavilion rentals, garage sales and farmers market vendor permit
fees
Auctioneers, Peddlers and Itinerant Merchants
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   License required
   
111.17   Application
   
111.18   Bond
   
111.19   Issuance of license
   
111.20   License fees
   
111.21   Badge and vehicle sign; display
   
111.22   Approval
   
111.23   Stamped credentials nontransferable
   
111.24   Exceptions and exemptions
   
111.25   Selling foodstuffs; physical exam
   
111.26   Revocation of license
   
111.27   Right to appeal
   
111.28   Enforcing officer
   
111.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Application; certificate
GENERALLY
§ 111.01 POLICIES FOR CIVIC, EDUCATION, COMMUNITY EVENTS.
   (A)   The town will offer reasonable assistance and temporarily close off
streets without Town Council approval for funeral processions, to allow for
orderly ingress and egress to and from civic, educational and other similar
crowd gathering events, for parades pertaining to local school district events,
and for fire trucks and other emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The town will offer reasonable assistance and temporarily close off
streets with Town Council approval for community-sponsored street fairs,
festivals and centennials where the primary purpose is to raise funds for non-
profit community-centered projects of a charitable nature, educational events
sponsored by the local associations or commercial promotions in the downtown
areas at the request of a substantial majority of the downtown merchants.
   (C)   The town, upon Council approval, will offer reasonable assistance and
temporarily close streets for other community events which do not involve the
town in essentially private matters and are not likely to cause or result in
actions injurious to the public health, safety and welfare. No action shall be
taken upon requests until the Council has been apprised of the impacts of the
request on state highways.
(1996 Code, § 4-9)
§ 111.02 STREET PERFORMANCES, SHOWS AND EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Any person or persons who shall exhibit or participate in exhibiting
for any purpose of gain either to himself or herself or others or for any
purpose whatever within the Town of Fremont, Indiana, any theatrical
performance, show or puppets, exhibition of tumbling or performing, wire or
rope walking, dancing, sleight of hand performances of any kind, or show of any
kind or nature, without first having obtained or procured from the Town of
Fremont, Indiana, a license to do so, shall upon conviction be fined in the sum
of $25.
   (B)   Each and every performance or exhibition shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any person or persons who desiring to obtain a license as hereinbefore
specified shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Fremont, Indiana, the
sum of $4 for each and every day the performance or exhibition shall be held.
(1996 Code, § 4-10) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 BILLIARD TABLES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain a license to operate billiard tables,
pool tables, bowling alleys or any kind of gaming tables in the Town of
Fremont, County of Steuben, State of Indiana, shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town the sum of $10 for each billiard table, pool table, bowling alley
or any kind of gaming table he or she may wish to operate and shall be issued
to the applicant a license to operate tables or alleys in the town for a term
of 1 year which license shall be signed by the Clerk-Treasurer and President of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If any person in the Town of Fremont, Steuben County, State of
Indiana, owning or having the care, management or control of any billiard
table, pool table, bowling alley or any kind of gaming table and operating the
same for gain shall permit any person to play billiards, pool or any other game
at or upon a table or tables or alley without first procuring from the Town
Council a license to do so heretofore provided, shall be deemed guilty of a
violation and shall on conviction thereof be fined $10 for each offense.
(1996 Code, § 4-12)
§ 111.04 GARAGE SALES, PORCH SALES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, residence, firm or corporation to
hold or conduct a garage sale, yard sale, porch sale or similar events within
the Town of Fremont, unless a permit therefore shall first have been obtained
from the Clerk-Treasurer of Fremont.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit upon payment of $2; provided,
however, no charge shall be made if the applicant is a charitable, religious,
educational organization or merchant sidewalk sale.
   (C)   Any permit so issued shall be valid for the time specified in the
permit but in no event for more than 3 successive days.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued to any person, residence, firm or
corporation who shall have been issued 2 permits within the preceding 12
months.
   (E)   Any person, residence, firm or corporation who shall hold or conduct
any sale or event without having first obtained a permit shall upon conviction
be fined in any amount no exceeding $300.
   (F)   Garage sale, porch sale or yard sale includes all general sales, open
to the public, advertised or unadvertised, conducted from or on property within
the Town of Fremont, as defined by the zoning ordinance, for the purpose of
disposing of property including, but not limited to, all sales entitled
“garage,” “lawn,” “yard,” “attic,” “porch,” “room,” “backyard,” “patio,” “flea
market” or “rummage” sale.
(1996 Code, § 4-13)
§ 111.05 LIQUOR RETAILER'S PERMIT.
   The consent of the town is given and granted to the proper legal authorities
of the State of Indiana, to issue liquor retailer’s permits for the sale of
alcoholic, spirituous beverages to applicants otherwise duly qualified to
premises within the town consistent with all applicable state law.
(1996 Code, § 4-14)
§ 111.06 PARK PAVILION RENTALS, GARAGE SALES AND FARMERS MARKET VENDOR PERMIT
FEES.
   (A)   Park pavilion rentals. The town park pavilion rental permit fee shall
be increased from $25 to $30.
   (B)   Garage sale, yard sale and the like. The garage sale permit fee shall
be increased from $2 to $5 per permit.
   (C)   Farmers market vendor permit. The farmers market vendor permit fee
shall be increased from $20 per year to $25.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 2-16-2010)
AUCTIONEERS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle or any
other type of conveyance from place to place, from house to house or from
street to street carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise,
food products, offering and exposing them for sale or making sales and
delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling from place to
place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle,
railroad car or other vehicle or conveyance.
      (2)   However, one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction
makes deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed a PEDDLER subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   This definition, however, shall not be construed to include
commercial travelers or salespersons calling exclusively upon businesses,
professional persons, schools or public institutions for the purpose of taking
orders or selling books, equipment, supplies or services used professionally
thereby, and shall not be construed to include persons selling exclusively
products grown by these persons. The word PEDDLER shall include the words
HAWKER or HUCKSTER.
   SOLICITOR. 
      (1)   Any person traveling from place to place, from house to house or
from street to street within the town, or contacting persons by telephone
within the town, for the purpose of taking orders for the sale of goods, wares,
merchandise, magazines, books or personal property of any nature whatsoever for
a future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future
regardless of whether the person has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of
the subject of the sale or whether he or she is collecting advance payments on
the sales or who solicits monies door-to-door for non-profit or not-for-profit
organizations.
      (2)   This definition, however, shall not include commercial travelers or
salespersons calling exclusively upon businesses, professional persons, schools
or public institutions for the purpose of taking orders or selling books,
equipment, supplies or services used professionally thereby. The word SOLICITOR
shall include the word CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.
      (1)   Any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and
merchandise within the town, and who, in furtherance of this purpose, hires,
leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad
boxcar, boat, public room in hotels, motels, lodging houses, apartments, shops,
or any street, alley or other place within the town, for the exhibition and
sale of the goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or at public
auction.
      (2)   However, this definition shall not be construed to include any
person who, while occupying temporary location, does not sell from stock, but
exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery
only, and this definition shall not be construed to include any person who is a
commercial traveler or salesperson calling exclusively upon businesses,
professional persons, schools or public institutions for the purpose of taking
orders or selling books, equipment, supplies or services used professionally
thereby, and further shall not be construed to include any person selling
exclusively products grown by that person.
      (3)   A person shall be a TRANSIENT MERCHANT even though he or she
temporarily associates with a local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or
conducts the transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the
name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer. The term TRANSIENT
MERCHANT shall include the terms ITINERANT MERCHANT and ITINERANT VENDOR.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, peddler or solicitor to
engage in their respective businesses within the town without obtaining a
license in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The obtaining of a
license by an employer or principal shall in no way relieve any employee or
agent of that employer or principal of his or her legal obligation to obtain a
license, if his or her activity falls within the definition set out in §
111.15.
   (B)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall contain
the information and be in the form prescribed by the Town Council.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, peddler or solicitor to
engage in his or her respective business within the town at any time between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. The license to be issued shall show on its
face that there shall be no door-to-door solicitations after sundown or before
sunup.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.17 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applicants for a license under this chapter shall file a written
sworn application signed by the applicant or his or her agent.
   (B)   In addition to any information the Clerk-Treasurer may deem necessary
for the effective implementation of this chapter, the application shall
contain, and the applicant shall provide the following:
      (1)   The name and permanent address of the applicant;
      (2)   The local address or addresses of the applicant;
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, the names of the partners; and
if the applicant is a corporation, the name of the president of the corporation
and the state of incorporation;
      (4)   A statement as to whether the business will be conducted from fixed
locations, and if so, the addresses of those locations;
      (5)   The length of time for which the applicant is requesting the
license. (Any part of a day shall be considered a full day and licenses shall
be issued only for consecutive days);
      (6)   Fingerprints of the persons authorized by the applicant to transact
business under the license;
      (7)   A statement of the nature and character of the goods, wares or
merchandise to be sold;
      (8)   A listing of communities the applicant has conducted transient
business in within the last 6 months prior to the date of application;
      (9)   The state identification number of the business, if required; and
      (10)   A statement of whether the business holds a current Indiana retail
merchant’s certificate, and if so, the name, mailing address and main location
of the business the license is issued to, and the date of expiration if a
license is required.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.18 BOND.
   (A)   (1)   At the time of filing the application and as a part thereof, the
applicant shall file and deposit with the Clerk-Treasurer, a bond in the penal
sum of $1,000 in cash, or a bond payable to the Town of Fremont secured by a
surety having his or her principal place of business in Indiana.
      (2)   The bond and surety must be approved by the Clerk-Treasurer. The
bond must be valid for 365 days.
      (3)   The bond must be payable to the Town of Fremont who is named as
agent for service of process by both you and the surety.
      (4)   The bond proceeds are first to be for the use and benefit of the
town to pay for any fines, court costs and judgments that may be assessed
against the applicant, its agents or employees, in favor of the town for the
violation of any provisions of this town code.
      (5)   The remainder of the bond shall be for the use and benefit of any
purchasers of any goods, wares or merchandise who might have a cause of action
against the applicant rising from or out of the sale or sales.
   (B)   Unless the Clerk-Treasurer is given written notification of a pending
cause of action by the town or any person within 1 year from the date of
expiration of the license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall release the bond 1 year
after the expiration of the license.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.19 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the filing of the application and after the applicant has
established that he or she has fully complied with all provisions of this
chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer may issue to the applicant a license authorizing
the applicant to transact business as proposed in the application.
      (2)   The license shall not be transferable and shall be valid only in
the Town of Fremont.
      (3)   If the Clerk-Treasurer determines prior to issuing a license that
any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement are contained in the
application for the license, no license shall be issued.
   (B)   If an applicant proposes to transact business from more than 1
location, the applicant shall obtain a separate license, and pay the fee
therefore, for each location before transacting any business.
   (C)   (1)   If an applicant proposes to transact business in this town from
other than a fixed location, the applicant shall apply for and the Clerk-
Treasurer may grant a mobile transient merchant license.
      (2)   A separate license shall be obtained for each employee, agent or
other person transacting business for and on behalf of the applicant.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.20 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   There shall be a base annual fee for each transient merchant's license
and each mobile transient merchant's license in the amount of $200 which shall
be valid for 365 days from the date of issuance.
   (B)   In addition, the fee for a transient merchant's license shall be $10
per day for each location and for a mobile transient merchant's license shall
be $10 per day for each employee, agent or other person transacting business
for and on behalf of the applicant in the town.
   (C)   The license can be renewed for as many days as the applicant chooses
by prepayment of the sum of $10 per day.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.21 BADGE AND VEHICLE SIGN; DISPLAY.
   (A)   (1)   When any license is issued pursuant to this subchapter, the
person to whom the license is issued shall be supplied by the Clerk-Treasurer,
without additional charge, with a badge stamped or marked “Licensed Peddler”
and it shall be numbered.
      (2)   The dates which the license is valid for shall be so indicated on
the badge.
      (3)   The peddler shall keep the badge plainly displayed on the outside
of his or her coat or clothes when engaged in peddling and shall surrender it
on the expiration of the license.
   (B)   (1)   Every person licensed to hawk or peddle with a vehicle or
handcart shall be supplied by the Clerk-Treasurer, without additional charge,
with a substantial magnetic sign bearing the name “Licensed Peddler” in letters
not less than 3-1/2 inches in height and numbered.
      (2)   This sign shall be conspicuously attached and fastened to the
vehicle so as to be plainly visible by all persons doing business with the
peddler.
      (3)   The magnetic sign shall remain the property of the town and be
returned by the peddler when the license expires.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.22 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon compliance by the applicant with the provisions of §
111.17, the Town Marshal shall stamp his or her approval on the application
blank submitted by the applicant.
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall not be required to grant approval to any person
who has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude
or any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.23 STAMPED CREDENTIALS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Stamped credentials shall be nontransferable and shall entitle the holder
thereof, for the period indicated therein, unless revoked, to solicit orders
within the town for the purchase of the merchandise specified in his or her
application; however, the holder shall have his or her stamped credentials in
his or her possession at all times while soliciting orders and shall exhibit
them at any time upon request by any law enforcement officer of the town or any
purchaser or prospective purchaser.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.24 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   This subchapter shall not apply to salespersons selling goods to
retail or wholesale stores for resale.
      (2)   Any person who has, and has had for the preceding 12 months, a
regular place of business within the town, and any person employed by or
soliciting for any person who has, and has had for the preceding 12 months, a
regular place of business within the town, shall not be required to register
before soliciting orders.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sales made to
dealers by commercial travelers or selling agents in the usual course of
business, or to sheriffs or other public officers selling goods, wares and
merchandise according to law, nor to bona-fide assignees or receivers appointed
in this state selling goods, wares and merchandise for the benefit of
creditors.
   (C)   In addition to any other exemptions allowed by this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Persons who sell goods, wares or merchandise for and on behalf of
any not-for-profit organization when the proceeds of sales inure to the benefit
of a not-for-profit organization, if the not-for-profit corporation is located
within Steuben County;
      (2)   Any person, individual, co-partner, limited liability company or
corporation which grows the goods, wares or merchandise that is sold or offered
for sale;
      (3)   A person who makes crafts or items by hand and sells them or offers
them for sale;
      (4)   An auctioneer who is licensed under I.C. 25-6.1;
      (5)   An organization that is exempt from the Indiana gross retail tax
under I.C. 6-2.5-5-26 (a charitable organization);
      (6)   A person who:
         (a)   Organizes;
         (b)   Sells merchandise;
         (c)   Offers to sell merchandise; or
         (d)   Exhibits at a trade show or convention.
      (7)   A person who holds a registered retail merchant's certificate under
I.C. 6-2.5-8.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.25 SELLING FOODSTUFFS; PHYSICAL EXAM.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
solicitor or itinerant merchant who sells fruit, vegetables, bread, pastries or
other foodstuffs, which have not been canned shall, before receiving their
license or certificate as provided in §
111.19, present to the Clerk-Treasurer the certificate of a reputable doctor of
medicine to the approval of the Town Council certifying that the persons
handling the same are free from all venereal or transmittable diseases and
showing that the examination has been made within 30 days from the date of
receiving the license, and a new certificate shall be placed on file with the
Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days from the date of the first certificate so long
as the party shall continue to do business under the license.
   (B)   No person shall transact any business of selling foodstuffs in the
town under a solicitor's or itinerant merchant's license unless they shall have
a physical examination certificate which is dated not more than 30 days
therebefore.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.26 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license issued pursuant to this subchapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and a hearing thereon, for any of the following
causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed under this chapter in an unlawful
manner or in a manner so as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the revocation shall be given to the address or addresses as
provided in the application.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.27 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Clerk-Treasurer or the
Town Marshal in regard to the denial of a license as provided for in §
111.19 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council.
   (B)   Appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision by the Clerk-Treasurer or the Town Marshal has been
mailed to the address provided in the application, a written statement setting
forth the grounds for the appeal.
   (C)   The Council shall set the time and place for a hearing on the appeal,
and notice of the hearing shall be given to the person in the same manner
unless the Town Council is provided with a different address to use.
   (D)   The order of the Council on the appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.28 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy or any other person designated by the
Town Council, such as the Town Manager or Clerk-Treasurer or the Town Council
itself, is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with the provisions
of §§
111.15 et seq. shall be subject to a fine of $250 per day. A violation may be
enforced as set forth below by the Town Marshal issuing a citation. The
violation can be processed through the Town Court or the Clerk-Treasurer's
office at the discretion of the Town Council. Each day a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate violation during any 1 licensing period.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 4-10-2000)
Editor’s note:
   There are 2 separate forms in this appendix. The first is an application
that is 5 pages long. The second is a certificate that is 1 page long.
APPENDIX A. APPLICATION; CERTIFICATE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-910.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-912.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-914.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-916.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-918.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-920.jpg]
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose; findings and rationale
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Issuance of license
   
112.05   Fees
   
112.06   Inspection
   
112.07   Expiration and renewal of license
   
112.08   Suspension
   
112.09   Revocation
   
112.10   Hearing; license denial, suspension, revocation; appeal
   
112.11   Transfer of license
   
112.12   Hours of operation
   
112.13   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films on
premises
   
112.14   Loitering; monitoring requirements
   
112.15   Remedies
   
112.16   Prohibited conduct
   
112.17   Scienter required to prove violation or business licensee liability
   
112.18   Failure of town to meet deadline not to risk applicant/licensee rights
   
112.19   Location of sexually oriented businesses
§ 112.01 PURPOSE; FINDINGS AND RATIONALE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the town, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the town. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (B)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the Town Council, and on findings, interpretations, and narrowing constructions
incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. ZJ. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 541
U.S. 774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425
(2002); City of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v.
Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres,
427 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991);
California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); N.Y. State Liquor Authority v.
Bellanca, 452 U.S. 714 (1981); Sewell v. Georgia, 435 U.S. 982 (1978); FW/PBS,
Inc. v. City of Dallas, 493 U.S. 215 (1990); City of Dallas v. Stanglin, 490
U.S. 19 (1989); and Uniontown Retail #36, LLC v. Bd. of Comm’rs of Jackson
County, 950 N.E,2d 332 (Ind. Ct. App. 2011); Plaza Group Properties, LLC v.
Spencer County Plan Comm’n, 911 N.E.2d 1264 (Ind. Ct. App. 2009); Plaza Group
Properties, LLC v. Spencer County Plan Comm’n, 877 N.E.2d 877 (Ind. Ct. App.
2007); Ben’s Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003);
Andy’s Restaurant & Lounge, Inc. v. City of Gary, 466 F.3d 550 (7th Cir. 2006);
Blue Canary Corp. v. City of Milwaukee, 270 F.3d 1156 (7th Cir. 2001); Schultz
v. City of Cumberland, 228 F.3d 831 (7th Cir. 2000); Matneyv. County of
Kenosha, 86 F.3d 692 (7th Cir. 1996); Berg v. Health & Hospital Corp., 865 F.2d
797 (7th Cir. 1989); DiMa Corp, v. Town of Hallie, 185 F.3d 823 (7th Cir.
1999); Graff v. City of Chicago, 9 F.3d 1309 (7th Cir. 1993); North Avenue
Novelties, Inc. v. City of Chicago, 88 F.3d 441 (7th Cir. 1996); Chulchian v.
City of Indianapolis, 633 F.2d 27 (7th Cir. 1980); Illinois One News, Inc. v.
City of Marshall, 477 F.3d 461 (7th Cir. 2007); G.M. Enterprises, Inc. v. Town
of St. Joseph, 350 F.3d 631 (7th Cir. 2003); Metro Pony, LLC v. City of
Metropolis, 2012 WL 1389656 (S.D. Id. Apr. 20,2012); Imaginary Images, Inc. v.
Evans, 612 F.3d 736 (4th Cir. 2010); LLEH, Inc. v, Wichita County, 289 F.3d 358
(5th Cir. 2002); Ocello v. Koster, 354 S.W.3d 187 (Mo. 2011); 84 Video/
Newsstand, Inc. v. Sartini, 2011 WL 3904097 (6th Cir. Sept. 7, 2011);
Flanigan’s Enters., Inc. v. Fulton County, 596 F.3d 1265 (11th Cir. 2010); East
Brooks Books, Inc. v. Shelby County, 588 F.3d 360 (6th Cir. 2009); Entm’t
Prods., Inc. v. Shelby County, 588 F.3d 372 (6th Cir. 2009); Sensations, Inc.
v. City of Grand Rapids, 526 F.3d 291 (6th Cir. 2008); World Wide Video of
Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Peek-a-Boo
Lounge v. Manatee County, 630 F.3d 1346 (11th Cir. 2011); Daytona Grand, Inc.
v. City of Daytona Beach, 490 F.3d 860 (11th Cir. 2007); Williams v. Morgan,
478 F.3d 1316 (11th Cir. 2007); Jacksonville Property Rights Ass’n, Inc. v.
City of Jacksonville, 635 F.3d 1266 (11th Cir. 2011); H&A Land Corp. v. City
ofKennedale, 480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007); Hang On, Inc. v. City of Arlington,
65 F.3d 1248 (5th Cir. 1995); Fantasy Ranch, Inc. v. City of Arlington, 459
F.3d 546 (5th Cir. 2006); Richland Boohnart, Inc. v. Knox County, 555 F.3d 512
(6th Cir. 2009); Bigg Wolf Discount Video Movie Sales, Inc. v. Montgomery
County, 256 F. Supp. 2d 385 (D. Md. 2003); Richland Boohnart, Inc. v. Nichols,
137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir. 1998); Spokane Arcade, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 75 F.3d
663 (9th Cir. 1996); City of New York v. Hommes, 724 N.E.2d 368 (N.Y. 1999);
Taylor v. State, No. 01-01-00505-CR, 2002 WL 1722154 (Tex. App. July 25, 2002);
Fantasyland Video, Inc. v. County of San Diego, 505 F.3d 996 (9th Cir. 2007);
Gammoh v. City of La Habra, 395 F.3d 1114 (9th Cir. 2005); Z.J. Gifts D-4,
L.L.C. v. City of Littleton, Civil Action No. 99-N-1696, Memorandum Decision
and Order (D. Colo. March 31, 2001); People ex rel. Deters v. The Lion’s Den,
Inc., Case No. 04-CH-26, Modified Permanent Injunction Order (111. Fourth
Judicial Circuit, Effingham County, July 13, 2005); Reliable Consultants, Inc.
v. City of Kennedale, No. 4:05-CV-166-A, Findings of Fact and Conclusions of
Law (N.D. Tex. May 26,2005); and based upon reports concerning secondary
effects occurring in and around sexually oriented businesses, including, but
not limited to, Austin, Texas - 1986; Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden
Grove, California - 1991; Houston, Texas - 1983, 1997; Phoenix, Arizona - 1979,
1995-98; Tucson, Arizona - 1990; Chattanooga, Tennessee -1999-2003; Los
Angeles, California - 1977; Whittier, California - 1978; Spokane, Washington -
2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota - 1994; Littleton, Colorado - 2004; Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma - 1986; Dallas, Texas - 1997; Ft. Worth, Texas - 2004; Kennedale,
Texas - 2005; Greensboro, North Carolina - 2003; Amariilo, Texas - 1977;
Jackson County, Missouri - 2008; Louisville, Kentucky - 2004; New York, New
York Times Square - 1994; the Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group On
The Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of
Minnesota); Dallas, Texas - 2007; “Rural Hotspots: The Case of Adult
Businesses,” 19 Criminal Justice Policy Review 153 (2008); “Correlates of
Current Transactional Sex among a Sample of Female Exotic Dancers in Baltimore,
MD,” Journal of Urban Health (2011); “Stripclubs According to Strippers:
Exposing Workplace Sexual Violence,” by Kelly Holsopple, Program Director,
Freedom and Justice Center for Prostitution Resources, Minneapolis, Minnesota;
“Sexually Oriented Businesses: An Insider’s View,” by David Sherman, presented
to the Michigan House Committee on Ethics and Constitutional Law, Jan. 12,
2000; Memphis, Tennessee - 2005-2011; and Assorted Reports and Affidavits
Concerning Secondary Effects, the Town Council finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter,
and sexual assault and exploitation;
      (2)   Sexually oriented businesses should be separated from sensitive
land uses to minimize the impact of their secondary effects upon such uses, and
should be separated from other sexually oriented businesses, to minimize the
secondary effects associated with such uses and to prevent an unnecessary
concentration of sexually oriented businesses in one area; and
      (3)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the Town has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects,
which is the Town’s rationale for this chapter, exists independent of any
comparative analysis between sexually oriented and non-sexually oriented
businesses. Additionally, the Town’s interest in regulating sexually oriented
businesses extends to preventing future secondary effects of either current or
future sexually oriented businesses that may locate in the Town. The Town finds
that the cases and documentation relied on in this chapter are reasonably
believed to be relevant to said secondary effects.
   (C)   The Town hereby adopts and incorporates herein its stated findings and
legislative record related to the adverse secondary effects of sexually
oriented businesses, including the judicial opinions and reports related to
such secondary effects.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined in the sections
hereunder shall have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to them unless
a different meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which, as
one of its principal business activities, offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration any 1 or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, compact discs, digital video discs, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.” A “principal
business activity” exists where the commercial establishment meets any one or
more of the following criteria:
      (1)   At least 35% of the establishment’s displayed merchandise consists
of said items; or
      (2)   At least 35% of the retail value (defined as the price charged to
customers) of the establishment’s displayed merchandise consists of said items;
or
      (3)   At least 35% of the establishment’s revenues derive from the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of said items; or
      (4)   The establishment maintains at least 35% of its floor space for the
display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways used to access
said items shall be included in “floor space” maintained for the display, sale,
or rental of said items); or
      (5)   The establishment maintains at least 500 square feet of its floor
space for the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways
used to access said items shall be included in “floor space” maintained for the
display, sale, or rental of said items); or
      (6)   The establishment regularly offers for sale or rental at least
2,000 of said items; or
      (7)   The establishment regularly features said items and regularly
advertises itself or holds itself out, in any medium, by using “adult,”
“adults-only,’ “XXX,” “sex,” “erotic,” or substantially similar language, as an
establishment that caters to adult sexual interests; or
      (8)   The establishment maintains an “adult arcade,” which means any
place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or
slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still
or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are
regularly maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any
one time, and where the images so displayed are characterized by their emphasis
upon matter exhibiting “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas.”
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which displays:
      (1)   Persons who appear nude or semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly shown to more than
five persons for any form of consideration.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an item.
As applied in  this chapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually
oriented business by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials rated NC-
17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, and EMPLOYMENT.  Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a full
time, part time, or contract basis, regardless of whether the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, lessee, or otherwise.
EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
   FLOOR SPACE. The floor area inside an establishment that is visible or
accessible to patrons for any reason, excluding restrooms.
   INFLUENTIAL INTEREST. Any of the following:
      (1)   The actual power to operate the sexually oriented business or
control the operation, management or policies of the sexually oriented business
or legal entity which operates the sexually oriented business;
      (2)   Ownership of a financial interest of 30% or more of a business or
of any class of voting securities of a business; or
      (3)   Holding an office (e.g., president, vice president, secretary,
treasurer, managing member, managing director, and the like) in a legal entity
which operates the sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license. In the
case of an employee, it shall mean the person in whose name the sexually
oriented business employee license has been issued.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, vulva,
or anus with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple and
areola.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of a sexually oriented business who
manages, supervises, or controls the business or a portion thereof. A person
may be found to be an OPERATOR regardless of whether such person is an owner,
part owner, or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
sexually oriented business license.
   REGULARLY. The consistent and repeated doing of an act on an ongoing basis.
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDITY. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or  female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breasts
exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or similar wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A place where persons regularly appear in a state of
semi-nudity for money or any form of consideration in order to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons. This definition does not apply to any place where persons
appearing in a state of semi-nudity did so in a class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any 3 dimensional object designed for stimulation of the male
or female human genitals, anus, buttocks, female breast, or for sadomasochistic
use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices commonly known as
dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, cock rings, anal beads, butt plugs, nipple
clamps, and physical representations of the human genital organs. Nothing in
this definition shall be construed to include devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices. This definition shall not be construed to include any pharmacy,
drug store, medical clinic, any establishment primarily dedicated to providing
medical or healthcare products or services, or any establishment that does not
regularly advertise itself or hold itself out, in any medium, as an
establishment that caters to adult sexual interests.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment that as one of its primary
purposes offers for any form of consideration a place where two or more persons
may congregate, associate, or consort for the purpose of engaging in specified
sexual activities or where one or more of the person is nude or semi-nude. This
definition shall not include a licensed health care facility, or establishment
where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar
professional person licensed by the state engages in medically approved and
recognized sexual therapy.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An “adult bookstore or adult video store,” an
“adult cabaret,” an “adult motion picture theater,” a “semi-nude model studio,”
a “sexual device shop “ or a “sexual encounter establishment”.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal;
      (2)   The appearance of the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male or female
genitals, or nipple of the female breast; or
      (3)   A state of dress which fails to cover opaquely the cleft of the
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, or nipple of the female breast.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following specified crimes for which
less than five years has elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of
release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date:
      (1)   Rape, sexual assault, public indecency, statutory rape, rape of a
child, sexual exploitation of a minor, indecent exposure;
      (2)   Prostitution, patronizing prostitution, promoting prostitution;
      (3)   Obscenity;
      (4)   Dealing in controlled substances;
      (5)   Racketeering, tax evasion, money laundering;
      (6)   Any attempt, solicitation, or conspiracy to commit one of the
foregoing offenses; or
      (7)   Any offense in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate act(s)
been committed in Indiana, would have constituted any of the foregoing
offenses.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   The intentional fondling or other erotic touching of human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus, or female breast;
      (2)   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation, masturbation, sodomy, sadomasochism, or bestiality; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in (1) and (2) above.
   TOWN. Fremont, Indiana.
   TOWN COURT. The Town Court of Fremont, Indiana.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL of a sexually oriented business means any
of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room, booth, or area where a patron of a sexually oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, videocassette,
digital video disc, or other video reproduction.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Business license. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
sexually oriented business in the town without a valid sexually oriented
business license.
   (B)   Employee license. It shall be unlawful for any person to be an
“employee,” as defined in this chapter, of a sexually oriented business in the
town without a valid sexually oriented business employee license, except that a
person who is a licensee under a valid sexually oriented business license shall
not be required to also obtain a sexually oriented business employee license.
   (C)   Application. An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or
a sexually oriented business employee license shall file in person at the
office of the Town Manager a completed application made on a form provided by
the Town Manager. A sexually oriented business may designate an individual with
an influential interest in the business to file its application for a sexually
oriented business license in person on behalf of the business. The application
shall be signed as required by division (D) of this section and shall be
notarized. An application shall be considered complete when it contains, for
each person required to sign the application, the information and/or items
required in this division (C), accompanied by the appropriate licensing fee:
      (1)   The applicant’s full legal name and any other names used by the
applicant in the preceding 5 years;
      (2)   Current business address or another mailing address for the
applicant;
      (3)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver’s license, a picture
identification document containing the applicant’s date of birth issued by a
governmental agency, or a copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture
identification document issued by a governmental agency;
      (4)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
business name, location, legal description, mailing address and phone number of
the sexually oriented business;
      (5)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to
receive service of process;
      (6)   A statement of whether an applicant has been convicted of or has
pled guilty or nolo contendere to a specified criminal activity as defined in
this chapter, and if so, each specified criminal activity involved, including
the date, place, and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction
and release from confinement, where applicable;
      (7)   A statement of whether any sexually oriented business in which an
applicant has had an influential interest, has, in the previous 5 years (and at
a time during which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (b)   Been subject to a court order of closure or padlocking; and
      (8)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business is
located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business and a
statement of floor area visible or accessible to patrons for any reason,
excluding restrooms. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared
but shall be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus 6 inches. Applicants
who are required to comply with the stage, booth, and/or room configuration
requirements of this chapter shall submit a diagram indicating that the setup
and configuration of the premises meets the requirements of the applicable
regulations. The Town Manager may waive the requirements of this division (C)
(8) for a renewal application if the applicant adopts a legal description and a
sketch or diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (9)   The information provided pursuant to this division (C) shall be
supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
Town Manager within 10 working days of a change of circumstances which would
render the information originally submitted false or incomplete.
   (D)   Signature. A person who seeks a sexually oriented business employee
license under this section shall sign the application for a license. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license under this section is an
individual, he shall sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license is other than an
individual, each person with an influential interest in the sexually oriented
business or in a legal entity that controls the sexually oriented business
shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee
if a license is granted.
   (E)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the office
of the Town Manager on a confidential basis, and such information may be
disclosed only as may be required, and only to the extent required, by
governing law or court order. Any information protected by the right to privacy
as recognized by state or federal law shall be redacted prior to such
disclosure.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Business license. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually oriented business license, the Town Manager shall immediately issue a
temporary license to the applicant if the completed application is from a
preexisting sexually oriented business that is lawfully operating in the town
and the completed application, on its face, indicates that the applicant is
entitled to an annual sexually oriented business license. The temporary license
shall expire upon the final decision of the town to deny or grant an annual
license. Within 20 days of the filing of a completed sexually oriented business
license application, the Town Manager shall either issue a license to the
applicant or issue a written notice of intent to deny a license to the
applicant. The Town Manager shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is
not in compliance with the location requirements of this chapter;
      (5)   Any sexually oriented business in which an applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous 5 years (and at a time during which
the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (b)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking; or
      (6)   An applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Employee license. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually oriented business employee license, the Town Manager shall immediately
issue a temporary license to the applicant if the applicant seeks licensure to
work in a licensed sexually oriented business and the completed application, on
its face, indicates that the applicant is entitled to an annual sexually
oriented business employee license. The temporary license shall expire upon the
final decision of the town to deny or grant an annual license. Within 20 days
of the filing of a completed sexually oriented business employee license
application, the Town Manager shall either issue a license to the applicant or
issue a written notice of intent to deny a license to the applicant. The Town
Manager shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid;
      (4)   Any sexually oriented business in which the applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous 5 years (and at a time during which
the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (b)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking; or
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
the licensee(s), the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually
oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business. The sexually
oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be read at any time
that the business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. A sexually
oriented business employee shall keep the employee’s license on his or her
person or on the premises where the licensee is then working or performing.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.05 FEES.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for sexually oriented business
licenses and sexually oriented business employee licenses shall be as follows;
$100 for the initial fee for a sexually oriented business license and $50 for
annual renewal; $50 for the initial sexually oriented business employee license
and $25 for annual renewal.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.06 INSPECTION.
   Sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees shall
permit the Town Manager and his or her agents to inspect, from time to time on
an occasional basis, the portions of the sexually oriented business premises
where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the
specific regulations of this chapter, during those times when the sexually
oriented business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. This section
shall be narrowly construed by the Town to authorize reasonable inspections of
the licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but not to authorize a
harassing or excessive pattern of inspections.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.07 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Application for renewal of an annual license should be made at least
90 days before the expiration date of the current annual license, and when made
less than 90 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the current
license will not be affected.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.08 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend a
sexually oriented business license for a period not to exceed 30 days if the
sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated this
chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any other person
to violate this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend a
sexually oriented business employee license for a period not to exceed 30 days
if the employee licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall issue a written notice of intent to revoke a
sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee
license, as applicable, if the licensee knowingly or recklessly violates this
chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any other person
to violate this chapter and a suspension of the licensee’s license has become
effective within the previous 12-month period.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall issue a written notice of intent to revoke a
sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee
license, as applicable, if:
      (1)   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the sexually oriented business license or the sexually oriented
business employee license;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises of the
sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (4)   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the license was finally suspended or
revoked;
      (5)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specified sexual activity or specified criminal activity to occur in or on the
premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (6)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of 18 years to appear in a semi-nude condition or in a state of nudity on
the premises of the sexually oriented business.
   (C)   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license, provided that, if any conviction which
serves as a basis of a license revocation is overturned or reversed on appeal,
that conviction shall be treated as null and of no effect for revocation
purposes.
   (D)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in this
chapter, the Town revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for 1 year
and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license or
sexually oriented business employee license for 1 year from the date revocation
becomes effective.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.10 HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   When the Town Manager issues a written notice of intent to deny,
suspend, or revoke a license, the Town Manager shall immediately send such
notice, which shall include the specific grounds under this chapter for such
action, to the applicant or licensee (respondent) by personal delivery or
certified mail. The notice shall be directed to the most current business
address or other mailing address on file with the Town Manager for the
respondent. The notice shall also set forth the following:
      (1)   The respondent shall have 10 days after the delivery of the written
notice to submit, at the office of the Town Manager, a written request for a
hearing. If the respondent does not request a hearing within said 10 days, the
Town Manager’s written notice shall become a final denial, suspension, or
revocation, as the case may be, on the thirtieth day after it is issued, and
shall be subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section.
      (2)   If the respondent does make a written request for a hearing within
said 10 days, then the Town Manager shall, within 10 days after the submission
of the request, send a notice to the respondent indicating the date, time, and
place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted not less than 10 days nor
more than 20 days after the date that the hearing notice is issued. The town
shall provide for the hearing to be transcribed.
      (3)   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to
present all of respondent’s arguments and to be represented by counsel, present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of the Town
Manager’s witnesses. The Town Manager shall also be represented by counsel, and
shall bear the burden of proving the grounds for denying, suspending, or
revoking the license. The hearing shall take no longer than 2 days, unless
extended at the request of the respondent to meet the requirements of due
process and proper administration of justice. The Town Court shall issue a
final written decision, including specific reasons for the decision pursuant to
this chapter, to the respondent within 5 days after the hearing.
      (4)   If the decision is to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, the
decision shall advise the respondent of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective
until the thirtieth day after it is rendered. If the Town Court’s decision
finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of the
license, the Town Court shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of the
decision, order the Town Manager to immediately withdraw the intent to deny,
suspend, or revoke the license and to notify the respondent in writing by
certified mail of such action. If the respondent is not yet licensed, the Town
Manager shall contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   (B)   If any court action challenging a licensing decision is initiated, the
town shall prepare and transmit to the court a transcript of the hearing within
30 days after receiving written notice of the filing of the court action. The
town shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of the action,
shall comply with any expedited schedule set by the court, and shall facilitate
prompt judicial review of the proceedings. The following shall apply to any
sexually oriented business that is lawfully operating as a sexually oriented
business, or any sexually oriented business employee that is lawfully employed
as a sexually oriented business employee, on the date on which the completed
business or employee application, as applicable, is filed with the Town
Manager:
      (1)   Upon the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain,
or otherwise enjoin the town’s enforcement of any denial, suspension, or
revocation of a temporary license or annual license, the Town Manager shall
immediately issue the respondent a provisional license. The provisional license
shall allow the respondent to continue operation of the sexually oriented
business or to continue employment as a sexually oriented business employee and
will expire upon the court’s entry of a judgment on the respondent’s appeal or
other action to restrain or otherwise enjoin the town’s enforcement.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the sexually oriented
business license application.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business between
1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday, and between 3:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.13 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS ON
PREMISES.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business which exhibits in a booth or viewing room on the premises, through any
mechanical or electronic image-producing device, a film, video cassette,
digital video disc, or other video reproduction characterized by an emphasis on
the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall
comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall
contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all operator’s
stations, booths or viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, and restrooms,
and shall designate all portions of the premises in which patrons will not be
permitted. Restrooms shall not contain equipment for displaying films, video
cassettes, digital video discs, or other video reproductions. The diagram shall
also designate the place at which the license will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn
to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The Town Manager may waive the foregoing diagram
for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on
the licensed premises.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (a)   That the occupancy of viewing rooms less than 150 square feet is
limited to one person.
         (b)   That specified sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
         (c)   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
         (d)   That violators will be required to leave the premises.
         (e)   That violations of these regulations are unlawful.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in division (A)(4)(a) though (d) of this section.
      (6)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator’s station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator’s station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the
premises have 2 or more operator’s stations designated, then the interior of.
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one of the operator’s stations.
The view required in this paragraph must be by direct line of sight from the
operator’s station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one
employee is on duty and situated in each operator’s station at all times that
any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it
shall also be the duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in this paragraph remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or enclosures at
all times that any patron is present on the premises.
      (7)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that no porous
materials are used for any wall, floor, or seat in any booth or viewing room.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under divisions (A)(1)
through (A)(7) of this section to knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that
duty.
   (C)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly enter or remain in a viewing
room less than 150 square feet in area that is occupied by any other patron.
   (D)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly be or remain within one foot
of any other patron while in a viewing room that is 150 square feet or larger
in area.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly make any hole or opening
between viewing rooms.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.14 LOITERING AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to:
      (1)   Ensure that at least two conspicuous signs stating that no
loitering is permitted on the premises are posted on the premises; and
      (2)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on the premises by visually inspecting the premises at least once every
90 minutes or inspecting the premises by use of video cameras and monitors. If
used, video cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at all times that
the premises are open for business. The monitors shall be installed within an
operator’s station.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall erect a fence, wall, or similar
barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the establishment
from being visible from a public right of way.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.15 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any premises on which repeated violations of this chapter occur shall
constitute a public nuisance. For purposes of this chapter, “repeated
violations” shall mean three or more violations of this chapter within a 1 year
period dating from the time of any violation.
   (B)   The town’s legal counsel is hereby authorized to institute civil
proceedings to enjoin, restrain, or correct violations of this chapter. Such
proceedings shall be brought in the name of the town, provided, however, that
nothing in this section and no action taken hereunder, shall be held to exclude
such proceedings as may be authorized by other provisions of this chapter, or
any of the laws in force in the town, or to exempt anyone violating this code
or any part of the said laws from any liability which may be incurred.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.16 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No person shall knowingly or recklessly allow a person under the age of 18
years to be or remain on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.17 SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LICENSEE LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a reckless mental state is
necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee’s license shall be imputed to the sexually oriented business
licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or for purposes
of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer, director, or
general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or controlled the
operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly allowed such act to
occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability that the person to
whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.18 FAILURE OF TOWN TO MEET DEADLINE NOT TO RISK APPLICANT/ LICENSEE
RIGHTS.
   In the event that a town official is required to act or to do a thing
pursuant to this chapter within a prescribed time, and fails to act or to do
such thing within the time prescribed, said failure shall not prevent the
exercise of constitutional rights of an applicant or licensee. If the act
required of the town official under this chapter, and not completed in the time
prescribed, includes approval of condition(s) necessary for approval by the
town of an applicant or licensee’s application for a sexually oriented business
license or a sexually oriented business employee’s license (including a
renewal), the license shall be deemed granted and the business or employee
allowed to commence operations or employment the day after the deadline for the
Town’s action has passed.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 112.19 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business must be located in an area in compliance
with the Fremont Zoning Ordinance. For sexually oriented businesses without a
liquor license, it shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be
operated a sexually oriented business in the town, unless the sexually oriented
business is at least 750 feet from the nearest property line of every
residence, school, church, or other sexually oriented business.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, measurements shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest
part of any parcel containing a sexually oriented business to the closest part
of any parcel containing a residence, school, church or other sexually oriented
business.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: REGULATION OF CERTAIN COMMERCIAL SIDEWALK USE
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Enforcing officer
   
113.03   Prohibited commercial use of sidewalks
   
113.04   Exemptions
   
113.05   Permit to place commercial goods on a town sidewalk
   
113.06   Safety orders
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. The area of town bounded by the property lines
along either side of Spring St., Mill St., Albion St. and Coffin St.
   ENFORCING OFFICER. Any person authorized to enforce this chapter by §
113.02.
   FIRST WEEKEND. The Thursday through Sunday after the first Monday of each
month.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, company, association, organization,
partnership, limited liability company, business trust, or corporation; the
term includes the person's employers, employees, independent contractors,
agents, lessors or lessees.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 113.02 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Town Marshal, his or her deputy, the Street Superintendent, the Town
Manager, the Clerk-Treasurer, the Town Council itself, or any other individual
designated by ordinance or resolution of the Town Council, is hereby authorized
to issue a citation to a person after the enforcing officer has reason to
believe that the person has violated the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 113.03 PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL USE OF SIDEWALKS.
   No person may place or keep commercial goods on or above a town sidewalk in
the Central Business District:
   (A)   Without first obtaining and maintaining public liability or general
comprehensive insurance, approved as to form by the Town Attorney, in the
minimum amount of $50,000 that covers injury or damage to persons of property
as a result of such activity; nor
   (B)   Without first obtaining and maintaining a current town permit to do
so, except as otherwise allowed in this chapter; nor
   (C)   Without displaying a current town permit to do so behind a ground-
floor outer window that faces the sidewalk where goods are kept; nor
   (D)   Beyond the area immediately in front of his or her place of business;
nor
   (E)   In breach of the provisions of this chapter; nor
   (F)   In violation of any lawful order of an enforcing officer.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 113.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   No permit is required for a person to place or keep commercial goods on or
above a town sidewalk in the Central Business District for the following
reasons or during the following times:
   (A)   On a temporary basis for loading or unloading;
   (B)   On a temporary basis on behalf of a non-profit organization;
   (C)   For goods being then currently held by a person in hand (for example,
a waiter at a restaurant bringing food to guests at a sidewalk table); or
   (D)   During the Fremont Music Fest.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 113.05 PERMIT TO PLACE COMMERCIAL GOODS ON A TOWN SIDEWALK.
   A person who desires to place or keep commercial goods on or above a town
sidewalk in the Central Business District may apply to the Clerk-Treasurer for
a permit to do so. The Clerk- Treasurer shall issue such a permit, subject to
the following limitations:
   (A)   The permit shall require the applicant to provide:
      (1)   The name and address of any person who has an ownership interest in
such business;
      (2)   The full legal name and address of the business; and
      (3)   A signed statement agreeing to operate the business strictly in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter and indemnifying the town
against all loss as a result of issuing such a permit.
   (B)   The permit shall only allow the permittee to place or keep commercial
goods on or above a town sidewalk on the first weekend of each month.
   (C)   No more than two permits shall be issued to a person each year.
   (D)   Each permit shall last five days; provided, however, that no permit
shall extend beyond the end of the calendar year in which it is granted.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer may not charge a fee for such a permit.
   (F)   The permittee has submitted proof of insurance as required by this
chapter.
   (G)   The permittee has not been subject to the revocation of a prior permit
under this chapter within the last six months.
   (H)   The Clerk-Treasurer may revoke or deny any permit upon a finding of:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application or in conjunction with an enforcing officer's investigation;
      (2)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (3)   The person's conviction of any felony or of a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude; or
      (4)   Unlawful business practices, or those that constitute a breach of
the peace.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 113.06 SAFETY ORDERS.
   When an enforcing officer reasonably believes that the placement or keeping
of goods by a person poses an immediate danger to the health and/or safety of
passers-by, the enforcing officer may immediately revoke the person's permit
under this chapter and order the person to clear the sidewalk of the person's
goods.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of $250 per violation, plus court costs, if any.
   (B)   Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (C)   An enforcing officer who notes a violation may issue a citation that
either enumerates the section(s) and subsection(s) violated or a brief
description of the violation.
   (D)   The citation should also summon and order the suspected violator to
appear at Town Court with the time and date of the court hearing provided.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-17-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
   
130.   CURFEWS
CHAPTER 130: CURFEWS
Section
   
130.01   General curfews for minors
   
130.02   Responsible person
   
130.03   Enforcement
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 GENERAL CURFEWS FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Curfews; local option: It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or
17 years of age to be in a public place:
      (1)   Between 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday;
      (2)   After 9:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
from October 1 to April 1 and after 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday from April 1 to October 1; or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 9:00 p.m. on any day.
   (C)   This section does not apply to child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult, specified by his or her parent, guardian
or custodian; or
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   Any other organized community sponsored events such as baseball
league or other organized sporting event and activities such as 4-H fair which
would have similar supervision and sponsorship as a school sponsored event;
         (c)   Any other activity that is:
            1.   Organized or sponsored; and
            2.   Supervised by a responsible group, entity, town or
organization; including, but not limited to, religious events, school events
and political or civic events.
         (d)   An emergency errand directed by his or her parents or guardian
or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor; or
         (e)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, including the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and
right of assembly.
(1996 Code, § 6-29) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 RESPONSIBLE PERSON.
   No parent, guardian or other adult person having the legal custody, control
or responsibility for the whereabouts and acts of any person under 17 years of
age shall permit or allow the person under 17 years of age to be or remain
upon, in or about any public place, building, street or alley after the hours
specified in §
130.01.
(1996 Code, § 6-30) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In the enforcement of this chapter, no person under 17 years of age
who is apprehended for a violation of §
130.01 hereof shall be confined in any jail or other place of detention except
as may be necessary to restrain or detain that person until the parent,
guardian or other legal custodian can be notified and the physical custody of
the person under 17 years of age can be returned to the parent or parents,
guardian or other legal custodian.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated this section; and
      (2)   The child was not engaged in activities that constitute an
exception under §
130.01(C).
(1996 Code, § 6-31) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
130.01 through
130.03 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $25 for each offense.
(1996 Code, § 6-32)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
   
150.   SUBDIVISIONS
   
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Title and policy
   
150.002   Usage
   
150.003   Definitions
   
150.004   Purpose, authority and jurisdiction
   
150.005   Enactment
   
150.006   Interpretation; conflict
   
150.007   Saving provision; repealer; amendments; conditions
   
150.008   Resubdivision of land
   
150.009   Vacation of plats; variances; enforcement; violation
Application and Approval Procedures
   
150.020   General procedures
   
150.021   Sketch plan application procedure; primary approval
   
150.022   Major subdivisions
   
150.023   Minor subdivisions
   
150.024   Exempt divisions
Requirements for Improvements, Reservations and Design
   
150.035   General improvements
   
150.036   Lot improvements
   
150.037   Streets
   
150.038   Drainage and storm sewers
   
150.039   Water facilities
   
150.040   Sewer facilities
   
150.041   Sidewalks
   
150.042   Utilities
   
150.043   Public uses
   
150.044   Preservation of natural features and amenities
   
150.045   Nonresidential subdivisions
Assurance for Completion of Improvements
   
150.060   Improvements and performance bond
   
150.061   Inspection of public improvements
   
150.062   Maintenance of public improvements
   
150.063   Issuance of building permits
Specifications for Documents to be Submitted
   
150.075   Sketch plan
   
150.076   Preliminary plat
   
150.077   Construction plans
   
150.078   Final subdivision plat
   
150.079   Exempt I divisions
   
150.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Required forms and certificates
   
Appendix B: Design standards for streets
   
Appendix C: Lot and frontage examples
   
Appendix D: Yard areas and street improvements
   
Appendix E: Cross sections for streets
   
Appendix F: Flood plain delineation
   
Appendix G: Specifications for documents to be submitted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 TITLE AND POLICY.
   (A)   These provisions shall hereafter be known and cited as the Subdivision
Control Chapter of the Town of Fremont.
   (B)   (1)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town to consider
the subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat
as subject to the official comprehensive plan and related policies (such as
those embodied in the town Zoning Chapter) for the orderly and efficient
development of the town.
      (2)   (a)   Land to be subdivided shall be of a character that it can be
developed without peril to health or peril from flood, fire or other menace,
and land shall not be subdivided until having access to available existing
public facilities and until improvements and proper provision have been made
for drainage, water, sewerage, other necessary new public improvements such as
schools, parks, recreation facilities and transportation facilities adequate
for serving the subdivision.
         (b)   Private wells and septic systems in lieu of public water and
sewer facilities are allowable where permitted under the town Zoning Chapter
and approved by the County Health Department and the town engineer.
      (3)   Both existing and proposed public facilities serving the
subdivision shall be properly related and conform to the official Town of
Fremont Comprehensive Land Use Plan, related policies and implementation
programs including the capital budget, official map, thoroughfare plan, Zoning
Chapter and Housing and Building Codes.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, §§ 1.1, 1.2)
§ 150.002 USAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain numbers, abbreviations, terms
and words used herein shall be used, interpreted and defined as set forth in
this section.
   (B)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in
the present tense include the future tense; words used in the plural number
include the singular; the word “herein” means “in this chapter” the word
“provisions” means “these provisions.”
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 2.1)
§ 150.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate structure, the use of which is incidental
to that of the dominant use of the principal building or land.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The officer appointed by and/or delegated the responsibility
for the administration of this chapter by the Planning Commission. This term
shall be construed to include those planning staff members working under the
direction of the ADMINISTRATOR in the exercise of his or her responsibilities
in regard to the processing of these subdivision provisions.
   ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION. A plan commission serving a single local
government jurisdiction established as defined under I.C. 36-7-1-2, as amended.
   AGENCY. See PUBLIC AGENCY.
   ALLEY. A public or private vehicular right-of-way primarily designed to
serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose
principal frontage is on some other street.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her agent
or his or her legal representative.
   ARTERIAL. Either a primary arterial or a secondary arterial as defined in
this section.
   AVERAGE DENSITY PROCEDURES. Procedures for calculating overall density of
development prescribed in the Zoning Chapter as a flexible tool for maintaining
overall densities while allowing individual lot sizes to vary from the minimum
size allowed in a given zone.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-way, shorelines of waterways or
boundary lines of municipalities.
   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. Referred to herein as the COUNTY so as not to
be confused with the Plan Commission, referred to herein as the Commission.
   BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the Plan Commission. All BONDS shall be approved by the Commission wherever
a bond is required by this chapter.
   BUFFER LANDSCAPING. Any trees, shrubs, walls, fences, berms or related
landscaping features required under this chapter or the Zoning Chapter on
private lots and privately maintained for buffering lots from adjacent
properties or public rights-of-way for the purpose of increasing sound and/or
visual privacy. Also, see SCREENING.
   BUILDING. Any roofed structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure
of persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind.
   BUILDING CODE.  
Chapter 151 below, and any amendments thereto or group of ordinances
establishing and controlling the standards for constructing buildings,
utilities, mechanical equipment and all forms of structures and permanent
installations and related matters, within the town. Also referred to herein as
the TOWN BUILDING CODE.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A certificate issued by the building permit official of a
governing body permitting a person, firm or corporation to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish any building
or structure within its jurisdiction, or cause the same to be done.
   BUILDING PERMIT OFFICIAL. The official of local government authorized to
issue building permits.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM.
      (1)   A proposed schedule of all future projects listed in order of
construction priority together with cost estimates and the anticipated means of
financing each project.
      (2)   All major projects requiring the expenditure of public funds, over
and above the annual local government's operating expenses, for the purchase,
construction or replacement of the more durable, longer lived physical asset
for the community are included.
   CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A community sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision or
an existing public sewer system.
   CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A community water supply system including existing and
new wells and/or surface water sources and intakes, treatment facilities and
distribution lines and includes the above facilities established by the
developer to serve a new subdivision.
   CERTIFICATE. The signed and attested document which indicates that a
subdivision has been granted secondary approval by the Commission subsequent to
proper public notice of its hearing.
   CHECKPOINT AGENCY. A public agency or organization called upon by the
Commission to provide expert counsel with regard to a specific aspect of
community development or required by law to give its assent before subdivision
may take place.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street intended to move traffic from local streets to
secondary arterials. (A COLLECTOR STREET serves a neighborhood or large
subdivision and should be designed so that no residential properties face onto
it and no driveway access to it is permitted unless the property is to be in
multifamily use for 4 or more dwelling units.)
   COMMISSION. The Fremont Advisory Plan Commission as referred to herein; not
the Board of County Commissioners, or any other commission unless so specified.
   COMMISSION ATTORNEY. The licensed attorney designated by the Commission to
furnish legal assistance for the administration of this chapter or as provided
by statute.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Includes physical, social and economic plans and
policies in graphic and verbal statement forms for the development of the town
(and the planning jurisdiction), prepared and adopted by the town, pursuant to
the state acts, and including any part of a plan and/or policies separately
adopted and any amendment to the plan and/or policies, or parts thereof.
   CONDOMINIUM. The division of building(s) and the related land into
horizontal property interests meeting the requirements of and controlled by
Indiana statutes for condominiums as prescribed by I.C. 35-25-1 through 32-25-
9.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN(S). The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat
and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed
for the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of this chapter as a
condition of the approval of the plat.
   COUNTY AUDITOR. That county official empowered to examine and settle all
accounts and demands that are chargeable against the county and not otherwise
provided for by statue.
   COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER. See HEALTH OFFICER.
   COUNTY RECORDER. That county official empowered to record and file land
description plats.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only 1 outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement including
public safety vehicles.
   DEAD-END STREET. A street or a portion of a street with only 1 vehicular
traffic outlet, and no turnaround at the terminal end.
   DEPARTMENT. See PUBLIC AGENCY.
   DESIGNATED OFFICIALS. Those officials of the Commission designated in the
subdivision control ordinance as required signatories for the execution of
secondary approval.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent for making applications for development approval shall
be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   DRIVES, PRIVATE. Vehicular streets and driveways, paved or unpaved, which
are wholly within private property except where they intersect with other
streets within public right-of-way.
   EASEMENT. An authorization granted by a property owner for the use by
another of any designated part of his or her property for a clearly specified
purpose(s).
   ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the Commission in lieu of an amount required
and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond. ESCROW funds shall be
held by the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   EXEMPT DIVISIONS. See SUBDIVISION.
   FINAL PLAT. The map, drawing or plan described in this chapter of a
subdivision and any accompanying material submitted to the Commission for
secondary approval, and which if approved and signed by the designated
officials, may be submitted to the County Recorder for recording.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. Those flood plains which have not been adequately
protected from flooding by the regulatory flood by means of dikes, levees or
reservoirs, and are shown on the floodway-flood boundary maps of the Federal
Insurance Administration or maps provided to the Commission from the State
Natural Resources Commission.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The area adjoining the river or stream which has been or may
hereafter be covered by flood water from the regulatory flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the lowest point around the
perimeter of a building at which flood waters may enter the interior of the
building.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the flood hazard areas lying outside the
floodway, shown on the floodway-flood boundary maps of the Federal Insurance
Administration.
   FOUNDATION. The supporting member of a wall or structure.
   FRONT YARD.
      (1)   A yard as defined herein, encompassing the horizontal space between
the nearest foundation of a building to the right-of-way line and that right-
of-way line, extending to the side lines of the lot, and measured as the
shortest distance from that foundation to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   The FRONT YARD of a corner lot shall be that yard abutting the
street upon which lot has its least frontage.
   FRONTAGE. That side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot. Lots shall not be considered to front on stub
ends of streets and in the case of corner lots will be considered to front on
both intersecting streets. (No access for any 1 lot is permitted to more than 1
street and that street generally will be the one calculated to have lower
traffic volumes and less frequent intersections).
   FRONTAGE STREET. Any street to be constructed by the developer or any
existing street in which development shall take place on both sides.
   GOVERNING BODY. The body of the relevant local government having the power
to adopt ordinances.
   GRADE. The slope of a street, or other public way, specified in percentage
terms.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT and (COUNTY) HEALTH OFFICER. The agency and person
designated by the county to administer the health regulations within the
county's jurisdiction.
   HIGH DENSITY. Those residential zoning districts in which the density is
equal to or greater than 1 dwelling unit per 10,000 square feet.
   HIGHWAY, LIMITED ACCESS. A freeway, or expressway, providing for through
traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands
and other persons have no legal right to access to or from the same, except at
points and in a manner as may be determined by the public authority having
jurisdiction over a highway.
   HOUSING CODE. That town ordinance controlling the continuing safety and
healthfulness of building for human occupation within the town jurisdiction.
   IMPROVEMENTS. (See LOT IMPROVEMENTS or PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS).
   INDIANA CODE. West's Annotated Indiana Code, which codifies all Indiana
statutes for reference purposes. The latest edition with any amending
supplements must be referred to for the law “now” in force and applicable.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system or any other approved sewage treatment device approved by the
Health Department.
   INTERESTED PARTIES. Those parties who are the owners of properties adjoining
or adjacent to the proposed subdivision as shown on the sketch plan.
   JOINT OWNERSHIP.  JOINT OWNERSHIP among persons shall be construed as the
same owner; CONSTRUCTIVE OWNERSHIP for the purpose of imposing subdivision
regulations.
   LAND DIVIDER. The owner of a parcel of land to be further divided through
making an exempt division.
   LANDSCAPING. See BUFFER LANDSCAPING, SCREENING and SHADE TREES.
   LOCAL STREET. A street intended to provide access to other streets from
individual properties and to provide right-of-way beneath it for sewer, water
and storm drainage pipes.
   LOT. A tract, plot or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or of building development.
   LOT, CORNER. Any building, structure, work of art or other object, or
improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical
betterment of real property, or any part of a betterment. Certain lot
improvements shall be properly bonded as provided in this chapter.
   LOW DENSITY. Those residential zoning districts in which the density is
equal or less then 1 dwelling unit per 40,000 square feet.
   MAJOR STREET. A collector or arterial street.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. See OFFICIAL MAP.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision,
including but not limited to subdivision, including but not limited to
subdivisions of 4 or more lots, or any site subdivision requiring any new
street or extension of the local governmental facilities, or the creation of
any public improvements.
   MAP. A representation of a part or the whole of the earth's surface, in
signs and symbols, on a plane surface, at an established scale, with a method
of orientation indicated.
   MARKER. A stake, pipe, rod, nail or any other object which is not intended
to be a permanent point for record purposes.
   MASTER PLAN. See COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   MEDIUM DENSITY. Those residential zoning districts in which the density is
between 10,000 and 40,000 square feet per dwelling unit.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than 3 lots fronting
on an existing street which is an improved right-of-way maintained by the
county or town or state, not involving any new street or the extension of
municipal facilities, or the creation of any public improvements, and not
adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and not
in conflict with any provision or portion of the comprehensive plan, official
map, Zoning Chapter or this chapter.
   MODEL HOME. A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which
typifies the kind of units that will be constructed in the subdivision.
Dwelling units may be erected, at the discretion of the Commission, by
permitting a portion of a major subdivision involving no more than 2 lots to be
created according to the procedures for minor subdivisions, as set out in this
chapter.
   MONUMENT. A physical structure which marks the location of a corner or other
survey point.
   NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial. This subdivision shall comply
with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   OFF-SITE. Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The map or maps established by the county surveyor or the town
engineer pursuant to law showing the existing and proposed streets, highways,
parks, drainage systems and set-back lines theretofore laid out, adopted and
established by law and any amendments or additions thereto adopted by the town
or additions thereto resulting from the approval of subdivision plats by the
Commission and the subsequent filing of like approved plats.
   OFFICIAL MASTER PLAN. See COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   ORDINANCE. Any legislative action, however denominated, of a local
government which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any
ordinance.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under this chapter.
   PARCEL. A part or portion of land having a legal description formally set
forth in a conveyance together with the boundaries thereof, in order to make
possible its easy identification.
   PERIMETER STREET. Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only 1 side.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, a partnership and an incorporated
association of persons such as a club.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The town advisory plan body as established in accordance
with Indiana law, often referred to herein simply as the COMMISSION.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A means of land regulation which permits large
scale, unified land development in a configuration and possibly a mix of uses
not otherwise permitted “as of right” under the Fremont Zoning Chapter but
requiring under that ordinance or a special ordinance a special review and
approval process.
   PLAT. A map indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land filed or
intended to be filed for record with the County Recorder.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in this
chapter, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Commission for approval.
   PRIMARY APPROVAL. An approval (or approval with conditions imposed) granted
to a subdivision by the Commission after having determined in a public hearing
that the subdivision complies with the standards prescribed in this chapter
(per I.C. 36-7-4-700 series: Subdivision Control).
   PRIMARY ARTERIAL. A street intended to move through traffic to and from
major attractors such as central business districts, regional shipping centers,
major industrial areas and similar traffic generators within the town or
county, and/or as a route for traffic between communities; a major
thoroughfare.
   PRINCIPAL USE BUILDING. A building in which the principal use of the lot or
parcel is conducted. Standards recognized by the Indiana Administrative
Building Council shall be used to determine whether a given structure
constitutes 1 or more buildings in cases where ambiguities exist.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. An agency or government department acting under the aegis of
and representing an elected or appointed council, commission or other policy-
making or advisory body of federal, state or local government to whom it is
responsible.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, street, highway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian-way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement or other
facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established. (All
IMPROVEMENTS shall be properly bonded).
   REAR YARD. A yard as defined below, encompassing the horizontal space
between the nearest foundation of a building to a rear lot line, extending to
the side lines of the lot, and measured as the shortest distance from that
foundation to the rear lot line. The REAR YARD of a corner lot shall be that
yard at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and registered
in the State of Indiana or permitted to practice in Indiana through
reciprocity.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. That flood having a peak discharge which can be equaled or
exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period, as calculated by a method
and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the State Natural
Resources Commission; this flood is equivalent to a flood having a probability
of occurrence of 1% in any given year.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The maximum elevation, as established by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, reached by the regulatory flood at the
locations in question relevant to approval of a given subdivision under
consideration.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the flood plains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to
efficiently carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any
river or stream shown on the floodway-flood boundary maps of the Federal
Insurance Administration.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS. Limitations of various kinds on the usage of lots or
parcels of land within a subdivision which are proposed by the subdivider, and,
in the case of public health, safety and welfare by the Commission, that are
recorded with the plat and run with the land.
   RESUBDIVISION. A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat
if the change affects any street layout on the map or area reserved thereon for
public use, or any lot line or setback; or if it affects any map or plan
legally recorded prior to the adoption of any ordinance controlling
subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      (1)   A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street,
pedestrian-way, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, special landscaping or for
another special use.
      (2)   The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes shall
mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is
to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining a right-of-way
and not included within the dimensions or area of lots or parcels.
      (3)   RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains,
sanitary sewers, storm drains, screening or special landscaping, or any other
use involving maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use
by the subdivider on whose plat the right-of-way is established.
   ROAD(S). See STREET(S).
   SALE or LEASE. Any unmediated or future transfer of ownership, or any
possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise,
intestate succession or transfer of an interest in a subdivision or part
thereof, whether by metes and bounds, deed, contract, plat, map, lease, devise,
intestate succession or other written instrument.
   SAME OWNERSHIP. Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership or unincorporated associations, in which a stockholder, partner or
associate, or a member of his or her family owns an interest in each
corporation, firm, partnership, entity or unincorporated association.
   SCREENING.
      (1)   A strip of at least 10 feet wide, densely planted (or having
equivalent natural growth) with shrubs or trees at least 4 feet high at the
time of planting, of a type that will form a year-round dense screen at least 6
feet high.
      (2)   SCREENING shall be maintained in good condition at all times. Where
required by the Zoning Chapter a screen shall be installed along or within the
lines of a plot as a protection for adjoining or nearby properties.
      (3)   Earth berms may be incorporated as part of SCREENING measures where
appropriate.
   SECONDARY APPROVAL. The stage of application for formal Plan Commission
approval of a final plat of a subdivision the construction of which has been
completed or substantially completed which, if approved and signed by the
designated officials may be submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
   SECONDARY ARTERIAL. A street intended to collect and distribute traffic in a
manner similar to primary arterials, except that these streets service minor
traffic generating area such as community-commercial areas, primary and
secondary educational plants, hospitals, major recreational areas, churches and
offices, and/or designed to carry traffic from collector streets to the system
of primary arterials.
   SETBACK. A line parallel to and equidistant from the relevant lot line
(front, back, side) between which no buildings or structures may be erected as
prescribed in the Zoning Chapter.
   SHADE TREE. A tree in a public place, special easement or right-of-way
adjoining a street as provided in this chapter.
   SHALL. Always mandatory.
   SIDE LOT LINES. Any lines separating 2 lots other than front or rear lot
lines.
   SKETCH PLAN.
      (1)   The initially submitted graphic representation of a proposed major
subdivision, drawn to approximate scale, either superimposed upon a print of
topographic survey, or presented in any other suitable graphic medium or form
acceptable to the Commission; and
      (2)   In the case of a minor subdivision, the drawing or drawings
indicating the proposed manner of layout of the subdivision meeting the
conditions of the subdivision control ordinance to be submitted to the
Commission for primary approval.
   SPECIAL LANDSCAPING. Areas of tree planting, shrubs or other landscape
features serving a public purpose and maintained by the town. (See also BUFFER
LANDSCAPING and SCREENING).
   STATE ACTS. Legislative acts of the State of Indiana as they affect this
chapter.
   STATE PLANE COORDINATES SYSTEM. A system of plane coordinates, based on the
Transverse Mercator Projection for the Western Zone of Indiana, established by
the United State Coast and Geodetic Survey for the State of Indiana.
   STREET, DEAD-END. A street or a portion of a street with only 1 vehicular-
traffic outlet.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The distance between property lines measured at
right angles to the center line of the street.
   STREETS, CLASSIFICATION. 
      (1)   For the purpose of providing for the development of the streets,
highways and rights-of-way in the governmental unit, and for their future
improvement, reconstruction, realignment and necessary widening, including
provision for curbs and sidewalks, each existing street, highway and right-of-
way and those located on approved and filed plats, have been designated on the
official map of the town or thoroughfare plan and classified therein.
      (2)   The CLASSIFICATION of each street, highway and right-of-way is
based upon its location in the respective zoning districts of the town and its
present and estimated future traffic volume and its relative importance and
function as specified in the Fremont comprehensive plan and/or its thoroughfare
plan component.
      (3)   The required improvements shall be measured as set forth for each
STREET CLASSIFICATION on the official map.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected that requires location on or in
the ground is attached to something having a location on or in the ground.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who:
      (1)   Having a proprietary interest in land, causes it, directly or
indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision;
      (2)   Directly or indirectly sells, leases or develops, or offers to
sell, lease or develop, or advertises for sale, lease or development, any
interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision;
      (3)   Engages directly, or through an agent, in the business of selling,
leasing, developing or offering for sale, lease or development a subdivision of
any interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision; and
      (4)   Is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct, or
indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   (a)   The division of a parcel of land into 2 or more lots,
parcels, sites, units, plats or interests for the purpose of offer, sale, lease
or development, either on an installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions, including RESUBDIVISION.
         (b)   SUBDIVISION includes the division or development of land zoned
for residential and nonresidential uses, whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise, intestacy, lease, map, plat or other recorded instrument.
      (2)   The following kinds of divisions of existing parcels of land are
herein called “exempt divisions” and are classified into 2 categories; exempt I
and exempt II.
      (3)   These divisions are exempt from most provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Exempt I divisions must be 1 of the following types of division:
         (a)   A division of land into 2 or more tracts of which all tracts are
at least 10 acres in size;
         (b)   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts to
correct errors in an existing legal description, provided that no additional
building sites other than for accessory buildings are created by the division;
         (c)   A division of land pursuant to an allocation of land in the
settlement of a decedent's estate or a court decree for the distribution of
property; subject to the provisions of this chapter;
         (d)   A division of land for federal, state or local government to
acquire street right-of-way;
         (e)   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts between
adjoining lots provided that no additional principal use building sites are
created by the division. The lots so created hereunder shall have only 1
principal use building site each. See PRINCIPAL USE BUILDING; or
         (f)   A division of land into cemetery plots for the purpose of burial
of corpses.
      (5)   Exempt I divisions are subject to the provisions of §§
150.079 of this chapter, but shall be exempt from other provisions of this
chapter not specified or referenced in those sections.
      (6)   Exempt II divisions are divisions of land into not more than 4
parcels 1 acre or more in size but less than 10 acres.
      (7)   These divisions shall conform to §
150.024 but shall be exempt from other provisions of this chapter not specified
or referred to in those sections.
   SUBDIVISION AGENT. Any person who represents, or acts for or on behalf of, a
subdivider or developer, in selling, leasing or developing or offering to sell,
lease or develop any interest, lot, parcel, unit, site or plat in a
subdivision, except an attorney-at-law whose representation of another person
consists solely of rendering legal services, and is not involved in developing,
marketing or selling real property in the subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, EXEMPT. See SUBDIVISION.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. See MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. See MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and intended to be replaced by a
permanent improvement prior to release of the performance bond or turnaround
improvements at the ends of stub streets intended to be replaced when the
adjoining area is developed and the through street connection made.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. See OFFICIAL MAP.
   TOWN COUNCIL.
      (1)   The governmental body of the town empowered to adopt planning and
public policy ordinances.
      (2)   The TOWN COUNCIL herein referred to only as THE TOWN.
   TOWN DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE. A committee established by the town to provide
technical services to the Plan Commission in the administration of this
chapter.
   TOWN ENGINEER. The licensed engineer designated by the town to furnish
engineering assistance in the administration of this chapter.
   USED or OCCUPIED. As applied to any land or building shall be construed to
include the words intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building, the space being
open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky
except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The town ordinance setting forth the provisions
controlling the use of land in the incorporated areas and the jurisdictional
area.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 2.2)
§ 150.004 PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Purpose:
      (1)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the town;
      (2)   To guide the future development and renewal of the town in
accordance with the comprehensive plan-related policies;
      (3)   To provide for the safety, comfort and soundness of the built
environment and related open spaces;
      (4)   To protect the compatibility, character, economic stability and
orderliness of all development through reasonable design standards; and
      (5)   To guide public and private policy and action to provide:
         (a)   Adequate and efficient public and private facilities;
         (b)   The most aesthetically pleasing and beneficial interrelationship
between land uses; and
         (c)   Conservation of natural resources such as natural beauty,
woodlands, open spaces and energy both during and after development.
   (B)   Authority and jurisdiction.
      (1)   This chapter which was enacted pursuant to Indiana home rule and
planning enabling legislation (I.C. 36-1-3-4 and the I.C. 36-7-4-700 series, as
amended) authorizes the Fremont Plan Commission to review and approve or
disapprove plats for subdivisions throughout the Fremont jurisdictional area
which show lots, blocks or sites with or without new streets or highways. This
authority extends to the development or resubdivision of undeveloped portions
of already recorded plats.
      (2)   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for
any parcel or plat or land which was created by subdivision after the effective
date of, and not in conformity with the provisions of this Subdivision Chapter,
and no excavation of land or construction of any public or private improvements
shall take place or be commenced except in conformity with the provisions
contained herein and in conformity with construction standards adopted by the
town.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 1.3)
§ 150.005 ENACTMENT.
   In order that land may be subdivided in accordance with these purposes and
policies, this Subdivision Control Chapter is hereby adopted.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 1.5)
§ 150.006 INTERPRETATION; CONFLICT.
   (A)   General. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of
this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Conflict with public and private provisions.
      (1)   Public provisions. These provisions are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or
other provision of law. Where any provision of this chapter imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of this
chapter or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law,
whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall
control.
      (2)   Private provisions. These provisions are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction, provided
that where the provisions of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or regulations than the easement, covenant or other private agreement
or restriction, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. Where the
provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement or restriction impose
duties and obligations more restrictive, or higher standards than the
requirements of this chapter, or the determinations of the Commission in
approving a subdivision or in enforcing this chapter, and private provisions
are not inconsistent with this chapter or determinations thereunder, then the
private provisions shall be operative and supplemental to this chapter and
determinations made thereunder.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 1.6)
§ 150.007 SAVING PROVISION; REPEALER; AMENDMENTS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of prior existing subdivision control regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as
waiving any right of the town under any rights obtained by any person, firm or
corporation, by lawful action of the town except as shall be expressly provided
for in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of this chapter according to law, the Subdivision
Control Chapter of the Town of Fremont adopted October, 1980, as amended is
hereby repealed, except for sections expressly retained herein.
   (C)   (1)   For the purpose of providing for the public health, safety and
general welfare, the town, on recommendation of the Commission, may from time
to time amend these subdivision provisions.
      (2)   Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held by the
Commission and/or the town in the manner prescribed by law.
   (D)   (1)   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of
reasonable conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power
delegated by the state to this municipality.
      (2)   The developer has the duty of compliance with reasonable conditions
laid down by the Commission for design, dedication, improvement and restrictive
use of the land in order to conform to the physical and economical development
of the town and to the safety and general welfare of the future plot owners in
the subdivision and of the town at large.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, §§ 1.7 through 1.10)
§ 150.008 RESUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   (A)   Procedure for resubdivision. For any change in map of an approved or
recorded subdivision plat, if the change affects any street layout shown on the
map, or area reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it affects
any map or plan legally reached prior to the adoption of any provisions
controlling subdivisions, the parcel shall be approved by the Commission by the
same procedure, rules and regulations as for a subdivision.
   (B)   Procedure for subdivisions where future resubdivision is indicated.
      (1)   Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat
shows 1 or more lots containing more than 1 acre of land and there are
indications that the lots will eventually be resubdivided into smaller building
sites, the Commission may require that the parcel of land allow for the future
opening of streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent streets.
      (2)   Easements providing for the future opening and extension of streets
may be made a requirement of the plat.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 1.11)
§ 150.009 VACATION OF PLATS; VARIANCES; ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any recorded plat or part of any recorded plat may be vacated only in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-3 as amended.
   (B)   (1)   General. Where the Commission finds that extraordinary hardships
or practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these
provisions and/or the purposes of these provisions may be served to a greater
extent by an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these
subdivision control provisions so that substantial justice may be done and the
public interest secured, provided that the variances shall not have the effect
of nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter; and further provided the
Commission shall not approve variances unless it shall make findings based upon
the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
         (a)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public safety, health or welfare; or injurious to other nearby property;
         (b)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based
are unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not
generally applicable to other property;
         (c)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these provisions is carried out; and
         (d)   The variance will not in any manner contravene the provisions of
the Zoning Chapter, comprehensive plan or official map as interpreted by the
Commission and the town engineer.
      (2)   Conditions. In approving variances, the Commission may require
conditions that will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of
the standards or requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Procedures. A petition for any variance shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for
the consideration of the Commission. The petition shall state fully the grounds
for the application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to enforce this
chapter and to bring any violations or lack of compliance to the attention of
the Commission Attorney.
      (2)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any parcel before a plat of
subdivision has been approved by the Commission, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, and filed with the County Recorder.
      (3)   The division of any lot or any parcel of land into a subdivision,
as defined in this chapter, by the use of metes and bounds description for the
purpose of sale, or transfer or lease resulting in the creation of 1 or more
new building sites shall not be permitted. All like described divisions shall
be subject to all of the appropriate requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   No improvement location permit or building permit required under
the Uniform Building Code, the Zoning Chapter or this chapter shall be issued
on any property subject to this chapter until the provisions of this chapter
have been complied with.
   (D)   (1)   Any land within the jurisdiction subdivided in violation of the
terms of this chapter after the effective date hereof, is hereby declared to be
a common nuisance, which may be restrained, enjoined or abated in any
appropriate action or proceeding.
      (2)   The Commission may institute an injunction suit requesting an
individual or governmental unit be directed to remove a structure erected in
violation of this chapter, or to make the same comply with its terms. If the
Commission is successful in its suit, the respondent shall bear the costs of
the action, including reasonable attorney fees.
      (3)   The Commission may institute a suit for mandatory injunction
requesting an individual or governmental unit be directed, where an individual
or governmental unit has violated any provisions of this chapter, to comply
with the provisions of this chapter. If the Commission is successful in its
suit, the respondent shall pay the Commission's reasonable attorney fees and
all costs related to the enforcement of this chapter.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, §§ 1.12 through 1.14) Penalty, see §
150.999
APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
§ 150.020 GENERAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Discussion of requirements; predesign conference.
      (1)   Prior to submitting any of the materials required by this chapter,
the applicant or his or her representative should discuss with the
Administrator the nature of the land division being proposed, so that the
applicant may be instructed concerning the classification of his or her
subdivision and what regulatory procedures apply to it and must be followed
under this chapter in order to secure primary and secondary approval.
      (2)   Where applicable, requirements concerning the general layout of
streets and for reservations of land, street improvements, drainage, sewerage,
fire protection and similar matters, as well as the availability of existing
services should be discussed.
      (3)   The Administrator shall also advise the applicant, where
appropriate, to discuss the proposed land division with those other officials
who must eventually approve those aspects of the subdivision plat coming within
their jurisdiction. The distinction between major and minor subdivisions and
exempt divisionsdefined in this chapter, shall be made by the Administrator
when the applicant submits an application for sketch plan approval in the case
of major an minor subdivisions or, in the case of exempt divisions, provides
the Administrator at a predesign conference with adequate information to enable
him or her to determine that the proposed division is an exempt division.
   (B)   Classification of land divisions.
      (1)   All land to be divided shall be categorized into 1 of the 3 main
classes of land division indicated in this chapter's definition of subdivision.
      (2)   These classes are:
         (a)   Major subdivisions;
         (b)   Minor subdivisions; and
         (c)   Exempt divisions.
      (3)   Exempt divisions are not subject to the requirements of this
chapter beyond the determination by the Administrator that they meet all the
requirements for exempt divisions set forth in §
150.024 below.
      (4)   However, lots created by exempt I divisions (except exemption F)
shall be 10 or more acres in size to be eligible as principal use building
sites (exemption A in the definition of subdivision), unless the lots have been
created by order of a court (exemption C).
      (5)   No building site for principal use created through exemption A
shall be reduced below 10 acres unless through subdivision or by order of court
(exemption C).
      (6)   For purposes of this division, a lot is “created” on the date of
recording. See §
150.003 for the definition of a “principal use building.”
      (7)   Before any permit shall be granted for a structure to be erected on
land to be subdivided into a major or minor subdivision, the subdividing owner
or his or her subdivision agent shall apply for and
secure approval of the proposed subdivision in accordance with §
150.021 and either §§
150.022 or
150.023 as appropriate.
      (6)   Before any permit shall be granted for a structure to be erected on
a parcel of land to be created or altered by an exempt division, the land
divider or his or her agent shall certify to the satisfaction of the
Administrator that all requirements for exemption have been met as detailed in
§
150.024, in order to exempt the land division from the requirements of this
chapter.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 3.1) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.021 SKETCH PLAN APPLICATION PROCEDURE; PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   Application requirements. In order to begin the subdivision process
the applicant shall file an application for review of sketch plan and
certificate with the Administrator and be entitled to a signed receipt for
same. This application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available at the office of the Commission and
signed by the owner;
      (2)   (a)   Include indication of all contiguous holdings, including land
in the same ownership, with an indication of the portion which is proposed to
be subdivided, accompanied by an affidavit of ownership, which shall include
the dates the respective holdings of land were acquired, together with the book
and page of each conveyance to the present owner as recorded in the County
Recorder's office.
         (b)   The affidavit shall advise as to the legal owner of the
property, the contract owner of the property, optionee of the property and the
date on which the contract of sale was executed.
         (c)   If any corporations are involved, the Administrator may request
a complete list of all directors, officers and a listing of stockholders if
less than 10 in number;
      (3)   Be presented to the Administrator in duplicate;
      (4)   Be accompanied by a minimum of 3 copies of the sketch plan;
      (5)   Be accompanied by the applicable fee per lot established by the
Board;
      (6)   Include an address and telephone number of an agent located within
the territory of the Commission who shall be authorized to receive all notices
required by this chapter; and
      (7)   Include a listing signed by the checkpoint agencies indicating that
they have received a copy of the proposed sketch plan of a certification that
it has been sent.
   (B)   Checkpoint submission. In order to fulfill this last application
requirement, a copy of the proposed plan shall be submitted to each of the
agencies appropriate to the plan's location so that the comment may be located
are listed in division (D) below. The Administrator shall request that all
officials and agencies to whom a request for review has been made submit a
written report to him or her within 15 days after receipt of the request. No
response from an agency shall be interpreted as meaning “no objection.”
   (C)   Classification of subdivision. After an application for sketch plan
approval has been submitted, and at the time of sketch plan review the
Administrator shall classify the proposed subdivision as either major or minor
as defined in this chapter. The required procedures and approvals for major
subdivisions are described in §
150.022; corresponding information concerning the minor subdivision approval
process is provided in §
150.023.
   (D)   Checkpoint agencies.
      (1)   Proposed subdivision in unincorporated Fremont jurisdictional area,
Steuben County:
         (a)   Highway Engineer;
         (b)   Drainage Engineer;
         (c)   County Soil and Water Conservation District;
         (d)   County Health Board;
         (e)   County Park Board;
         (f)   Appropriate Fire Departments;
         (g)   Appropriate school corporations; and
         (h)   Public utilities.
      (2)   Proposed subdivision within incorporated town of Fremont:
         (a)   Town Council;
         (b)   County Health Board;
         (c)   School Board;
         (d)   Local Fire Department;
         (e)   Town Marshal;
         (f)   County Soil and Water Conservation District;
         (g)   Fremont Water Department;
         (h)   Fremont Sewage Department;
         (I)   Fremont Street Department; and
         (j)   Public utilities.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Figure 3-1)
   (E)   Time line approval process for major subdivisions.
      (1)   Sixty-one calendar days prior to the initial public meeting, the
sketch plan is submitted.
      (2)   Within 20 calendar days of submittal, checkpoint agency officials
recommend changes and/or modifications.
      (3)   Thirty-one calendar days prior to public meeting, the final copies
of the Preliminary Plat are submitted. Prior to placement on the agenda, the
Administrator reviews plan and makes written recommendation to Commission.
      (4)   Ten calendar days prior to initial public meeting, the appropriate
public hearing notifications and postings must have been made.
      (5)   (a)   Public meeting is held. Decision to approve, conditionally
approve or disapprove the preliminary plat is made. Approval of the preliminary
plat is effective for 5 calendar years.
         (b)   At least 30 calendar days must elapse before secondary approval
is granted.
      (6)   (a)   Three sets of detailed plans are submitted for final
approval.
         (b)   Within 14 calendar days, construction plans shall be reviewed.
         (c)   Infrastructure work may commence upon Administrator's approval.
All materials for final plat approval are submitted.
      (7)   Administrative review: within 10 calendar days, the Administrator
reviews all materials and makes written recommendation.
      (8)   Commission review: 30 calendar days prior to the public meeting,
written request for Commission review is submitted.
      (9)   At the public meeting, approval or disapproval of final plat is
determined. Plat may be sectionalized at this time. Within 30 calendar days of
signed approval, plat must be filed with the County Recorder.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Figure 3-2)
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 3.2) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.022 MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General procedures for primary and secondary approval.
      (1)   Should the Administrator, during sketch plan review, classify the
proposed plan division as a major subdivision, the subdivider shall follow the
procedures and be subject to the processes outlined in §
150.021(E), and detailed in this section.
      (2)   In addition to a sketch plan which is reviewed by the Administrator
and checkpoint agencies, the applicant seeking approval of a major subdivision
shall submit a preliminary subdivision plat to be approved, conditionally
approved, or rejected by the Commission at a public meeting, and final
subdivision plat which must be found in compliance with the preliminary plat as
approved by the Commission or otherwise approved in order to be signed and
recorded.
   (B)   Official submission dates. The deadline for submittal of a sketch plan
and application for certificate of approval shall be 61 calendar days prior to
the date of the public meeting at which the subdivider intends to present his
or her preliminary plat shall be submitted no less than 31 calendar days prior
to the public hearing at which it is intended to be heard.
   (C)   Sketch plan review process.
      (1)   Within 20 calendar days of the subdivider's sketch plan application
submittal, the Administrator shall have studied the proposal, reviewed
checkpoint reports received and met with the subdivider to discuss pertinent
aspects of the possible modifications and/or changes that may be suggested or
required by this chapter.
      (2)   The Administrator shall request that a representative of each
checkpoint agency wishing to be involved in a sketch plan review be present to
participate in the sketch plan review meeting.
      (3)   The Administrator, taking into consideration the requirements of
this chapter, shall consider: the location and width of streets; their
relations to the topography of the land; sewage disposal; drainage; lot size
and arrangement; the further development of adjoining lands as yet
unsubdivided; and the requirements of the official map or thoroughfare plan and
comprehensive plan as adopted by the participating jurisdictions.
      (4)   Subsequent to this meeting the Administrator shall provide the
participants with a written record of the proceedings of that meeting upon
their written request.
   (D)   Preliminary plat procedures for primary approval.
      (1)   Submission requirements.
         (a)   Following the submission, review and report on the sketch plan
application, the subdivider may file for primary approval of a preliminary
plat.
         (b)   This submission shall:
            1.   Be made on forms available at the office of the Commission and
be submitted with the lot fee for each lot which was not included in the sketch
plan;
            2.   Include indication of all land which the applicant proposes to
subdivide and all land immediately adjacent and across any street or railroad
right-of-way, extending 600 feet therefrom, but not more than 2 property owners
deep from the proposed subdivision, with the names and addresses of the title
owners as shown in the auditor's files. This information may be shown on a
separate current plat map reproduction from the auditor's office showing the
boundaries of the subdivision superimposed thereon;
            3.   Be presented in duplicate to the Administrator no later than
31 calendar days prior to the regular meeting of the Commission at which it is
intended to be heard;
            4.   Be accompanied by 10 copies of the preliminary plat as
described in this chapter; and
            5.   Generally comply with the sketch plan as reviewed.
      (2)   Administrative review. Subsequent to placement on the agenda, and
prior to the date of public hearing, the Administrator and other appropriate
members of the Commission's staff including its Executive Director may review
the proposal and prepare a written report to the Commission and applicant
indicating a recommendation with regard to the subdivision being proposed.
      (3)   Public hearing notification and sign posting requirements.
         (a)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing on the preliminary
plat and notice of the hearing shall be in 2 local newspapers of general
circulation 10 days prior to the hearing (per I.C. 5-3-1) at the applicant's
expense.
         (b)   At the time of the public hearing, the applicant shall submit an
affidavit stating that the applicant has placed posters provided by the
Administrator (advising interested parties of the hearing) at the locations
designated by the Administrator on the proposed subdivision property at least
10 days prior to the public hearing and show proofs of publication that the
notices of public hearing were published at least 10 days prior to the public
hearing.
         (c)   Interested parties shall also be notified by the applicant of
the date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing on the subdivision at
least 10 days in advance of the hearing by certified mail.
         (d)   The applicant shall file with the Commission at the time of the
public hearing an affidavit so testifying along with the certified mail
receipts provided by the post office.
      (4)   Primary approval of the preliminary plat.
         (a)   After the Commission has held a hearing upon the preliminary
plat, the Administrator's report, checkpoint recommendations, testimony and
exhibits submitted at the public meeting, the applicant shall be advise of any
required changes and/or additions.
         (b)   The Commission shall at a public meeting, grant primary approval
or disapprove the preliminary plat. One copy of the preliminary plat shall be
returned to the applicant with the date of approval, conditional approval or
disapproval and the reasons therefore accompanying the plat within 5 days of
the public hearing.
         (c)   Before the Commission approves a preliminary plat showing parks,
reservation(s) or land for another local governmental unit, the Commission
shall obtain approval of the park or land reservation from the participating
jurisdiction. Primary approval by the Commission is subject to judicial review.
         (d)   Secondary approval of a subdivision cannot occur until a minimum
of 30 days has elapsed since the granting of primary approval, per I.C. 36-7-4-
708(d).
Statutory reference:
   Paragraph (d) of the statute cited in division (D)(4)(d) was repealed by
P.L. 126-2011, § 19.
      (5)   Field trip. The Commission, at its discretion, upon hearing the
request for primary approval, may elect to continue the matter until its next
regularly scheduled public meeting, and may schedule a field trip to the site
of the proposed subdivision, accompanied by the applicant or his or her
representative or any other person or persons at the discretion of the
Commission.
      (6)   Effective period of primary approval.
         (a)   Unless extended, the primary approval of a preliminary plat
shall be effective for a period of 5 years after the date of primary approval,
at the end of which time secondary approval of the subdivision must have been
obtained and certified by the designated officials.
         (b)   Any plats not receiving secondary approval within the period of
time set forth herein shall be null and void, and the developer shall be
required to resubmit a new application for sketch plan review and certificate
subject to all the zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations in effect at
the time of resubmission.
         (c)   Upon request of the applicant the Commission may extend the
primary approval of a preliminary plat in increments of 2 years beyond an
expiration date without further notice and public hearing.
   (E)   Approval of construction plans.
      (1)   Submission procedure and requirements. Following the review of the
sketch plan and prior to submission of the final plat for secondary approval,
the applicant, if he or she wishes to proceed with the subdivision, shall file
with the Administrator before starting work on any improvements 3 sets of the
detailed plans and specification thereof for approval.
      (2)   Review process. The Administrator shall immediately refer these
plans to the appropriate agencies of the affected participating jurisdictions
for review. Once these agencies indicate their approval of the construction
plans or 14 working days have elapsed since their distribution without a
written response, the Administrator shall stamp the plans approved and return 1
set to the applicant. In no event shall secondary approval (of the final plat)
be given prior to approval of the construction plans.
      (3)   Installation of improvements. The installation of improvements
shall be inspected by the appropriate participating jurisdiction. Inspections
are required in all instances regardless of whether the work is performed
before or after secondary approval. Failure to request or to procure inspection
of work performed after the date of this chapter and before secondary approval
may be cause for denial of secondary approval.
   (F)   Final plat procedure (secondary approval).
      (1)   Submission requirements. Following primary approval or conditional
primary approval of the preliminary plat and approval of the construction
plans, the applicant, if he or she wishes to proceed with the subdivision,
shall file with the Administrator a request for secondary approval of a final
plat. The application shall:
         (a)   Be submitted on forms available at the office of the Commission;
         (b)   Include the entire subdivision, or section thereof which derives
access from an existing state, county or municipal roadway;
         (c)   Be accompanied by 10 copies of the final plat as described in
this chapter;
         (d)   Totally comply with the ordinance and the terms an conditions of
primary approval;
         (e)   Be accompanied by the performance bond, if required, in a form
satisfactory to the Commission Attorney and in an amount established by the
Commission upon recommendation of the participating jurisdiction and shall
guarantee the completion of all required subdivision and off-site public
improvements; and
         (f)   Be accompanied by any restrictive covenants in a form approved
by the Commission, where they have been proposed by the subdivider or required
by the Commission.
      (2)   Determination of conformance (secondary approval).
         (a)   In order to be recorded, a final plat shall be found to be in
conformance with the primary approval by the Commission at a public meeting.
         (b)   If the final subdivision plat deviates from the preliminary plat
that received primary approval, the subdivision plat shall be resubmitted to
the Commission at a public hearing for a new primary approval.
         (c)   Should the subdivider not choose Commission review the
Administrator shall within 10 working days, review the items submitted as per
division (F)(1) above in order to ascertain the sufficiency as to conformance
with the primary approval. If the submission is found to be in conformance and
complete, the Administrator shall recommend the signing of the certificate
granting secondary approval.
         (d)   Should the subdivider choose Commission review, the Commission
shall determine conformance with the primary approval at a public meeting.
         (e)   The subdivider shall request Commission review in writing no
less than 30 calendar days prior to the date of the public meeting at which he
or she intends to have his or her final plat reviewed.
         (f)   The Commission shall place the matter on its next regular
meeting agenda.
         (g)   The Administrator shall review the proposal and submit a written
report and recommendations to the Commission and the applicant; and, at the
public meeting, the Commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat.
         (h)   If granted secondary approval the plat shall be signed by the
designated officials.
         (i)   If not granted secondary approval, then the subdivider shall be
informed as to the insufficiency of his or her submittal.
      (3)   Sectionalizing plats.
         (a)   Prior to granting secondary approval of a major subdivision
plat, the Commission may permit the plat to be divided into 2 or more sections
and may impose conditions upon the filing of the sections as it may deem
necessary to assure the orderly development of the plat.
         (b)   The Commission may require that the performance bond be in such
amount as will be commensurate with the section or sections of the plat to be
filed and may defer the remaining required performance bond principal amount
until the remaining sections of the plat are offered for filing.
         (c)   Sections must contain at least 20 lots or 10% of the total
number of lots contained in the approved plat, whichever is less.
         (d)   The approval of all remaining sections not filed with the
Administrator shall automatically expire after 5 years from the date of primary
approval of the preliminary plat, unless the expiration date has been extended.
   (G)   Signing and recording a plat.
      (1)   Signing of plat.
         (a)   When the filing of a performance bond is required, the
designated officials of the Commission shall endorse approval on the plat by
signing the certificate only after the bond and the construction plans have
been approved, and all the conditions of the primary approval have been
satisfied.
         (b)   When installation of improvements is required, the designated
officials of the Commission shall endorse secondary approval of the plat by
signing the certificate after all conditions of the primary approval have been
satisfied, all improvements satisfactorily completed and accepted for public
maintenance (when required), “as built” construction plans submitted (as
required by §
150.060(B)(5)) and a maintenance bond provided (as required by §
150.062(B)).
         (c)   There shall be written evidence that the required public
facilities have been installed in a manner satisfactory to the participating
jurisdiction as shown by a certificate signed by the appropriate Board of
Works, County Commissioners, Town Council and/or the County Drainage Board that
the necessary improvements have been accomplished.
      (2)   Assurance to subdivider. If the subdivider elects to install all
improvements before he or she applies for secondary approval and it is shown
that the conditions of this section have been met, and if the final plat
completely conforms to the primary approval, the Commission shall have no other
recourse than to grant secondary approval.
      (3)   Recording of final plat.
         (a)   The designated officials shall sign the certificate which shall
be part of the tracing cloth or reproducible mylar of the subdivision plat,
plus 2 mylar prints of the subdivision plat.
         (b)   The mylar prints shall be returned to the subdivider and his or
her engineer or surveyor.
         (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider in the presence
of the Administrator or his or her designee to file the plat with the County
Recorder within 30 days of the date of signature.
         (d)   Failure of the subdivider to file the plat as herein provided
within 30 days shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 3.3) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.023 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General procedures for primary approval. Should the Administrator,
upon examination of the sketch plan application, classify the proposed land
division as a minor subdivision, the subdivider shall follow the procedures and
be subject to the process outlined in division (D), and detailed in this
section. In addition to a sketch plan which is reviewed by the Administrator
and checkpoint agencies for primary approval by the Commission, the applicant
seeking approval of a minor subdivision shall submit for secondary approval a
final subdivision plat which must be found in compliance with the sketch plan
or otherwise approved by the Commission in order to be signed and recorded.
   (B)   Official submission date and placement on the agenda.
      (1)   An application for sketch plan approval shall be submitted no less
than 30 calendar days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission
at which the proposal is intended to be acted upon.
      (2)   The Administrator shall place the application on the agenda of the
first regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission to occur 30 days after the
date on which a complete application is submitted.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 3.3)
   (C)   Sketch plan review process.
      (1)   Within 20 calendar days of the subdivider's sketch plan application
submittal, the Administrator shall have studied the proposal, reviewed
checkpoint reports received, and met with the subdivider to discuss pertinent
aspects of the propose subdivision and possible modifications and/or changes
that may be suggested or required by this chapter.
      (2)   The Administrator shall request that a representative of each
checkpoint agency that wishes to be involved in a sketch plan review be present
to participate in the sketch plan review meeting.
      (3)   In taking into consideration the requirements of this chapter,
particular attention shall be given to sewage disposal, drainage, lot size and
arrangement, the further development of adjoining lands as yet unsubdivided,
and the requirement of the official map or thoroughfare plan and comprehensive
plan as adopted by the participating jurisdictions. Subsequent to the meeting,
the Administrator shall provide the participants with a written record of the
proceedings of that meeting upon written request.
   (D)   Time line approval process for minor subdivisions.
      (1)   Administrator classifies proposed subdivision as a minor
subdivision.
      (2)   At least 30 calendar days prior to a regularly scheduled Commission
meeting, application is made for sketch plan approval.
      (3)   Within 20 calendar days of submittal, the Administrator reviews
sketch plan and check-point agency reports, meets with applicant to discuss
necessary modifications, if any, and makes written report to Commission and
applicant.
      (4)   Ten calendar days prior to initial public meeting, the appropriate
public hearing notifications and postings must have been made.
      (5)   Public meeting is held. The decision to approve, conditionally
approve or disapprove sketch plan is made. Approval of sketch plan is effective
for 2 calendar years.
      (6)   At least 30 calendar days must elapse before secondary approval is
granted.
      (7)   All materials for final sketch plan approval are submitted.
      (8)   Administrative review: within 10 calendar days, the Administrator
reviews all materials and makes written recommendation.
      (9)   Commission review: 30 calendar days prior to public meeting,
written request for Commission review is submitted. At public meeting, approval
or disapproval of sketch plan is determined. Plat may be sectionalized at this
time.
      (10)   Within 30 calendar days of signed approval, plat must be filed
with County Recorder.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Figure 3-3)
   (E)   Administrative review. Subsequent to placement on the agenda, and
prior to the date of public hearing, the Administrator and other appropriate
members of the Commission staff including its Executive Director shall review
the proposal and prepare a written report to the Commission and applicant
indicating a recommendation with regard to the subdivision being proposed.
   (F)   Public hearing notification and sign posting requirements.
      (1)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing on the sketch plan and
notice of hearing shall be in 2 local newspapers of general circulation 10 days
prior to the hearing (per I.C. 5-3-1) at the applicant's expense.
      (2)   At the time of the public hearing, the applicant shall submit an
affidavit stating that the applicant has placed posters provided by the
Administrator (advising interested parties of the hearing) at the locations
designated by the Administrator on the proposed subdivision property at least
10 days prior to the public hearing and show proofs of publication that the
notices of public hearing were published at least 10 days in advance of the
hearing.
      (3)   Interested parties shall also be notified by the applicant of the
date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing on the subdivision at least
10 days in advance of the hearing by certified mail or in person.
      (4)   The applicant shall file with the Commission at the time of the
public hearing an affidavit so testifying, along with the certified mail
receipts provide by the post office.
   (G)   Primary approval of the sketch plan.
      (1)   After the Commission has at a regularly scheduled hearing, examined
the sketch plan, Administrator's report, checkpoint recommendations, testimony
and exhibits submitted, the Commission shall, at a regularly scheduled meeting,
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the sketch plan. One copy of the
sketch plan shall be returned to the applicant with the date of approval,
conditional approval or disapproval and the reasons therefore accompanying the
sketch plan within 5 days after the public meeting.
      (2)   Primary approval by the Commission is subject to judicial review.
      (3)   Secondary approval of a subdivision cannot occur until the minimum
of 30 days has elapsed since the granting of primary approval or conditional
approval per I.C. 36-7-4-708(d).
Statutory reference:
   Paragraph (d) of the statute cited in division (G)(3) was repealed by P.L.
126-2011, § 19.
   (H)   Effective period of primary approval.
      (1)   Unless extended, the primary approval of a minor sketch plan shall
be effective for a period of 2 years after the date of primary approval, at the
end of which secondary approval of the subdivision must have been obtained and
certified by the President and Secretary of the Commission.
      (2)   Any plats not receiving secondary approval within the period of
time set forth herein shall be null and void, and the developer shall be
required to resubmit a new application for sketch plan review and certificate,
subject to all the zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations in effect at
the time of resubmission.
      (3)   Upon written application of the applicant, the Commission may
extend the primary approval of a minor sketch plan in increments of 2 years
beyond an expiration date without further notice and public hearing.
   (I)   Final subdivision plat procedure for secondary approval.
      (1)   Application requirements. Following approval or conditional
approval of the sketch plan, the applicant, if he or she wishes to proceed with
the subdivision, shall file with the Administrator a request for secondary
approval of the final plat. The application shall:
         (a)   Be submitted on forms available at the office of the Commission;
         (b)   Include the entire subdivision or section thereof;
         (c)   Be accompanied by 10 copies of the final subdivision plat as
described in this chapter;
         (d)   Totally comply with this chapter and the terms are conditions of
approval;
         (e)   Be accompanied by the performance bond, if required, in a form
satisfactory to the Commission Attorney and in an amount established by the
Commission upon recommendation of the participating jurisdiction and shall
guarantee the completion of all required subdivision and off-site public
improvements; and
         (f)   Be accompanied by restrictive covenants in a form approved by
the Commission.
      (2)   Determination of a conformance (secondary approval).
         (a)   In order to be recorded, a final subdivision plat shall either
be found to be in conformance with the primary approval by the Commission at a
public meeting.
         (b)   If the final subdivision plat deviates from the sketch plan that
received primary approval, the subdivision shall be resubmitted to the
Commission at a public hearing for a new primary approval.
         (c)   Should the subdivider not choose Commission review the
Administrator shall within 10 working days review the items submitted as per
this chapter in order to ascertain conformance with the primary approval. If
the submission is found to be in conformance and complete, the Administrator
shall recommend the signing of the certificate granting secondary approval.
         (d)   Should the subdivider choose Commission review, the Commission
shall determine conformance with primary approval at a public meeting. The
subdivider shall request in writing Commission review no less than 30 calendar
days prior to the date of the public meeting at which he or she intends to have
his or her final plat reviewed.
         (e)   The Commission shall place the matter on its next regular
meeting agenda; the Administrator shall review the proposal and submit a
written report and recommendations to the Commission and the applicant; and, at
public meeting, the Commission shall give secondary approval or disapproval of
the final plat.
         (f)   If approved it shall be signed by the designated officers of the
Commission. If not approved, the subdivider shall be informed as to the
insufficiency of his or her submittal.
      (3)   Sectionalizing plats.
         (a)   Prior to granting secondary approval of a minor subdivision
plat, the Commission may permit the plat to be divided into 2 or more sections
and may impose conditions upon the filing of the sections as it may deem
necessary to assure the orderly development of the plat.
         (b)   The Commission may require that the performance bond be in an
amount as is commensurate with the section or sections of the plat to bond
principal amount until the remaining sections of the plat are offered for
filing.
   (J)   Signing and recording a plat.
      (1)   Signing of plat.
         (a)   When the filing of a performance bond is required, the
designated officials of the Commission shall endorse approval on the plat by
signing the certificate after the bond and the construction plans have been
approved, and all the conditions of the primary approval have been satisfied.
         (b)   When installation of improvements is required the designated
officials of the Commission shall endorse approval on the plat by signing the
certificate after all conditions of the primary approval have been satisfied,
all improvements satisfactorily completed and accepted for public maintenance
(when required), “as built” construction plans submitted (as required by §
150.060(B)(5), and a maintenance bond provided (as required by §
150.062).
         (c)   There shall be written evidence that the required public
facilities have been installed in a manner satisfactory to the participating
jurisdiction as shown by a certificate signed by the appropriate Board of
Works, County Commissioners, Town Council and/or the County Drainage Board that
the necessary improvements have been accomplished.
      (2)   Assurance to subdivider. If the subdivider elects to install all
improvements before he or she applies for secondary approval and it is shown
that the conditions of this section have been met, and if the final plat
completely conforms to the primary approval, the Commission shall have no other
recourse than to grant secondary approval.
      (3)   Recording of plat.
         (a)   The designated officials shall sign the certificate granting
secondary approval which shall be a part of the tracing cloth or reproducible
mylar of the subdivision plat, plus 2 Mylar prints of the subdivision plat. The
mylar prints shall be returned to the applicant and his or her engineer or
surveyor.
         (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider in the presence
of the Commission's Administrator or his or her designee to file the plat with
the County Recorder within 30 days of the date of signature. Failure of the
subdivider to file the plat as herein provided within 30 days shall constitute
a violation of this chapter.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 3.4) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.024 EXEMPT DIVISIONS.
   (A)   General procedure for Exempt I divisions.
      (1)   In order for a land division to be considered an Exempt I division
the information prescribed for the applicable type of division under §
150.079 shall be submitted to the Administrator so that he or she can determine
whether the division meets the provisions of the definition and §
150.020 for the classification and therefore can issue to the subdivider a
statement of compliance to the applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Both the subdivider and the Administrator shall hold copies of the
statement of compliance.
      (3)   When the parcel so exempted by this statement is conveyed to
another party the copy of the instrument of conveyance shall be recorded with
the County Recorder bearing a stamp of approval signed by the Administrator
indicating that the statement of compliance has been obtained as ascertained by
the copy(s) of the statement which have been held for this purpose.
   (B)   General procedure for Exempt II divisions. In order for a land
division to be considered an Exempt II division and thus be exempted from all
other provisions of this chapter except the definitional requirements in §
150.003 under SUBDIVISIONS, the requirements of §
150.020 and the information requirements of §
150.024(C), certain conditions shall be met and certified to the appropriate
agency by the Administrator after his or her determination of qualification for
this status has been made.
   (C)   Necessary conditions for Exempt II divisions. In addition to
definitional requirements and §
150.020, a land division qualifying as an Exempt II division shall be shown as
meeting the following conditions.
      (1)   If a parcel created by an exempt division does not have sanitary
sewer service available to it, that tract shall contain within its boundaries
sufficient soil of a kind defined by Indiana State Board of Health Bulletin
HOSED 25-R or its successor to allow for the proper installation of an on-site
disposal system.
      (2)   If a parcel created by an exempt division has frontage on a public
road, the land divider shall dedicate to the public real property of a width
sufficient to meet 1/2 of the required right-of-way width for that specific
public road as indicated on the town thoroughfare plan or the official map and
of a length along that public road equal to the length of that parcel along
that roadway.
      (3)   If a parcel created by an exempt division has frontage on a public
road, the depth of that parcel shall not be greater than twice the length of
that frontage, the depth being measured from the front lot line to the rear lot
line of the parcel.
      (4)   If a parcel created by an exempt division requires a private
roadway because the parcel lacks frontage on a public road, the roadway shall
either be fully constructed in accordance with the following minimum standards
prior to the issuance of a building permit or be adequately assured to the
permit issuer's satisfaction that it will be constructed to the following
minimum standards:
         (a)   Minimum width of 16 feet;
         (b)   Minimum depth of 8 inches of Types P or O made stone or gravel.
A private roadway need only provide access as far as the parcel's property line
and is not intended to include any individual drive within the parcel; and
         (c)   An easement covering the roadway be recorded granting access to
the parcel over the private roadway.
   (D)   Certification of Exempt II divisions. As the conditions in division
(B) above apply, the land divider shall provide to the Administrator:
      (1)   Written evidence that the County Board of Health has been satisfied
by a duly authorized representative of a qualified soil testing service as to
the presence within the parcel of sufficient soil of a kind defined by Indiana
State Board of Health Bulletin HOSED 25 R or its successor to allow for the
proper installation of an on-site septic sewage disposal system;
      (2)   Official documentation indicating the dedication of right-of-way to
the appropriate jurisdiction;
      (3)   A metes and bounds description of the parcel being created
indicating that its depth is no more than twice the frontage; and
      (4)   A notarized affidavit assuring construction of a private roadway to
the standards previously indicated, prior to the issuance of a building permit
for that parcel.
   (E)   Exempt division review process. Within 3 working days of the land
divider's complete submission of the required information in the case of Exempt
I Divisions (§
150.079) or the required information and certification (division (D) above) in
the case of Exempt II Divisions, the Administrator shall review the submission
and notify the land divider that his or her proposed land division either
qualifies as an exempt division and is thus exempt from all the provisions of
this chapter, or does not qualify as an exempt division and is thus subject to
the relevant subdivision processes described in this chapter.
   (F)   Dissolution.
      (1)   A recorded Exempt II division or portion thereof may be dissolved
by the property owner or owners if, in doing so, no provision of this or any
other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute or provision of law is violated. To
do so, 10 copies of a statement dissolving the Exempt II division (or any part
of it) shall be submitted to the Administrator for review of compliance with
above-stated ordinances, rules and the like. This statement, signed by all
legal owners, contract buyers and optionees of the property and notarized,
shall contain the Exempt II division number assigned by the Administrator and
legal descriptions of the parcels involved.
      (2)   Upon a finding of compliance, the Administrator or his or her
designee shall sign all 10 statements. Once signed, the approved dissolution is
eligible to be recorded.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the land divider in the presence
of the Administrator or his or her designee to file the approved dissolution
with the County auditor and recorder within 30 days of the date signature.
Failure of the land divider to so file and record shall automatically
invalidate the approval, rendering it null and void and requiring a complete
resubmittal for approval.
      (4)   Upon recording the dissolution statement, the landowner is once
more eligible to pursue the full Exempt II division process as per this
section. That is, the land involved, for purposes of land division, is restored
to its Pre-Exempt II division status.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 3.5)
REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, RESERVATIONS AND DESIGN
§ 150.035 GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Conformance to applicable rules and regulations.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdivision
plats shall comply with the following laws, rules and regulations:
         (a)   All applicable state and local statutory provisions;
         (b)   The Town Zoning Chapter, Building and Housing Codes, and all
other applicable laws and ordinances of the appropriate jurisdictions;
         (c)   The comprehensive plan, official map or thoroughfare plan,
public utilities plan and capital improvements program of the town including
all streets, drainage systems and parks shown on the official map or
comprehensive plan as adopted;
         (d)   The special requirements of this chapter and any rules of the
Health Department and/or appropriate state agencies;
         (e)   The rules and regulations of the Indiana Department of Highways
if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abut a state highway or state
frontage road;
         (f)   The highway and drainage standards and regulations adopted by
the county engineer and all boards, commissions, agencies and officials of the
town; and
         (g)   All pertinent standards contained within still valid planning
guides published by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in conformity
with the above guides and requirements or with the policies and purposes
established in §
150.004(B).
   (B)   Self-imposed restrictions. If the owner places restrictions on any of
the land contained in the subdivision greater than those required by the Zoning
Chapter or this chapter, the restrictions or reference thereto may be required
to be indicated on the subdivision plat, or the Commission may require that
restrictive covenants be recorded with the County Recorder in a form to be
approved by the Commission attorney.
   (C)   Plats straddling municipal boundaries. Whenever access to the
subdivision is required across land in another jurisdiction the Commission may
request assurance from the County Attorney that access is legally established,
and from the county engineer that the access road is adequately improved, or
that a performance bond has been duly executed and is sufficient in the amount
to assure the construction of the access road. Lot lines shall be laid out so
as not to cross municipal boundary lines.
   (D)   Boundary improvements.
      (1)   The subdivider shall have placed, under the supervision of a
registered land surveyor, concrete monuments 4 inches square or 4 inches in
diameter and 40 inches long with an iron pipe cast in the center, at each
corner or angle of the ultimate outside boundary. They shall be set following
grading of each phase of the subdivision.
      (2)   The subdivider shall have placed, under the supervision of a
registered land surveyor, pipes or steel rods, 3/4 of an inch in diameter by 30
inches in length at the corners of each lot. They shall be set prior to the
issuance of any building permit.
   (E)   Character of the land. Land which the Commission finds to be
unsuitable for subdivision or development because of flooding, improper
drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth formations or
topography, utility easements or other features which might reasonably be
harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of the present or future
inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding areas, shall not be
subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by the developer
and approved by the Commission, upon recommendation of the town engineer, to
solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions. This land shall
be set aside for uses permitted by the Zoning Chapter as shall not involve any
danger.
   (F)   Subdivision name. The proposed name of the subdivision shall not
duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other
subdivision in the area covered by this chapter. The Commission shall have
final authority to designate the name of the subdivision which shall be
determined at the time of primary approval.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.1) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.036 LOT IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Lot arrangement. The lot arrangement shall be so that there will be no
foreseeable difficulties for reasons of topography or other conditions in
securing building permits to build on each of the created lots in compliance
with the Zoning Chapter and Health Regulations and in providing driveway access
to buildings on lots from the appropriate approved street.
   (B)   Lot dimensions.
      (1)   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards in the
Zoning Chapter. Where lots are more than double the minimum required area for
the zoning district, the Commission may require that the lots be arranged so as
to allow further subdivision and the opening of future streets where they would
be necessary to serve all potential lots in compliance with the Zoning Chapter
and this chapter.
      (2)   In general, side lot lines shall be at right angles to the street
lines (or radial to curving street lines) unless a variation from this rule
will give a better street or lot plan. Dimensions of corner lots shall be large
enough to allow for the erection of a building, observing the minimum front
yard setback from both streets.
      (3)   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for business,
commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for all of the
off-site parking and loading facilities required for the type of use and
development contemplated, as established in the Zoning Chapter.
   (C)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall
be avoided except where necessary to provide for the separation of residential
development from the traffic on bordering arterials or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation affecting the subdivided lots.
   (D)   Access from primary and secondary arterials.
      (1)   Lots shall not, in general, derive access from a primary or
secondary arterial street.
      (2)   Where driveway access from a primary or secondary arterial street
may be the only possible access for several adjoining lots, the Commission may
require that the lots be served by a combined access drive in order to limit
possible traffic hazards from multiple access to the streets.
      (3)   Where possible, driveways should be designed and arranged so as to
avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on primary or secondary
arterials.
   (E)   Soil preservation, grading and seeding.
      (1)   Soil preservation and final grading. No certificates of occupancy
shall be issued until final grading has been completed in accordance with the
approved construction plans and the lot recovered with top soil having an
average depth of at least 6 inches which shall contain no particles over 2
inches in diameter over the entire area of the lot, except that portion covered
by buildings or included in streets, or where the grade has not been changed or
natural vegetation seriously damaged. Topsoil shall not be removed from
residential lots or used as spoil, but shall be redistributed so as to provide
at least 6 inches of cover between the sidewalks and curbs, and shall be
stabilized by seeding or planting.
      (2)   Lot drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive
drainage away from all buildings and individual lot drainage shall be
coordinated with the general storm water drainage pattern for the area.
Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid the accumulation of storm water on
any one or more lots from adjacent lots. It shall be the responsibility of the
lot owner to maintain type lot grade, as it applies to drainage, as provided
for in the approved construction plans.
      (3)   Lawn-grass seed and sod.
         (a)   Lawn-grass seed shall be sown at not less than 4 pounds to each
1,000 square feet of land area. The seed shall be sown between March 15 and
September 30.
         (b)   The seed shall consist of a maximum of 10% rye grass by weight
and a minimum of 90% perennial grass.
         (c)   All seed shall have been tested for germination within 1 year of
the date of seeding, and the date of testing shall be on the label containing
the seed analysis.
         (d)   All lots shall be seeded from the road side edge of the unpaved
right-of-way back to distance of 25 feet behind the principal building on the
lot.
         (e)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until respreading of
soil and seeding of lawn has been completed; except that between October 15 and
March 15 and between May 15 and August 15, the applicant shall submit an
agreement in writing signed by the developer and the property owner, with a
copy to the building permit official, that respreading of soil and seeding of
the lawn will be done during the immediately following planting season as set
forth above in this section, and leave a cash escrow for performance in an
amount as shall be determined by the building permit official. Sod may be used
to comply with any requirement of seeding set forth herein.
   (F)   Debris and waste. No cut trees, timber, debris, junk, rubbish or other
waste material of any kind shall be buried in any land, or left or deposited on
any lot or street at the time of occupancy within a subdivision, nor shall any
be left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at the time of expiration
of the performance bond or dedication of public improvements, whichever is
sooner.
   (G)   Fencing. Each subdivider and/or developer shall be required to furnish
and install fences wherever the Commission determines that a hazardous
condition may exist. The fences shall be constructed according to standards
established by the town engineer and shall be noted as to height and material
on the final plat. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the fence
improvements have been duly installed.
   (H)   Water bodies and watercourses.
      (1)   If a tract being subdivided contains a water body, or portion
thereof, lot lines shall be so drawn as to distribute the entire ownership of
the water body among the owners of adjacent lots.
      (2)   The Commission may approve an alternative allocation of interests
whereby the ownership of and responsibility for safe maintenance of the water
body is so placed that it will not become a local government responsibility. No
part of the minimum area of a lot required under the Zoning Chapter may be
satisfied by land which is under water.
      (3)   Where a watercourse separates the buildable area of a lot from the
street from which it has access, provisions shall be made for installation of a
culvert or other structure, of a design approved by the town engineer.
   (I)   Performance bond to include lot improvement. The performance bond
shall include an amount to guarantee completion of all requirement contained in
§
150.036 including, but not limited to, soil preservation, final grading, lot
drainage, lawn-grass seeding, removal of debris and waste, fencing and all
other lot improvements required by the Commission. Whether or not a certificate
of occupancy has been issued, at the expiration of the performance bond, the
town may enforce the provisions of the bond where compliance with the
provisions of this section or any other applicable law, ordinance or regulation
has not occurred.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.2) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.037 STREETS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided
shall have frontage on and access from an existing street on the official map,
or if there is not an official map, unless a street is:
         (a)   An existing state, county or township highway; or
         (b)   A street shown upon a plat approved by the Commission and
recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds. The street or highway
must be suitably improved as required by the highway rules, regulation
specifications, or orders, or be secured by a performance bond required under
this chapter, with the width and right-of-way required by this chapter or as
indicated on the official map or thoroughfare plan.
      (2)   Whenever the area to be subdivided is to use an existing street
frontage, the street shall be suitably improved as provided herein below.
   (B)   Grading and improvement plan. Streets shall be graded and improved and
conform to the town construction standards and specifications and shall be
approved as to design and specifications by the town engineer, in accordance
with the construction plans required to be submitted prior to secondary
approval.
   (C)   Topography and arrangement.
      (1)   Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. All
streets shall be arranged so as to maintain as many as possible of the building
sites at, or above, the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall conform
as closely as possible to the original topography. A combination of steep
grades and sharp curves shall be avoided. Specific standards are contained in
the design standards of this chapter.
      (2)   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of-way as established on
the official map or thoroughfare plan and/or comprehensive plan.
      (3)   All arterials and collector streets shall be properly related to
special traffic generators such as industries, business districts, schools,
churches and shopping centers, to population densities; and to the pattern of
existing and proposed land uses.
      (4)   Minor or local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as
possible to the topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary to provide convenient and safe access to the property.
      (5)   Rigid, rectangular “gridiron” street patterns are generally to be
avoided, and the use of casually curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs or loop
streets shall be encouraged where the use will result in a more desirable lay-
out and relate better to the existing topography. On flat land, innovative,
varying geometrical street patterns shall be encouraged where they are likely
to enhance visual interest and a sense of order for those using them (e.g. non-
grid rectilinear, trapezoidal, polygonal or other geometric patterns).
      (6)   Proposed streets shall, where appropriate, be extended to the
boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided unless this is prevented by
topography or other physical conditions, or unless in the opinion of the Plan
Commission the extension(s) is/are not necessary or desirable for the
coordination of the layout of the subdivision under consideration with the
existing street layout or for the most advantageous future development of
adjacent tracts (see division (K)(1) below).
      (7)   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
access ways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, walkways, bikeways and parking areas so as to minimize
conflict of movement between the various types of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic.
   (D)   Blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for 2 tiers of lots
of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to arterial streets, railroads and waterways.
      (2)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but
block lengths in residential areas shall not exceed 2,600 feet not be less than
400 feet in length. Blocks along arterials and collector streets shall not be
less than 1,000 feet in length.
      (3)   In long blocks the Commission may require the reservation of
easements through the block to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities or
pedestrian traffic. Pedestrian ways or crosswalks not less than 10 feet wide,
may be required by the Commission through the center of blocks more than 800
feet long or at other appropriate locations and at the ends of the cul-de-sacs
where deemed essential to provide for circulation or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation or other community facilities.
Block designed for industrial uses shall be of a length and width as may be
suitable by the Commission for the intended use.
   (E)   Access to collector streets. Where possible, lots in single family
residential subdivisions fronting on collector streets shall be avoided and
lots at the corners of intersections between local and collector streets shall
front on the local street and have driveway access to it only and not to the
collector street. In multiple family residential areas entrances to group
parking lots shall have access onto collector streets (where possible) and
entrances shall be widely spaced.
   (F)   Access to primary arterials. Where a subdivision borders on or
contains an existing or proposed primary arterial, the Commission may require
that access to it be limited by 1 of the following means:
      (1)   The subdivision of the lots so as to back onto the primary arterial
and front into a parallel local street; no access shall be provided from the
primary arterial and screening shall be provided within a strip of land along
the rear property line of the lots;
      (2)   A series of cul-de-sacs, or loop streets entered from, and designed
generally to be at right angles to an access street that at some distance from
and parallel to the arterial street, with the real lines of their terminal lots
backing onto the arterial; or
      (3)   A marginal access or service road (separated from the primary
arterial by a landscaped and/or decoratively fenced grass strip and having
access thereto at widely spaced suitable points).
   (G)   Street names.
      (1)   The sketch plan, as submitted, shall indicate names of proposed
streets.
      (2)   As part of his or her review the Administrator shall refer proposed
street names to the local postmaster for his or her comments regarding
duplication of names and possible confusion.
      (3)   After reviewing them the Administrator shall inform the subdivider
of his or her recommendations for their possible revision during the sketch
plan review.
      (4)   Names shall be sufficiently different in sound and in spelling from
other street names in the town or other nearby areas so as to avoid confusion.
A street which is, or is planned as, a continuation of an existing street shall
bear the same name.
   (H)   Street regulatory signs. The applicant shall provide and install a
street sign at every street intersection within his or her subdivision as
required by the town engineer. The town shall inspect and approve all street
signs before issuance of certificates of occupancy for any building on the
approved streets.
   (I)   Street lights. Installation of street lights shall be required in
accordance with design and specification standards approved by the town
engineer. Street light standards and fixtures shall also be in accordance with
the visual design standards of the town Design Review Committee.
   (J)   Reserve strips. The creation of reserve strips shall not be permitted
adjacent to a proposed street in a manner so as to deny access to it from
adjacent property if the street is a local service street rather than a
collector or arterial street. (See divisions (E) and (F) above).
   (K)   Construction of streets.
      (1)   Construction of streets other than cul-de-sacs.
         (a)   The arrangement of streets shall provide for the continuation of
streets between adjacent subdivisions or other properties when continuation is
necessary for the convenient movement of traffic, for effective fire
protection, for efficient provision of utilities and where continuation is in
accordance with the comprehensive plan.
         (b)   If the adjacent property is undeveloped and the street must be a
dead-end street temporarily, the right-of-way shall be provided for all
temporary dead-end streets, with the notation on the subdivision plat that land
outside the normal street right-of-way shall revert to abutters whenever the
street is continued.
         (c)   Temporary turnarounds must be provided at the ends of stub
streets. The Commission may limit the length of temporary dead-end streets in
accordance with the design standards in this chapter.
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs (permanent dead-end streets). Where a street does not
extend beyond the boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not
required by the Commission for access to adjoining property, its terminus shall
normally not be nearer to the boundary than 50 feet. However, the Commission
may require the reservation of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage
facilities, pedestrian traffic, or utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be
provided at the end of a permanent dead-end street in accordance with town
construction standards and specifications available from the town engineer's
office. For greater convenience to traffic an more effective police and fire
protection, permanent dead-end streets shall be limited in length in accordance
with the design standards in this chapter.
   (L)   Design standards.
      (1)   General. In order to provide for streets of suitable location,
width and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford
satisfactory access for police, fire-fighting, snow removal, sanitation and
street maintenance equipment, and to coordinate street location in order to
achieve a convenient system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties,
the following design standards for streets are hereby required.
      (2)   Street surfacing and improvements.
         (a)   After sewer and water utilities have been installed by the
developer, the applicant shall construct curb and gutters and shall surface or
cause the roadways to be surfaced to the widths prescribed in this chapter.
         (b)   Surfacing shall be of a character that is suitable for the
expected traffic and in harmony with similar improvements in the surrounding
areas.
         (c)   Types of pavement shall be as determined by the town engineer.
Adequate provision shall be made for culverts, drains and bridges.
         (d)   All street pavement, shoulders, drainage improvements and
structures, curbs, turnarounds and sidewalks shall conform to all construction
standards and specifications adopted by the Commission, town engineer or the
town and shall be incorporated into the construction plans required to be
submitted by the developer for plat approval.
      (3)   Excess right-of-way. Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards
designed in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide for adequate and stable earth slopes.
Slopes shall not be in excess of 3 to 1.
      (4)   Railroads and limited access highways. Railroad rights-of-way and
limited access highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of
adjoining lands shall be treated as follows.
         (a)   In residential districts a buffer strip at least 25 feet in
depth in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall
be provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway.
         (b)   This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be
designated on the plat: “This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of
structures thereon other than earth berms, walls, fences and other landscape
screening devices approved by the Commission is prohibited.”
         (c)   In districts zoned for business, commercial or industrial uses,
the nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to a railroad
shall, whenever practical, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure a
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
         (d)   Streets parallel to a railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way.
         (e)   The distance shall be determined with due consideration of the
minimum distance required for future separator of grades by means of
appropriate approach gradients.
      (5)   Intersections.
         (a)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles. A proposed intersection of 2 new streets at an angle
of less than 75 degrees shall not be acceptable. An oblique street should be
approximately at right angles for at least 100 feet therefrom. Not more than 2
streets shall intersect at any 1 point unless specifically approved by the
Commission.
         (b)   Proposed new intersections along 1 side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersection on the
opposite side of the street. Street jogs with center-line offsets of less than
150 feet shall not be permitted except where the intersected street has
separated, dual drives, without median breaks at either intersection. Where
local streets intersect with arterials, their alignment shall be continuous.
Intersections of arterials shall be at least 800 feet apart.
         (c)   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of 2 local streets shall
be at least 20 feet; and minimum curb radius at an intersection involving a
collector street shall be at least 25 feet. Alley intersections and abrupt
changes in alignment within a block shall have the corners cut off in
accordance with standard engineering practice to permit safe vehicular
movement.
         (d)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a 2% grade at a
distance of 60 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the
intersecting street.
         (e)   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or
existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by
limiting visibility, the developer shall cut the ground and/or vegetation
(including trimming trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-
of-way to the extent deemed necessary by the town engineer to provide an
adequate sight distance.
         (f)   The cross-slopes on all streets, including intersections shall
be 3% or less.
      (6)   Bridges.
         (a)   Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by
the Commission, shall be constructed at the full expense of the applicant
without reimbursement from the town.
         (b)   The sharing of expense for the construction of bridges not of
primary benefit to the applicant as determined by the Commission, will be fixed
by special agreement between the town and the applicant.
         (c)   Costs shall be charged to the applicant pro-rata as the
percentage of his or her land developed and so served.
   (M)   Street dedications and reservations.
      (1)   New perimeter streets.
         (a)   Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so as to
eliminate or avoid new perimeter half-streets.
         (b)   Where an existing half-street is adjacent to a new subdivision,
the other half of the street shall be improved an dedicated by the subdivider.
         (c)   The Commission may authorize a new perimeter street where the
subdivider improves and dedicates the entire required right-of-way width within
his or her own subdivision's boundaries.
      (2)   Widening and realignment of existing streets. Where a subdivision
borders an existing narrow street or when the comprehensive plan, official map,
thoroughfare plan, or zoning setback requirements indicate plans for
realignment or widening of a street that would require use of some of the land
in the subdivision, the applicant shall be required to improve and dedicate
streets at his or her own expense. Frontage streets and other streets on which
subdivision lots front shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant at his
or her own expense to the full width required by this subdivision control
ordinance. Land reserved for any street purposes may not be counted in
satisfying the yard or area requirements of the Zoning Chapter.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.3)
§ 150.038 DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   The Commission shall not recommend for approval any subdivision
plat which does not make adequate provision for storm or flood water runoff
channels or basins.
      (2)   The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent
of any sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by the rational
method, or other methods as approved by the Commission and the County Drainage
Board, and a copy of the design computations shall be submitted along with the
plans.
      (4)   Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried
across or around any intersection, nor for a distance of more than 600 feet in
the gutter or when the encroachment of storm water into the street disrupts
traffic.
      (5)   When calculations indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a
point, no further allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point and catch
basins or inlets shall be used to intercept flow at that point.
      (6)   Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown for each and every
lot and block.
      (7)   The rational method is described in Chapter 3 of the Counties and
Cities, School of Civil Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, May
1981, hereinafter referred to as Drainage Manual.
   (B)   Nature of storm water facilities.
      (1)   Location. The applicant may be required by the Commission to carry
away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist, either
previously to, or as result of the subdivision. Drainage facilities shall be
located in the street right-of-way where feasible, or in perpetual,
unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed in
accordance with the town's construction standards and specifications.
      (2)   Accessibility to public storm sewers.
         (a)   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of storm water,
subject to the specifications of the town engineer. However, in subdivisions
containing lots of less than 15,000 square feet in area and in business and
industrial districts, underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed
throughout the subdivision and be conducted to an approved outfall. Inspection
of facilities shall be conducted by the town engineer.
         (b)   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided
eventually, as determined by the town engineer and the Commission, the
developer shall make arrangements for future storm water disposal by the public
utility system at the time the plat receives final approval. Cost provision(s)
for connection(s) shall be incorporated by inclusion in the amount of the
performance bond or equivalent required for the subdivision plat.
      (3)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas.
         (a)   A culvert or other drainage facility shall in each case be large
enough to accommodate potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area,
whether inside or outside the subdivision.
         (b)   The town engineer shall determine the necessary size of the
facility, based on the provisions the required construction standards and
specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development
permitted by the Zoning Chapter.
      (4)   Effect on downstream drainage areas.
         (a)   The town engineer shall determine the effect of each proposed
subdivision on existing drainage facilities outside the area of the
subdivision. Town drainage studies together with other studies as may be
available and appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed improvements.
         (b)   Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to
the development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream
drainage facility, the Commission may withhold secondary approval of the
subdivision until provision (such as a storage facility) has been made for the
improvement of the potential condition in a sum as the Commission shall
determine.
         (c)   No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate drainage from
it will be provided to an adequate drainage water course or facility.
      (5)   Areas of poor drainage. Areas which are not in the flood plain but
contain soils which are subject to flooding may be approved for subdivision by
the Commission, provided that the subdivider fills the affected areas of the
subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place building sites and streets 2
feet above ponding levels.
      (6)   Areas of high seasonal water tables. In areas characterized by
soils having a high seasonal water table as determined by the Steuben County
Soil and Water Conservation District, lots shall be limited to slab type
construction unless the Commission determines that appropriate engineering
techniques will be applied to alleviate subsurface problems.
      (7)   Floodway areas. If a subdivision of land is proposed within the
flood plain, floodways shall be preserved and not diminishes in capacity by
filling or obstruction, except as approved by the Natural Resources Commission
in writing. No residential building site may be located within the floodway.
      (8)   Floodway fringe areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an
area of the flood plain designated as a floodway fringe, the Commission may
approve the subdivision provided that: all streets are elevated sufficiently to
be above the regulatory flood elevation; all lots for residential usage have a
flood protection grade 2 feet above the regulatory flood elevation; where
provided, water and sanitary sewer facilities are constructed to eliminate
contamination of or by, flood water; and approval to fill the area from the
Natural Resources Commission has been obtained in writing. Lands below the
regulatory flood elevation shall not be used for computing the area requirement
for any lot.
      (9)   Flood plain areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an area
of the flood plain for which floodway and floodway fringe designations have not
been made, the Commission shall not approve the subdivision unless all streets
are raised sufficiently to be above the regulatory flood elevation; all lots
for residential usage have a flood protection grade of 2 feet above the
regulatory flood elevation; where provided, public water and sanitary sewer
facilities are constructed to eliminate contamination of or by flood water;
and, filling to achieve the above will not raise the level of the regulatory
flood elevation more than 1/10 of 1 foot for that reach of the stream. All
filling in the flood plain must be approved in writing by the Indiana Natural
Resources Commission. Lands below the regulatory flood elevation shall not be
used for computing the area requirement for any lot.
      (10)   Recording of plats in the flood plain and floodway fringe. All
final plats having within their boundaries areas whose elevation is below that
of the regulatory flood elevation shall show a label the regulatory flood
boundary and elevation, as of the date the final plat is drawn, on the final
plat for recording.
   (C)   Dedication of drainage easements.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a drainage course, drainage
way, channel or stream, a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way shall
be provided, granted or dedicated to the town conforming substantially to the
lines of the watercourse, and of a width and construction or both as will be
adequate for the purpose of both drainage and maintenance of the right-of-way.
         (b)   Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage be
maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for
maximum potential volume of flow.
      (2)   Drainage easements.
         (a)   Where topography or other conditions are so as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within street right-of-way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the right-of-way lines and
with satisfactory access to the street. Easements shall be indicated on the
plat. Drainage easements shall be carried from the street to a natural
watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
         (b)   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation, easement land on both sides of existing watercourses of width to
be determined by the Commission and, in case of legal drains, the County
Drainage Board.
         (c)   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage right must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
         (d)   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage
ways.
         (e)   Land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be included
in the computations for determining the number of lots allowable under average
density procedures nor for computing the area requirements for any individual
lot.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.4) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.039 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   The applicant shall take all actions necessary to extend or create
a water-supply district for the purpose of providing a water-supply system
capable of providing for domestic water use and fire protection.
      (2)   (a)   Where a public water main is accessible the subdivider shall
install adequate water facilities (including fire hydrants) conforming to the
requirements and specifications of the state or local authorities.
         (b)   All water mains shall be at least 6 inches in diameter.
      (3)   Water main extensions shall be approved by the officially
designated agency of the state, county or municipality concerned.
      (4)   To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants, water
supply improvements and the boundary lines of proposed districts indicating all
improvements proposed to be served, shall be shown on the preliminary plat, and
the cost of installing same shall be included in the performance bond to be
furnished by the subdivider.
      (5)   The design of all water facilities shall conform to or exceed the
standards described in the latest edition of Recommended Standard for Water
Works as published by Health Education Service, Inc, Albany, New York.
   (B)   Individual wells and central water systems.
      (1)   In low-density zoning districts, if a public water system is not
available, at the discretion of the Commission, individual wells may be used or
a central water system provided in a manner so that an adequate supply of
potable water will be available to every lot in the subdivision.
      (2)   Water sample test results shall be submitted to the Health
Department for its approval, and individual wells and central water systems
shall be approved by the appropriate health authorities. These approvals shall
be submitted to the Commission.
      (3)   If the Commission requires that a connection to a public water main
be eventually provided as a condition for approval of an individual well or
central water system, the applicant shall make arrangements for future water
service at the time the plat receives secondary approval. Performance or cash
bonds may be required to ensure compliance.
   (C)   Fire hydrants. Hydrants should be provided at each street intersection
and at intermediate points between intersections as recommended by the State
Insurance Services Office and the Local Fire Department. Generally, hydrant
spacing may range from 350 to 500 feet depending on the nature of the area
being served as determined by the Water Superintendent.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.5) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.040 SEWER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Requirements. All requirements of this section are subject to the
Fremont Sewer Use and Rate Chapter.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   The subdivider shall install sanitary sewer facilities in a manner
prescribed by the town construction standards and specifications.
      (2)   All plans shall be designed in accordance with the rules,
regulations, and standards of the town engineer, Health Department and other
appropriate state and federal agencies.
      (3)   In addition, the design shall meet or exceed the minimum standards
described in the latest edition of Recommended Standards for Sewage Works as
published by the Health Education Service, Albany, New York, and plans shall be
approved by the all state and federal agencies where required by those
agencies.
   (C)   Sanitary sewerage system requirements. Where provided, sanitary
sewerage facilities shall connect with public sanitary sewerage systems, and
shall be installed to serve each lot to grades and sizes required by approving
officials and agencies. Sanitary sewage facilities (including the installation
of laterals in the right-of-way) shall be subject to the specifications, rules,
regulations and guidelines of the Health Officer, participating jurisdiction
and appropriate state agency.
   (D)   Individual disposal system requirements. If public sewer facilities
are not available and individual disposal systems are proposed, minimum lot
areas shall conform to the requirements of the Zoning Chapter and any ordinance
of any participating jurisdiction (where applicable) establishing lot areas for
individual sewerage disposal systems.
   (E)   Selected design criteria.
      (1)   Alignment. All sewers shall be laid with a straight alignment
between manholes, unless otherwise directed or approved by the town engineer.
      (2)   Manhole location. Manholes shall be installed at the end of each
line, and at distances not greater than 400 feet for sewers 18 inches in
diameter and larger.
      (3)   Manholes. The difference in elevation between any incoming sewer
and the manhole invert shall not exceed 12 inches where required to match
crowns. The use of drop manholes requires approval of the town engineer. The
minimum inside diameter of the manholes shall conform to those specified by the
town engineer. Inside drop manholes will require special consideration;
however, in no case shall the minimum clear distance be less than that
indicated herein. The relationships between intersecting sewer lines shall meet
the standards required by the town engineer (See division (E)(1) above).
      (4)   Sewerage locations. Sanitary sewers shall be located within street
or alley rights-of-way unless topography dictates otherwise. When located in
easements on private property, access shall be provided to all manholes. Where
sewer lines in private easements cross public street or alley rights-of-way a
manhole shall be provided in such right-of-way where possible. Imposed loading
shall be considered at all manhole locations. Not less than 6 feet of cover
shall be provided over the top of pipe in street and alley rights-of-way or 3
feet in all other areas.
      (5)   Water supply interconnections. There shall be no physical
connection between a public and private portable water supply system. There
shall be no connection which will permit the passage of any sewer or polluted
water into the potable water system. Sewers shall be kept removed from water
supply wells or other water supply sources and structures.
      (6)   Relation of sewers to water mains. A minimum horizontal distance of
10 feet shall be maintained between parallel water and sewer lines. At points
where sewers cross water mains, the sewer shall be constructed of cast iron
pipe or encased in concrete for a distance of 10 feet in each direction from
the crossing, measured perpendicular to the water line. This will not be
required when the water line is at least 2 feet above the sewer line.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.6) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.041 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Required improvements.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated, unpaved portions
of the rights-of-way of all streets as shown in Appendix B.
      (2)   Concrete curbs are required for all streets where sidewalks are
required by this chapter or required at the discretion of the Commission.
      (3)   A grassed or landscaped median strip at least 2 feet wide shall
separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs. The medial strip shall be improved
according to §
150.036(D) of these regulations.
   (B)   Pedestrian accesses. In order to facilitate pedestrian access from the
street to schools, parks, playgrounds or other nearby streets, the Commission
may require perpetual unobstructed easement at least 20 feet in width. The
easements shall be indicated on both the preliminary and final plats.
   (C)   Required sidewalks in urban area cross section.
 
Street Type     Standard Width Standard Depth
All residential 4 feet         4/6 inches at driveway
Non-residential 4 feet         4/6 inches at driveway
Arterial        4 feet         4/6 inches at driveway
 
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Table 4-2)
   (D)   Guidelines for the construction and rehabilitation of sidewalks.
      (1)   Before construction begins on any new residential structure within
the town, the landowner shall obtain a sidewalk permit from the town. All new
residential structures will be required to obtain a sidewalk permit and the
landowner will be required to construct a sidewalk in accordance with all
specifications adopted by the Town of Fremont.
      (2)   A landowner of an existing residential structure without a sidewalk
which is issued an improvement location permit will not be required to obtain a
sidewalk permit or construct a sidewalk.
      (3)   All existing residential structures that are issued an improvement
location permit and have an existing sidewalk that the landowner wishes to
rehabilitate or do not have an existing sidewalk but wish to construct one
shall obtain a sidewalk permit and construct a sidewalk in accordance with all
specifications adopted by the Town of Fremont. The Town of Fremont may provide
a portion or all of the labor to remove the existing sidewalk and/or share the
cost of the new sidewalk construction, dependent upon availability of town
funds. In no event shall the maximum contribution of the Town of Fremont exceed
$1,000 for a mid-block residence or $2,000 for a corner residence.
      (4)   Any owner of a residential structure within the corporate
boundaries of the Town of Fremont that wishes to repair an existing sidewalk or
construct a new sidewalk shall obtain a sidewalk permit and the landowner will
be required to construct a sidewalk in accordance with all specifications
adopted by the Town of Fremont. The cost of said construction may be equally
shared between the Town of Fremont and the landowner, dependant upon
availability of town funds. In no event shall the maximum contribution of the
Town of Fremont exceed $1,000 for a mid-block residence or $2,000 for a corner
residence.
      (5)    The Town of Fremont shall annually utilize all available funds
budgeted for the purposes stated in this division in those areas where the Town
Council and the Town Manager deem the need most pressing. Bids shall be
solicited in the late spring of each year with construction to be initiated in
late summer of each year.
      (6)   All funds of the town budgeted for the purposes stated hereunder
shall be distributed on a first come, first served basis. No project shall have
a guarantee with regard to the availability of match funds under this division.
      (7)   Applications for town matching funds under this division may be
made upon the issuance of a sidewalk permit or at any time as the need for
sidewalk construction becomes warranted. Submission to the town by the
applicant of at least 2 bids will be required and payment shall be made to said
applicant after completion of construction and inspection by the town.
      (8)   A portion of all funds budgeted each year for sidewalks shall be
utilized by the Fremont Street Department for the rehabilitation of sidewalks
damaged by tree removal or like circumstances.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.7) (Res. 2006-07, passed 12-19-2006 ; Am. Ord. 2010-
02, passed 1-5-2009 ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.042 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   All utility lines, including but not limited to gas, electric
power, telephone and CATV cables shall be located underground throughout the
subdivision.
      (2)   Wherever existing lines are located above ground, except on public
roads and rights-of-way, they shall be removed and placed underground.
      (3)   All utility lines and other facilities existing and proposed
throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the preliminary plat or sketch
plan in the case of a minor subdivision.
      (4)   Underground service connections to the street property line of each
platted lot shall be installed at the subdivider's expense.
      (5)   At the discretion of the Commission, the requirements for service
connections to each lot may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be
retained in single ownership intended to be developed for the same primary use.
   (B)   Easements.
      (1)   Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for
utilities (private and municipal). The easements shall be at least 15 feet
wide. Proper coordination shall be established between the subdivider and the
applicable utility companies for the coordination of utility easements with
those established in adjoining properties.
      (2)   Where topographical or other conditions are so as to make
impractical the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width shall be provided along side
lot lines with satisfactory access to the road or rear lot lines. All easements
shall be indicated on preliminary and final plats.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.8) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.043 PUBLIC USES.
   (A)   Parks, playgrounds and recreation areas.
      (1)   Recreation standards.
         (a)   The Commission shall require that land be reserved for parks and
playgrounds or other recreational purposes in locations designated on the
comprehensive plan or otherwise where reservations would be appropriate.
         (b)   Each reservation shall be of suitable size, dimension,
topography and general character and shall have adequate road access for the
particular purposes envisioned by the Commission.
         (c)   The area shall be shown and marked on the plat: “Reserved for
Park and/or Recreational Purposes.”
         (d)   When recreation areas are required, the Commission shall
determine the number of acres to be reserved from the following table, which
has been prepared on the basis of providing 3 acres of recreation area for
every 100 dwelling units.
         (e)   The Commission may refer proposed reservations to the local
government official or agency in charge of parks and recreation for
recommendation.
            1.   If approved by official or agency, the developer shall
dedicate all recreation areas to the local government as a condition of
secondary approval.
            2.   In general, land reserved for recreation purposes shall have
an area of at least 4 acres. When the percentages from division (A)(2) below
would create less than 4 acres, the Commission may require that the recreation
area be located at a suitable place on the edge of the subdivision so that
additional land may be added at a time as the adjacent land is subdivided.
      (2)   Recreation requirements.
 
Single Family Lots; Size of Lots Percentage of Land to be Reserved
80,000 and greater               1.5%
50,000 SF                        2.5%
40,000 SF                        3.0%
35,000 SF                        3.5%
25,000 SF                        5.0%
15,000 and less SF               8.0%
 
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Table 4-3)
      (3)   Recreation sites. Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of
a character and location suitable for use as playground, play field or other
active recreation purposes and shall be relatively level and dry. It shall be
improved by the developer to the standards required by the Commission and the
cost of the improvements shall be included in the amount of the performance
bond. Passive recreation areas along stream valleys may be accepted by the
Commission as part of the required area if adequate flat land is also provided
for space-consuming recreation activities. A recreation site shall have a total
frontage on 1 or more streets of at least 200 feet except for stream-valley and
other linear passive recreation areas which shall at no point be narrower than
50 feet. The Commission may refer any subdivision intended to contain a
dedicated park to the local government official, department or agency in charge
of parks and recreation for a recommendation. All land to be reserved for
dedication to the town for park purposes shall have prior approval of the town
and shall be shown on the plat as “Reserved for Park and/or Recreation
Purposes.”
      (4)   Applicability to land using average density provisions.
         (a)   Any subdivision plat in which the principle of flexible zoning
has been used shall not be exempt from the provisions of this section except as
to any portion of the land area which is actually dedicated to the town for
park and recreation purposes.
         (b)   If no additional area, other than the area to be reserved
through averaging, is required by the Commission, the full fee shall be paid.
         (c)   If further land is required for reservation, apart from the land
reserved by averaging, credit shall be given.
      (5)   Other recreation reservations. The provisions of this section are
minimum standards. None of the preceding subsections of this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting a developer from reserving other land for recreation
purposes in addition to the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Other public uses.
      (1)   Plat to provide for public uses. Whenever a tract to be subdivided
includes a school, recreation areas, (in excess of the requirements of division
(A) above, or other public use as indicated on the comprehensive plan or any
portion thereof, the space shall be suitably incorporated by the applicant into
his or her sketch plan, except when an applicant uses planned unit development
procedures in which land is set aside by the developer for public use as
required under those procedures in the Zoning Chapter.
      (2)   Incorporation of site. After proper determination of its necessity
by the Commission and the appropriate official of any other public agency
involved in the acquisition and use of each site by the public agency, the site
shall be suitably incorporated by the applicant into the preliminary and final
plats.
      (3)   Determination by Commission. Upon a like determination by the
Commission, the following shall apply.
         (a)   Referral to public agency. The Commission shall refer the sketch
plan to the public agency concerned with acquisition for its consideration and
report. The Commission may propose alternate areas for acquisition and shall
allow the public agency 30 days for reply. The public agency's recommendation,
if affirmative, shall include a map showing the boundaries and area of the
parcel to be acquired and an estimate of the time within 5 years required to
complete the acquisition.
         (b)   Notice to property owner. Upon a receipt of an affirmative
report the Commission shall notify the property owner and the Administrator
shall designate on the preliminary and final plats each area proposed to be
acquired by a public agency.
      (4)   Duration of land reservation. The acquisition of land reserved by a
public agency on the final plat shall be initiated within 5 years of
notification in writing from the owner that he or she intends to develop the
land. The letter of intent shall be accompanied by a site plan of the proposed
development and a tentative schedule of construction. Failure on the part of a
public agency to initiate acquisition within the prescribed 5 years shall
result in the removal of the “reserved” designation from the property for
development in accordance with this chapter.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.9) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.044 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Existing features which would add value to the type of intended
development or to the town as a whole, such as trees, watercourses falls,
beaches, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved in
the design of the subdivision nor any change of grade of the land affected
until primary approval of the preliminary plat has been granted.
      (2)   All trees on the plat which are required to be retained shall be
preserved, and all trees, where needed shall be welled and protected against
change of grade.
      (3)   The sketch plan shall show the number and location of existing
trees, as required by this chapter, and shall further indicate all those marked
for retention and the location of all proposed shade trees required along the
street side(s) of each lot as required by this chapter.
   (B)   Shade trees planted by developer.
      (1)   (a)   As a requirement for subdivision secondary approval, the
applicant shall plant trees on the property of the subdivision.
         (b)   The trees are to be planted within 5 feet of the right-of-way of
the street or streets within and abutting the subdivision, or at the discretion
of the Commission and the town engineer, within the right-of-way of the
streets.
         (c)   One tree shall be planted for every 40 feet of frontage along
each street unless the Commission, upon recommendation of the town engineer,
shall grant a waiver in accordance with §
150.009(B). The waiver shall be granted only if there are existing trees
growing along a right-of-way or on the abutting property which in the opinion
of the Commission comply with this chapter.
      (2)   New trees to be provided pursuant to this chapter shall be approved
by the town engineer and shall be planted in accordance with the regulations of
the town engineer. The trees have a minimum trunk diameter (measured 12 inches
above ground level) of not less than 2 inches. Only oak, hard maples, ginkgo or
other long-live shade trees acceptable to the town engineer and to the
Commission shall be planted.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.10) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.045 NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to the land shall meet a special provision as the Commission finds appropriate
and requires. A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the
requirements set forth in the Zoning Chapter.
      (2)   Site plan approval and nonresidential subdivision plat approval may
proceed simultaneously at the discretion of the Planning Commission.
      (3)   A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the
requirements of this chapters as well as additional standards required by the
Commission and shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established
in the comprehensive plan, official map and Zoning Chapter, except that where
lot lines are to be established incrementally they need not be shown on the
sketch plan or the preliminary plat for primary approval.
      (4)   All shopping centers and other nonresidential subdivisions of
buildings for leasehold shall be subject to the relevant provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   In addition to the principles and standards in this chapter which
are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the applicant shall
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission that the street, parcel and
block pattern proposed are appropriate for the uses anticipated and adequately
take into account other uses in the vicinity.
      (2)   The following principles and standards shall be observed:
         (a)   Proposed commercial or industrial parcels shall be suitable in
minimum area and dimensions to the types of industrial development anticipated.
Proposals for incremental lot by lot subdivision must be made clear in a
statement on the preliminary plat which is satisfactory to the Commission;
         (b)   Street rights-of-way and pavement construction shall be adequate
to accommodate the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated
thereupon;
         (c)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Commission upon
recommendation of the county with respect to street, curb, gutter and sidewalk
design and construction;
         (d)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Commission with
respect to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, storm
water drainage and preprocessing of sewage. Special requirements may also be
imposed regarding the storage and disposal of toxic materials;
         (e)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing onto existing or
potential residential development and provision for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip where necessary; and
         (f)   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck
traffic, shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing
or potential residential areas.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.11) Penalty, see §
150.999
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 150.060 IMPROVEMENTS AND PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   Completion of improvements. Before the plat is signed by the
designated officials all applicants shall be required to complete, in
accordance with the Commission's decision and to the satisfaction of the town
engineer, all the streets, sanitary and other public improvements including lot
improvements on the individual lots of the subdivision as required in this
chapter, specified in the approved construction plan and on the final
subdivision plat, and as approved by the Commission and to dedicate the public
improvements to the town, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the
property and public improvements thus dedicated.
   (B)   Performance bond.
      (1)   The Commission in its sole discretion may waive the requirement
that the applicant complete all public improvements prior to the approval of
the final subdivision plat or section thereof, and that in lieu thereof, the
applicant shall post bond securable to the Town of Fremont, hereinafter
referred to as performance bond, in an amount equivalent to 100% of the
estimated cost of completion of the required public improvements. This amount
of bond shall be sufficient to secure to the participating jurisdiction the
satisfactory construction and installation of the uncompleted portion required
public improvements, as provided for in §§
150.022(G)(1)(a) and
150.023(I)(1) above.
      (2)   In lieu of a like bond the subdivider may submit a certified check
made payable to the Town of Fremont in an amount equivalent to 100% of the
estimated cost of completion of the uncompleted portion of required public
improvements a provided for in §§
150.022(G)(1)(a) and
150.023(I)(1) above. Any check shall be held by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   (a)   In lieu of a like bond the subdivider may submit irrevocable
letters of credit in behalf of the subdivider and securable by the town in an
amount equivalent to 100% of the estimated cost of completion of the
uncompleted portion of required public improvements as provided in §§
150.022(G)(1)(a) and
150.023(I)(1) above.
         (b)   In the event an irrevocable letter of credit is used it shall be
written for a maximum length of 2 years. The Commission, 2 months prior to the
expiration of the letter of credit, shall determine if the public improvements
have been accepted for maintenance by the town or other units of government
having jurisdiction over them, and if they have not been accepted shall so
notify the subdivider of the town's intent to secure the funds pledged by a
letter of credit or, at the discretion of the Commission, to grant an extension
of the original period fixed by the Commission.
         (c)   No extension shall exceed 1 year, and the subdivider must file
with the Commission a new letter of credit for the period so extended.
      (4)   In lieu of a bond the subdivider may submit a certificate of
deposit made out to the Town of Fremont and the subdivider to be held by the
Clerk-Treasurer in an amount equivalent to 100% of the cost of completion of
the uncompleted portion of required public improvements as provided for §§
150.022(G)(1)(a) and
150.023(I)(1) above. The subdivider must endorse the certificate of deposit
before submitting it to the Commission so that the town may secure the funds.
      (5)   (a)   A performance bond furnished pursuant to this chapter shall
comply with all statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the
Commission Attorney as to form, sufficiency and manner of execution as set
forth in this chapter. (See Appendix A for forms.)
         (b)   The period within which required public improvements must be
completed shall be specified by the Commission in the primary approval of the
preliminary plat and shall be incorporated into the bond and shall not in any
event exceed 2 years from date of secondary approval.
         (c)   The bond shall be approved by the participating jurisdiction as
to amount. The Commission may, upon proof of difficulty, grant an extension of
the completion date set forth in such bond for a maximum period of 1 additional
year, provided that the bond submitted for this extension period meets all
other requirements herein.
         (d)   The Commission may, at any time during the term of the bond,
accept a substitution of principal of sureties on the bond.
   (C)   Temporary public improvements.
      (1)   The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of temporary public
improvements required by the Commission and shall maintain same for the period
specified by the Commission.
      (2)   Prior to construction of any temporary public facility or
improvement, the subdivider shall file with the Commission a separate suitable
bond for temporary facilities. This bond shall ensure that the temporary
facilities will be properly constructed, maintained and removed (except for
turnaround at ends of the peripheral stub streets intended for connection into
adjacent future subdivisions).
   (D)   Cost of public improvements. All required public improvement shall be
made by the applicant at his or her expense without reimbursement by the
participating jurisdiction or any public improvement district therein, unless
sharing of expenses is agreed upon by the town.
   (E)   Governmental units. Governmental units to which these bond provisions
apply may file a certified resolution or ordinance from officers of agencies
authorized to act in their behalf, agreeing to comply with the provisions of
this section in lieu of the bond.
   (F)   Failure to complete public improvements.
      (1)   For subdivisions for which no performance bond has been posted, if
the public improvements are not completed within the period specified by the
Commission in the primary approval of the preliminary plat, or the sketch plan
in the case of a minor subdivision, the approval shall be deemed to have
expired.
      (2)   In those cases where a performance bond has been posted and the
required public improvements have not been installed within the terms of the
performance bond, the participating jurisdiction may thereupon request the town
to declare the bond to be in default and cause all public improvements to be
installed according to secondary approval regardless of the extent of the
building development at the time the bond is declared to be in default.
   (G)   Acceptance of dedication offers.
      (1)   The approval by the Commission of a subdivision plat shall not be
deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by the town of any street,
easement or park shown on the plat.
      (2)   The Commission may require the plat to be endorsed with appropriate
notes to this effect. The approval relates only to the real property itself.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 5.1) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.061 INSPECTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General procedure. If the town finds upon inspection per §§
150.022(G)(1)(a) and
150.023(I)(1) above that any of the improvements have not been constructed in
accordance with the approved construction plans, the applicant shall be
responsible for completing the public improvements is covered by a performance
bond, the applicant and the bonding company shall be severally and jointly
liable for completing the public improvements according to specifications.
   (B)   Release or reduction of performance bond.
      (1)   Certificate of Satisfactory Completion.
         (a)   The town (or other participating jurisdiction) shall not accept
required public improvements, nor the Commission release nor reduce a
performance bond, until a certificate is submitted to the town stating that all
required public improvements or a pro-rata part in the case of a reduction have
been satisfactorily completed.
         (b)   The applicant's engineer or surveyor shall provide the town with
detailed “as built” construction plans of the public improvements for
maintenance in accordance with the established procedures unless the town has
reliable information as to non-compliance with the plans and specifications.
      (2)   Reduction of performance bond. A performance bond shall be reduced
upon actual acceptance of public improvements, but only by the amount
originally estimated for the completion of the public improvements.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 5.2)
§ 150.062 MAINTENANCE OP PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The applicant shall be required to maintain all public improvements on
the individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on streets and
sidewalks (where required) until acceptance of the public improvements by the
town.
   (B)   The applicant shall be required to file a maintenance bond with the
Commission, prior to acceptance in an amount not to exceed to 10% of the cost
of all public improvements, and in a form satisfactory to the Commission
Attorney. The maintenance bond is provided to assure the satisfactory condition
of the required public improvements for a period of 5 years after the date of
their acceptance by the town (or other participating jurisdiction).
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 5.3) (Ord. 2003-13, passed 12-22-2003) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.063 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for the last 10% of lots in a final
subdivision plat or section thereof, or if 10% be less than 2, for the last 2
lots of a subdivision or section thereof, until all public improvements
required by the Commission for the plat with the exception of sidewalks have
been fully completed and accepted for maintenance by the town.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 4.8) Penalty, see §
150.999
SPECIFICATIONS FOR DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED
§ 150.075 SKETCH PLAN.
   Sketch plans submitted to the Commission, prepared in pen or pencil, shall
be drawn to a convenient scale of not more than 100 feet to an inch and shall
show the following information (See Appendix G).
   (A)   Name:
      (1)   Name of subdivision if property is within an existing subdivision;
      (2)   Proposed name if not within a previously platted subdivision. The
proposed name shall not duplicate the name of any subdivision plat previously
recorded for which primary approval is still in effect; and
      (3)   Name of property if no subdivision name has been chosen. (This is
commonly the name by which the property is locally known).
   (B)   Ownership:
      (1)   Name and address, including telephone number of legal owner or
agent of property, and citation of last instrument conveying title to each
parcel of property involved in the proposed subdivision, giving grantor,
grantee, date and land records reference;
      (2)   Citation of any existing legal rights-of-way or easement affecting
the property;
      (3)   A complete copy of existing covenants on the property; and
      (4)   Name and address, including telephone number, of the professional
person(s) responsible for subdivision design, for the design of the public
improvements and for surveys.
   (C)   Description. Location of property, lot, section, township, range and
county, graphic scale, north arrow and date.
   (D)   Features to be included on sketch plans:
      (1)   Location of property lines, existing easements, burial grounds,
railroad rights-of ways, watercourses, and existing wooded areas or trees 8
inches or more in diameter, measured 4 feet above ground level (see §
150.044(A)); location, width and names of all existing or platted streets or
other public ways within or immediately adjacent to the tract, names of
adjacent and adjoining property owners (from the latest assessment rolls);
      (2)   Location, sizes, elevations and slopes of existing sewers, water
mains, culverts and other underground structures within the tract and
immediately adjacent to the site and utility rights-of-way;
      (3)   Approximate topography, at the same scale as the sketch plan
(normally showing 2-foot contour intervals but the Administrator may require 1-
foot intervals on very flat land or permit 5-foot intervals on very steep
slopes);
      (4)   The approximate location and width of proposed streets;
      (5)   Preliminary proposals for connection with existing water supply and
sanitary sewage systems, or alternative means of providing water supply and
sanitary waste treatment and disposal; preliminary provisions for collecting
and discharging surface water drainage;
      (6)   The approximate location, dimensions and areas of all proposed or
existing lots;
      (7)   The approximate location, dimensions and areas of all parcels of
land proposed to be set aside for park or playground use or other public use,
or for the use of property owners in the proposed subdivision;
      (8)   The location of temporary stakes to enable the Commission to find
and appraise features of the sketch plan in the field;
      (9)   Whenever the sketch plan covers only a part of an applicant's
contiguous holdings, the applicant shall submit, at the scale of no more than
200 feet to the inch, a sketch in pen or pencil of the proposed subdivision
area, together with its proposed street system, and an indication of the
probable future street and drainage system of the remaining portion of the
tract;
      (10)   (a)   A vicinity map showing streets and other general development
of the surrounding area.
         (b)   The sketch plan shall show all school and improvement district
lines with the zones properly designated; and
      (11)   If the subdivision is classified as a minor subdivision, the
sketch plan must also comply with §
150.076 below.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 6.1) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.076 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Preparation. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed land
surveyor at a convenient scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch, may be
prepared in pen or pencil and the sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more
than 1 sheet is used and shall be of a size as is acceptable for filing in the
office of the County Recorder, but shall not be larger than 24 inches by 36
inches.
   (B)   Features. The preliminary plat shall show the following:
      (1)   The location of the property with respect to surrounding property
and streets, the names of all adjoining property owners of record, the names of
adjoining developments and the names of adjoining streets;
      (2)   The location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the property
to be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot;
      (3)   The location of existing streets, easements, water bodies, streams
and other pertinent features such as swamps, flood plains, railroads,
buildings, parks, cemeteries, drainage ditches, bridges and topography (at the
same scale as the sketch plan);
      (4)   The location and width of all existing and proposed streets, alleys
and other public ways and their rights-of-way, and of easements and building
set-back lines, utilities, fire hydrants and storm water facilities;
      (5)   The locations, dimensions, bearings and areas of all proposed or
existing lots;
      (6)   The location and dimensions of all property proposed to be set
aside for park or playground use, or other public or private reservation, with
designation of the purpose thereof, and conditions, if any, of the dedication
or reservation;
      (7)   The name and address of the owner or owners of land to be
subdivided, the name and address of the subdivider if other than the owner and
the name and registration number of the land surveyor;
      (8)   The date of the map, approximate true north point, scale and title
of the subdivision;
      (9)   Sufficient data acceptable to the town engineer to determine
readily the location, bearing and length of all lines, and to reproduce lines
upon the ground; also, the location of all proposed monuments;
      (10)   Names of the subdivision and all new streets subject to approval
by the Commission;
      (11)   Indication of the use of any lot (single-family, 2-family, multi-
family, townhouse) and all uses other than residential proposed by the
subdivider;
      (12)   Blocks shall be consecutively numbered or lettered in alphabetical
order. The blocks in numbered additions to subdivisions bearing the same name
shall be numbered or lettered consecutively throughout the several additions;
      (13)   All lots in each block shall be consecutively numbered; and
      (14)   All information required on the sketch plan should also be shown
on the preliminary plat, and the following notation shall also be shown:
         (a)   Explanation of drainage easements, if any;
         (b)   Explanation of site easements, if any;
         (c)   Explanation of site reservations, if any; and
         (d)   Endorsement of owner, as follows:
Owner _______   Date ___________
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 6.2) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.077 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   General construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements.
   (B)   Plans shall be drawn at a scale of no more than 1 inch equals 50 feet,
and map sheets shall be of the same size as the preliminary plat.
   (C)   The following shall be shown:
      (1)   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations lines of all
streets. Where a proposed street intersects an existing street or streets, the
elevation along the center line of the existing street or streets within 100
feet of the intersection, shall be shown. Radii of all curves, lengths of
tangents and central angles on all streets.
      (2)   The Commission may require, where steep slopes exist, that cross-
sections of all proposed streets at 100-foot stations shall be shown at 5
points as follows: On a line at right angle to the center line of the street,
and all elevation points shall be at the center line of the street, each
property line, and points 25 feet inside each property line.
      (3)   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross-section
of street pavements including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage easements,
servitude, rights-of-way, manholes and catch basins; the locations of street
trees, street lighting standards and street signs; the location, size and
invert elevation of existing and proposed utility systems; and exact location
and size of all water, gas or other underground utilities or structures.
      (4)   Location, size elevation and other appropriate description of any
existing facilities or utilities, including, but not limited to, existing
streets, sewers, drains, water mains, easements, water bodies, streams, flood
plains and other pertinent features such as swamps, railroads, buildings,
features noted on the official map or comprehensive plan at the point of
connection to proposed facilities an utilities within the subdivision, and each
tree with a diameter of 8 inches or more, measured 4 feet above ground level.
The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of the survey,
and the approximate high and low-water elevations of the lake or streams. All
elevations shall be referred to as the U.S.G.S. datum plane. If the subdivision
borders a lake, river or stream, the distances and bearings of a meander line
established not less than 20 feet back from the ordinary high-water mark of
waterways.
      (5)   Topography at the same scale as the sketch plan with a contour
interval of 2 feet, referred to the sea-level datum. All data provided shall be
the latest applicable U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey data and should be so
noted on the plat.
      (6)   All specifications and references required by the town's
construction standards and specifications, including a site-grading plats for
the entire subdivision.
      (7)   Notation of approval as follows:
         (a)   Owner _____ Date ____ ; and
         (b)   Commission President ________ Date ___________.
      (8)   Title, name, address, signature, registration number and seal of
the professional engineer and/or surveyor and date, including revision dates.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 6.3) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.078 FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   Preparation.
      (1)   The final subdivision plat shall be presented in india ink on
tracing cloth or reproducible mylar at an appropriate scale and contain the
same information as on the preliminary plat, except for any changes or
additions required by the conditions of primary approval.
      (2)   The preliminary plat may be used as the final subdivision plat if
it meets these requirements and is revised in accordance with the Commission's
approval. The final subdivision plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor
licensed by the state.
   (B)   Features. All revision dates must be shown as well as the following:
      (1)   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, and locations of any
building lines proposed to be established in this manner, if required by the
Commission in accordance with this chapter; and
      (2)   All monuments erected, corners and other points established in the
field shall be shown and noted in their places on the plat. The legend for
metal monuments shall indicate the kind of metal, the diameter, length and
weight per lineal foot of the monuments.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 6.4) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.079 EXEMPT I DIVISIONS.
   The information that must be provided in order for the decision to be made
that a division is an Exempt I division varies as follows according to the
definition for each type of Exempt I division listed under Subdivision in §
150.003 above, thus:
   (A)   For type “A” divisions a metes and bounds legal description of the
exempt division and the land from which it is being divided must be provided;
   (B)   For type “B” divisions the old legal and new legal descriptions must
be provided;
   (C)   For type “C” divisions a copy of the court decree showing by legal
description how the land is to be divided must be provided;
   (D)   For type “D” divisions a legal description and plot plan showing the
parcel and the location of the street right-of-way must be provided;
   (E)   For type “E” divisions a legal description and plot plan showing the
tract to be divided and the tract(s) to be added to must be provided; and
   (F)   For type “F” divisions a plat of the cemetery showing the layout of
the private drives, parking areas, and size of burial lots must be provided.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 6.5)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10 and not more
than $500 for each day's violation.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, § 1.14)
APPENDIX A: REQUIRED FORMS AND CERTIFICATES.
   All applications, requests for plat approval, notices, affidavits,
certificates, endorsements and instruments assuring the completion and
maintenance of improvements required by the provisions of this ordinance shall
be submitted to the Administrator or prepared by the Administrator on the
following forms:
      (1)   Application for Minor Sketch Plan Review, Primary Approval and
Certificate
      (2)   Application for Major Sketch Plan Review and Certificate
      (3)   Request for Primary Approval of a Major Subdivision Plat
      (4)   Notice of Public Hearing on Subdivision Plat
      (5)   Notice to Interested Parties
      (6)   Affidavit of Notice to Interested Parties
      (7)   Acknowledgment
      (8)   Request for Secondary Approval of Subdivision Plat
      (9)   Certificate of Approval
      (10)   Dedication Certificate
      (11)   Subdivision Performance Bond
      (12)   Performance Bond Secured by Deposit in Escrow Account
      (13)   Irrevocable Letter of Credit
      (14)   Maintenance Bond
      (15)   Statement of Compliance (Exempt Divisions)
   The Commission shall adopt a form of the foregoing forms, and in addition,
shall determine the need for and the form of any additional of amended
applications, requests for plat approval, notices, affidavits, certificates,
endorsements and instruments as may be required in the enforcement of this
Ordinance, which forms shall be made available at the office of the
Administrator.
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, App. A)
APPENDIX B: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STREETS.
REQUIREMENTS
Design Standards for Streets
Design Standards for Streets
                        Street Type
                        Major    Collector Minor    Marginal
Min. Width R-O-W        *        60 feet   60 feet  50 feet
Min. Pvmnt. Width       *        24 feet   20 feet  20 feet
Min. Pvmnt. Curb/Gutter *        32 feet   28 feet  28 feet
Min. Curb Width         *        2 feet    2 feet   2 feet
Max. Grade              *        6%        6%       6%
Min. Radius of Curves   200 feet 100 feet  100 feet 100 feet
Min. Length Tangent     100 feet 50 feet   50 feet  50 feet
Min. Sight Distance     *        200 feet  200 feet 200 feet
Min. Corner Radius      20 feet  20 feet   20 feet  20 feet
Min. Turn-Around        *        110 feet  110 feet 110 feet
Cul-De-Sac Min          N/A      100 feet  100 feet 100 feet
* As required by Indiana State Highway, County Highway, or Local.
N/A Not Applicable
 
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Table 4-1)
Local Street Specifications
Concrete Construction 6 inch
Surface Asphalt       1 inch
Binder Asphalt        3 inch
53 Gravel Base        10 inch
Industrial Street Specifications
Concrete Construction 7 inch
For Surface Asphalt   1 inch
Binder Asphalt        4 inch
53 Gravel Base        14 inch
* All gravel base shall be compacted every 4 inches until height
specifications are fulfilled.
Crown Specifications
There should be a crown of 1/4 inch higher per every foot of width unless
otherwise engineered.
 
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Table 4-1; Am. Ord., passed - -)
ROAD CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
LOCAL STREET ASPHALT CONSTRUCTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-832.jpg]
LOCAL STREET CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-834.jpg]
INDUSTRIAL ASPHALT CONSTRUCTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-836.jpg]
INDUSTRIAL ASPHALT CONSTRUCTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-838.jpg]
(Am. Ord., passed - -)
APPENDIX C: LOT AND FRONTAGE EXAMPLES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-870.bmp]
 
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Figure 4-1)
APPENDIX D: YARD AREAS AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-873.bmp]
 
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Figure 4-2)
APPENDIX E: CROSS SECTIONS FOR STREETS.
TYPICAL CROSS SECTION FOR STREETS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-876.bmp]
 
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Figure 4-3)
TYPICAL CROSS SECTION FOR STREETS WITH CURBS AND GUTTERS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-879.bmp]
 
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Figure 4-4)
APPENDIX F: FLOOD PLAIN DELINEATION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-882.bmp]
 
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Figure 4-5)
APPENDIX G: SPECIFICATIONS FOR DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED.
SKETCH PLAN
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4ce166191b11e19aeee68b2f653adf83645d93d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-885.bmp]
 
(1996 Code, Chap. 11, Figure 6-1)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Structures or excavation subject to unsafe declaration
   
151.02   Content of information
   
151.03   Hearing; notification and determination
   
151.04   Enforcement remedies
   
151.05   Cost; abatement and enforcement
   
151.06   Alternative statutory procedure and remedies
   
151.07   Requirements; installation of curbs, gutters and sidewalks
   
151.08   Fence requirements
   
151.09   Multi-hazard mitigation plan
Town Building Code
   
151.25   Title and purpose
   
151.26   Definitions
   
151.27   Scope; authority; severability
   
151.28   Building permit required; application and issuance
   
151.29   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.30   Inspections and investigations
   
151.31   Withhold issuance of permits
   
151.32   Permit revocation
   
151.33   Stop-work order
   
151.34   Civil action; right of appeal
   
151.35   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.36   Lifting devices located within a private residence
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STRUCTURES OR EXCAVATION SUBJECT TO UNSAFE DECLARATION.
   (A)   The Town Council, working in conjunction with the State or County
Board of Health, or the Town Zoning Inspector or Administrator, or the Town
Marshal is hereby authorized and empowered to declare certain structures and
excavations a public nuisance and to cause the same to be demolished, razed and
filled in accordance with the provisions hereof.
   (B)   Structures or excavations subject to being determined public
nuisances:
      (1)   Any structure containing debris, refuse, garbage, trash or other
material to an extent that it has become attractive to rodents, wild animals or
insects to an extent so as presenting a reasonably perceived hazard to the
health and safety of the occupants, neighbors or children;
      (2)   Any structure which is sufficiently unsound as to present a danger
of partial or total collapse of any wall, root or floor and presenting a
reasonably perceived hazard to the health and safety of the occupants,
neighbors or children of the area;
      (3)   Any structure commenced or completed in violation of any building
or zoning code of the town;
      (4)   Any structure upon which construction was lawfully commenced, but
completion has not been effected within the limits of reasonable diligence
after the permit was issued;
      (5)   Any structure which has been abandoned in an unsecured state, and
constitutes a dangerous attraction to children, or has become sufficiently
decrepit to constitute an attractive site for graffiti and vandals;
      (6)   Any inhabited structure which is not connected to a functioning and
approved septic system or other approved waste disposal system;
      (7)   Any unsecured excavation which presents a reasonably perceived
hazard to the health and safety of citizens and children, provided this clause
shall not include naturally existing lakes, streams or ponds, nor swimming
pools constructed and fenced in compliance with the provisions of the town
code, human-made farm ponds or fish breeding ponds, provided the same have
filled after a reasonable period of time and the same do not constitute a
health hazard due to stagnation or pollution; and
      (8)   Any building or structure or any part of a building, structure or
premise that is considered an unsafe building or unsafe premises within the
terms of I.C. 36-7-9-4, or any amends or replacements thereof.
(1996 Code, § 7-4)
§ 151.02 CONTENT OF INFORMATION.
   In the event the Town Zoning Inspector or Administrator, Building Inspector,
County or State Health Inspector, Fire Chief or Marshal, Town Marshal or
President of Town Council shall determine that a structure or excavation
constitutes a public nuisance within the terms of §§
151.01 through
151.06, then the official may present to the Town Council a written statement
containing the following information:
   (A)   Identification of the structure in question;
   (B)   Name or names of the owners as stated upon the tax rolls of the county
with the address set forth therein;
   (C)   Name or names of the occupants to the extent they can;
   (D)   Property description of the parcel upon which the structure or
excavation is located; and
   (E)   A statement of the reasons why the structure or excavation is deemed a
public nuisance.
(1996 Code, § 7-5)
§ 151.03 HEARING; NOTIFICATION AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the foregoing statement, the Town Council may through
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, cause the owners and occupants to be served
with notice of the statement and of the fact that a hearing will be held on a
date no earlier than 10 days to determine whether the structure or excavation
does in fact constitute a public nuisance, the possible consequences of a
determination, and informing the parties of their right to present evidence and
to be represented at a hearing.
(1996 Code, § 7-6)
   (B)   (1)   On the date, and at the time and place scheduled for the
hearing, the Town Council shall hear evidence respecting the determination of
the structure or excavation as a public nuisance.
      (2)   If the structure is determined to be a public nuisance, then the
Town Council shall consider appropriate action to be taken to abate the
nuisance in the form of barricading or securing, demolition or fill, or
rehabilitation and clearing.
      (3)   The Town Council shall determine the appropriate abatement action
and shall give the owners and occupants a reasonable period of time, not less
than 10 days, to effect the abatement.
(1996 Code, § 7-7)
§ 151.04 ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   Upon the expiration of the abatement period established by the Town Council
and no abatement having been effected, the Town Council may:
   (A)   Cause or contract to have the nuisance abated in the manner previously
determined;
   (B)   Institute judicial proceedings to obtain an order requiring the
occupant and owner to abate the nuisance; or
   (C)   Set another hearing upon the matter.
(1996 Code, § 7-8)
§ 151.05 COST; ABATEMENT AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In the event the Town Council causes or contracts to have the nuisance
abated, all costs incurred by the town and associated with the abatement are to
be reimbursed by the owner or occupants of the property, and upon the Clerk-
Treasurer filing with the Recorder of the County, a notice of lien stating the
name of the owner of record, the description of the property and the amount of
the costs incurred, the town shall have a lien against the property for the
costs incurred.
(1996 Code, § 7-9)
   (B)   In the event the Town Council institutes judicial proceedings to
obtain an order requiring the occupant and owner to abate the nuisance, the
owner and occupants are to reimburse to the town all costs including attorney
fees associated with obtaining the order and any costs associated with carrying
out an order.
(1996 Code, § 7-10)
§ 151.06 ALTERNATIVE STATUTORY PROCEDURE AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   The remedies provided by §§
151.01 through
151.06 (this section) shall be in addition to any other remedies available to
the town by the town code, administrative regulation or state or federal
statute.
   (B)   (1)   Without limiting the generality of division (A) above, the town
shall also have remedies as are set forth in I.C. 36-7-9 which is adopted by
reference pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3.
      (2)   When exercising any remedy provided in the chapter the Town Zoning
Inspector is designated as the administrative officer, the procedural
provisions of the chapter are to be followed and applied, and the term
SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST is to have the definition set forth in I.C. 36-7-
9-2.
      (3)   The provisions of this section are in addition to any regulatory
powers and provisions which the town has by virtue of §§
151.01 through this section and I.C. 36-8-2-4.
(1996 Code, § 7-11)
§ 151.07 REQUIREMENTS; INSTALLATION OF CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   In addition to any provisions contained in
Chapter 152, prior to the issuance of a building permit for the improvement of
any existing lot or parcel, within the corporate limits of the Town of Fremont,
the town official responsible for the issuance of improvement location permits
in the town shall require that the landowner install curbs, gutters and
sidewalks conforming to the specifications set forth for the same in
Chapter 152.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Manager may waive any or all of the required
construction set forth in division (A) above when the construction would be
unreasonable, or where there is no existing sidewalks, curbs, gutters or storm
sewers within 400 yards of the proposed construction and there are no future
plans of constructing the same.
      (2)   The waiver is, however, discretionary and the mere absence of
existing sidewalks, curbs, gutters in the area does not establish any waiver as
of right.
      (3)   In exercising discretion, the Town Manager may take into
consideration whether the lot or parcel abuts a heavily traveled highway or
street.
   (C)   In addition to the authority to waive construction under division (B)
above, the Town Manager may permit variance from the design provisions of
division (A) above where it would be unreasonable in the neighborhood in which
the lot is located.
   (D)   Whenever there exists sidewalks, curbs, gutters within 400 yards of
the proposed construction, any waiver of construction of sidewalks, curbs and
gutters, is to be approved by the Town Council.
   (E)   Industrial parks will be exempt from the sidewalk requirement as set
forth above. In the event it is determined by the Town Council that a sidewalk
is necessary and appropriate in an industrial park, the Town Council will cause
the sidewalk to be constructed and will be responsible for the costs of
construction.
(1996 Code, § 7-16) (Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 151.08 FENCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   Front yards: the body of fences cannot exceed 42 inches maximum
with standard installation.
      (2)   Rear yards: the body of fences cannot exceed 6 feet maximum with
standard installation. A special exception may be granted (per BZA review) to
allow a 10 feet maximum fence.
      (3)   In residential districts the building line defines the separation
between front and rear yards.
      (4)   In rear and side yards, fence may be installed up to the property
line (not on it, or over it).
   (B)   Business.
      (1)   Front yards: the body of fences cannot exceed 42 inches maximum
with standard installation.
      (2)   Rear yards: the body of fences cannot exceed 8 feet maximum with
standard installation.
      (3)   In business districts fences can be installed up to the front yard
building line.
      (4)   In rear and side front yards, fence may be installed up to the
property line (not on it, or over it).
   (C)   Industrial.
      (1)   Front yards: the body of fences cannot exceed 10 feet maximum with
standard installation.
      (2)   Rear yards: there is no maximum height requirement, but standard
installation is required. Outside storage must be fenced in per town code.
      (3)   Fences can be installed up to the property line.
      (4)   The division between the front and the rear yard is the front
building line.
   (D)   Agricultural. Fences in this district are exempt from fence
requirements as long as the fence being installed adheres to using standard
fence material.
   (E)   Universal standards.
      (1)   Standard installation for all fences may include up to 3 inches
ground clearance.
      (2)   Front yards are any street facing yards.
      (3)   Front yard restrictions apply on the side of corner lots.
      (4)   When 2 or more lots are involved and the lots are in different
districts as described above, fence placement is to be determined by the more
restricting of the respective regulations for the 2 different districts.
      (5)   Fences must be kept off of easements and utility lines. Sidewalks
are considered an easement. Fences are not permitted to exceed past the
property line.
      (6)   (a)   If adjoining property owners agree to have a common fence put
in, a written consent form must be completed between the parties, which form
must have an agreed maintenance clause signed by all parties, and recorded as a
deed restriction. Recording fee will be paid with permits.
         (b)   The consent form with maintenance clause shall be obtained from
and must be put on file with the Town Manager's office prior to a permit being
issued.
         (c)   Should a dispute arise in the future with regard to the
maintenance or position of the fence and if the respective property owners
cannot come to an agreement (whether those property owners are the original
property owners that signed the agreement or successor property owners) the
fence will be required to be removed at the cost of all property owners.
      (7)   The property owner having a fence installed is responsible for the
maintenance of the fence and the upkeep of the grass and land around the fence.
      (8)   The good side of a fence will need to face out away from the
property owner constructing the fence in all districts except agriculture.
      (9)   All fences must be of traditional fencing design (for that
particular district), a list of acceptable standards will be on file at the
Town Manager's office.
   (F)   Permits.
      (1)   (a)   A permit must be obtained from the Zoning Administrator prior
to constructing or installing or modifying any fence.
         (b)   A basic repair to an existing fence is not considered a
modification. If an existing fence is changed or removed in any part, a permit
must be obtained and the current fence requirements in effect at the time of
the permit being obtained must be adhered to.
      (2)   Before a fence permit may be issued a drawing must be submitted
showing the placement and type of fence material to be used.
      (3)   If the material to be used is questionable as to whether or not it
is deemed traditional fencing material (for that particular district), then it
must be submitted to the Board of Zoning Appeals for review and decision.
      (4)   A list of acceptable standards will be on file at the Town
Manager's office.
      (5)   The cost for a fence permit is $25 plus any recording fee.
(1996 Code, § 7-20) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Town of Fremont supports the hazard mitigation planning efforts of
Steuben County and wishes to adopt the Steuben County Multi-Hazard Mitigation
Plan, which is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
(Res. 2021-03, passed 4-20-2021)
TOWN BUILDING CODE
§ 151.25 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter and all material included herein by reference shall be
known as the “Building Code of the Town of Fremont, Indiana.”
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the life, public safety,
health and general welfare of the citizens of the Town of Fremont, Indiana, and
shall be construed in a manner so as to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -)
§ 151.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Building
Department that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4, any part of the following:
      (1)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
         (a)   The public;
         (b)   Three or more tenants; or
         (c)   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
      (2)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1) above;
      (3)   Outdoor event equipment;
      (4)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission determines
by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (1) above,
except buildings or structures described in divisions (5) through (9) below.
      (5)   Division (1) includes a structure that contains 3 or more
condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (6)   Division (1) above does not include a building or structure that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for 8 or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (7)   Division (1) above does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (8)   Division (1) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (9)   Division (1) above does not include a structure that is intended to
be or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
      (10)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes SWIMMING POOL.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, any part of the following:
      (1)   A townhouse or a building or structure that is intended to contain
or contains only 1 dwelling unit or 2 dwelling units unless any part of the
building or structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure; or
      (2)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1), such as a
garage, barn or family swimming pool, including an above ground swimming pool,
unless any part of the outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (3)   This definition does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes SWIMMING POOL.
      (5)   For purposes of subsection (1), “townhouse” means a single-family
dwelling unit constructed in a group of three or more attached units in which
each unit:
         (a)   Extends from foundation to roof;
         (b)   Is not more than three stories in height;
         (c)   Is separated from each adjoining unit by:
            1.   Two one-hour fire-resistance rated walls with exposure from
both sides; or
            2.   a common two-hour fire- resistance rated wall; and
         (d)   Has open space on at least two sides.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site;
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used;
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class 2
structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; or
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, any part of a
building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part fabricated
in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or another
building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile structure or
a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16 has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. 5402 as it existed on January 1, 2003. The term includes a mobile
home (as defined in I.C. 16-41-27-4): a structure, transportable in 1 or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is 8 body feet or more in width or 40
body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air- conditioning and electrical
systems contained therein; except that the term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this division except the size requirements
and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification
required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with
the standards established under this 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq. and except that
the term shall not include any self-propelled recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17:
      (1)   Any part of a fabricated unit that is designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year- round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or another structure.
      (2)   Includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; and
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable but designed to be
joined into 1 integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, an individual, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, unincorporated association or governmental
entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, any bridge that is neither:
         (a)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
         (b)   A passageway for light vehicles.
      (2)   Suspended between 2 or more parts of a building or between 2 or
more buildings.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -)
§ 151.27 SCOPE; AUTHORITY; SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this Building Chapter.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this Building Chapter shall not apply
to industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C.
22-15-4.
      (3)   However, the provisions of this Building Chapter and the rules
promulgated by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to
any construction related to an industrialized building system or mobile
structure not certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this Building Chapter is not applicable
to regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels
or regulated lifting devices.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the following:
      (1)   All of the provisions of this Building Chapter;
      (2)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
      (3)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
   (C)   (1)   Should any provision (section, clause, phrase, word or any other
portion) of this chapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid for any reason, the remaining provisions shall not be affected, if and
only if the remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or
provisions be given the effect intended in adopting this chapter.
      (2)   To this end, the provisions of this chapter are severable.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -)
§ 151.28 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building
permit obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of
construction.
   (B)   (1)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a
complete application to the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the
Building Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
         (b)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished;
         (c)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, the plot plan
shall not be required in the instance where all construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to streets,
curbs and sidewalks;
         (d)   If required by Indiana law or any rule of the Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be
done that has been issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3;
         (e)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds
to be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all
applicable building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances
or laws; and
         (f)   The fee established by the Town of Fremont, Indiana for permits.
      (3)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person
entitled to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The
Building Commissioner may require that an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person
after the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable
fee, provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.29 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be
issued unless the building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this Building Chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any building or structure unless a
full, patrial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.30 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
   (B)   (1)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in,
upon, around or about the premises where any structure subject to the
provisions of this Building Chapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and
investigation of a structure.
      (2)   Inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this Building Chapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work
cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance
with fire safety laws (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17).
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -)
§ 151.31 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds) to the Building Commissioner the Building Commissioner may
withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits until a time that the
debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until a time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -)
§ 151.32 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
   (C)   There is failure to comply with the Building Chapter; or
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -)
§ 151.33 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner's agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this Building Chapter or
any state law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this Building Chapter or
in a manner so that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a
reasonable probability that it will substantially difficult to correct the
violation; or
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this Building Chapter.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -)
§ 151.34 CIVIL ACTION; RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a civil action in a
court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a
provision of this Building Chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this Building Chapter
shall have the right to petition for review of any order of the Building
Commissioner. A person may file a petition using either, or both, of the
following procedures.
      (1)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this Building
Chapter may appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in
accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
town that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, 22-13, 22-14, and 22-15, a
fire safety or a building rule.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
         (d)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this Building Chapter.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any
statute in which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the
order.
      (2)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. If,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the town has established by ordinance to hear
appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person aggrieved by an order
may petition for review with this administrative body in accordance with said
ordinance. If no administrative body exists, then the person may petition a
court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -)
§ 151.35 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes.
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards.
         (b)   Indiana Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code.
      (3)   Article 16 – Indiana Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17 – Indiana Electrical Code.
      (5)   Article 18 – Indiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 – Indiana Energy Conservation Code.
      (7)   Article 20 – Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
      (8)   Article 22 – Indiana Fire Code.
      (9)   Article 24 – Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code.
      (10)   Article 25 – Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for public
inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this Building Chapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance
granted by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been
approved by Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -)
§ 151.36 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference.
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   If it is determined that there is a violation of §§
151.01 through
151.08 a notice of violation will be sent to the property owner.
      (2)   If the property owner fails to remedy the problem within the time
allotted in the first notice the town will have the right at their discretion
to make the necessary repairs and/or remove the fence.
      (3)   The cost of repairs or removal or other charges incurred by the
town in enforcing this chapter will be charged to the property owner and the
town may place a lien on the property owner's property for the amount of the
charges and in addition or in the alternative may file suit in Steuben County
Small Claims Court to recover these costs along with reasonable attorney fees.
      (4)   Any person who fails to comply with requirements of the notice as
provided in §§
151.01 through
151.08 may be issued a citation by any law enforcement officer having
jurisdiction. A person convicted of a violation shall be punished by a fine of
not more than $500.
(1996 Code, § 7-20)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
151.25 through
151.36 may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment
of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the operation of the penalties
provided elsewhere in the Building Code.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed - -)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Zoning ordinance and amendments adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ZONING ORDINANCE AND AMENDMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The revised zoning ordinance, copies of which are on file in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Am. Ord. 2001-04, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2001-11, passed - -; Ord.2003-07,
passed 6-26-2003; Am. Ord. 2004-17, passed 8-9-2004; Am. Ord. 2010-07, passed
5-18-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-14-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
   
I.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
II.   ZONING
   
III.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2001-13  1-14-2002   Vacates Washington Street within and bounded by real
                     estate in Follet Estates Addition
2002-03  4-8-2002    Vacates Water Street within and bounded by real estate
                     owned by Ned Snyder and Marian J. Snyder
2004-9   4-12-2004   Renames certain roadway located within town known as
                     “Euclid Street” to “South Coffin Street”
                     Vacates portion of Broad Street within the town, beginning
2006-12  6-20-2006   at the southeast corner of Lot 49 and running south to
                     State Road 827
                     Vacates portion of Bowery Street and a portion of a 16
2009-05  11-17-2009  foot wide platted alley within and bounded by real estate
                     owned by Charles W. Freeburn and Julia E. Freeburn
                     Amending Ordinance 2009-05, vacating a portion of Bowery
2009-06  11-23-2009  Street and a portion of a 16 foot wide platted alley
                     within and bounded by real estate owned by Charles W.
                     Freeburn and Julia E. Freeburn
2017-07  11-21-2017  Vacates portions of Sierer Street, Shepard Street and part
                     of an alley, all located in Sierer's Addition.
2019-09  12-17-2019  Vacates portions of Tillotson undeveloped platted roadway.
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
98-04    7-13-1998   Approves petition of Joe Shively to rezone 4 acres of land
                     to Rural Residential
01-2001  7-2-2002    Rezones a part of the southwest quarter of section 20,
                     located inside parcels 13, 14 and 14.01 from ER to R1
2002-05A 7-8-2002    Approves petition of Fremont Community Schools for
                     rezoning of land
                     Annexes a part of the west half of the northeast quarter
2003-01  3-10-2003   of section 20, commencing at a point beginning marked by a
                     railroad spike found in the road surface of County Road
                     600 North
2003-08  7-14-2003   Repeals Ord. 2003-02, rezoning a certain tract of real
                     property
2004-16  7-12-2004   Approves petition of Lester Taylor, rezoning land from
                     Agricultural to Business
2004-19  8-9-2004    Approves petition of Randy and Ardis Palmerton to rezone
                     land from Agricultural to Industrial
                     Approves deduction from assessed valuation for certain
2006-02  4-18-2006   real property improvements located within an Economic
                     Revitalization Area
                     Rezones certain properties as described therein from B-
2014-02  6-17-2014   1 Small Business District and R-3 Multi-Family Residential
                     to I-2 Light Industrial
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2010-03  5-21-2010   Annexing approximately 590 acres
                     Annexing approximately 23.59 acres owned by G. and R.
2011-01  3-15-2011   Chupp and W. and R. Wasson on the north side of the
                     existing corporate boundaries of the town
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1996 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                Code Section
1-1-1-5                     10.05
1-1-1-7                     10.13
1-1-1-8                     10.07
1-1-4-5                     10.06
1-1-5-1                     10.12
1-1-6-1                     10.09
4-21.5-3-7                  151.34
5-3-1                       150.022,
                            150.023
5-4-1                       32.36
5-4-1-1 et seq.             34.03
5-11-1-27                   35.70
5-14-1.5                    30.20
5-14-1.5-2                  30.20
5-14-3                      34.07,
                            35.06
5-14-3 et seq.              34.07
5-22                        35.22
5-22-10-10                  35.22
6-1.1-12.1-1 – 6-1.1-12.1-35.20
6-1.1-12.1-3                35.21
6-1.1-12.1-4.5              35.21
6-1.1-12.1-4.8              35.21
6-2.5-5-26                  111.24
6-2.5-8                     111.24
8-1-32.3-8                  50.07
8-1-32.3-12                 50.07
8-1.5-3-8                   51.17
9-13-2 et seq.              93.01
9-13-2-1 et seq.            71.01
9-13-2-23                   70.03
9-17-2-12                   35.51
9-21-2 et seq.              71.03
9-21-3 et seq.              71.03
9-21-4 et seq.              71.03
9-21-4-19                   71.03
9-22-1 et seq.              93.01
9-29-4-2                    35.05,
                            35.51
10-14-3 et seq.             30.11
10-14-3-22                  91.022
10-14-3-29                  30.11,
                            91.022
10-14-3-29 et seq.          30.11
14-8-2-5.7                  71.06
16-41-27-4                  151.26
22-9-1-4 et seq.            95.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.            95.01
22-9.5-2-2                  95.02
22-9.5-2-9                  95.02
22-9.5-2-13                 95.02
22-9.5-3                    95.09
22-9.5-3 et seq.            95.03
22-9.5-5                    95.02
22-9.5-5-1                  95.03
22-9.5-6                    95.02,
                            95.10
22-11-14-8(a)               96.02
22-11-14-10.5               91.022
22-12                       151.34
22-12-1-4                   151.26
22-12-1-5                   151.26
22-12-1-7                   151.26
22-12-1-14                  151.26
22-12-1-16                  151.26
22-12-1-17                  151.26
22-12-1-18                  151.26
22-12-1-22(b)(12)           151.36
22-12-1-24                  151.26
22-12-1-26                  151.26
22-12-7                     151.27
22-13                       151.34
22-13-2-3(b)                151.35
22-13-2-6                   151.27
22-13-2-7                   151.34
22-13-2-7(b)                151.35
22-13-2-9                   151.27
22-13-2-11                  151.27
22-14                       151.34
22-15                       151.34
22-15-3                     151.28
22-15-4                     151.27
25-6.1                      111.24
32-25-2-9                   151.26
33-37-5-2                   35.06
35-25-1 – 32-25-9         150.003
35-41-3-2                   91.080
35-47-2-3                   35.04
36-1-3-4                    150.004
36-1-3-8(a)(10)             10.99
                            10.19,
36-1-5-4                    151.35,
                            151.36
36-1-6-4                    151.34
36-1-6-9                    151.34
36-1-7-1 – 36-1-7-12      35.36
36-1-20.2 et seq.           34.09
36-1-20.2-10                34.09
36-1-21 et seq.             34.09
36-5-5-5                    32.36
36-5-5-8                    32.36 –
                            32.38
36-5-6-2                    32.02
36-5-7-4                    32.17
36-5-7-6                    32.18
36-7-1-2                    150.003
36-7-3                      150.009
36-7-4-700                  150.003,
                            150.004
36-7-4-708(d)               150.022,
                            150.023
36-7-9                      151.06
36-7-9-2                    151.06
36-7-9-3                    151.06
36-7-9-4                    151.01
36-7-10.1-4                 91.107
36-7-12-1 et seq.          33.01
36-8-2-4                    91.082,
                            151.06
36-8-10.5-6                 32.51
36-8-17                     151.30
36-10-3-3                   90.01
36-10-3-10                  90.01
36-10-3-11                  90.01
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1996 CODE
1996 Code 2007 Code
1996 Code              2007 Code
1-3                    10.05,
                       10.06
1-10                   10.18
2-1                    32.01
2-1-2-2                32.02
2-2                    32.02
2-3                    32.03
2-4                    32.04
2-7                    32.16
2-8                    32.17
2-9                    32.18
2-14                   32.21
2-16                   32.23
2-23                   32.35
2-24                   32.36
2-25                   32.36
2-31                   33.01
2-32                   33.01
2-33                   33.01
2-37                   33.02
2-38                   33.03
2-39                   33.04
2-40                   33.05
2-41                   33.06
2-42                   33.07
2-43                   33.08
2-47                   33.20
2-48                   33.21
2-57                   34.01
2-58                   34.02
2-59                   34.03
2-60                   34.04
2-86                   35.01
2-87                   35.02
2-88                   35.03
2-89                   35.04
2-90                   35.05
2-92                   35.06
2-93                   35.07
2-94                   35.08
2-100                  35.35
2-101                  35.36
3-1                    30.01
3-2                    30.02
3-4                    30.03
3-5                    30.04
3-6                    30.05
3-7                    30.06
3-10                   30.07
3-11                   30.08
3-12                   30.09
3-13                   30.10
4-1                    110.01
4-2                    110.02
4-3                    110.03
4-4                    110.04
4-5                    110.05
4-9                    111.01
4-10                   111.02
4-12                   111.03
4-13                   111.04
4-14                   111.05
4-27                   35.51
4-28                   35.52
4-29                   35.53
4-30                   35.54
4-36                   30.05
4-41                   35.20
5-1                    90.01
5-2                    90.02
6-1                    91.001
6-2                    91.002
6-3                    91.003
6-4                    91.004
6-5                    92.01
6-9                    92.02
6-10                   92.03
6-11                   92.04
6-12                   92.05
6-13                   92.06
6-15                   92.07
6-21                   91.015
6-22                   91.016
6-23                   91.017
6-29                   130.01
6-30                   130.02
6-31                   130.03
6-32                   130.99
6-38                   91.018
6-39                   91.019
6-40                   91.020
6-56                   53.03
6-58                   53.04
6-59                   53.05
6-61                   53.07
6-62                   53.08
6-63                   53.09
6-65                   53.10
6-66                   53.11
6-71                   91.065
6-72                   91.066
6-84                   91.067
6-85                   91.068
6-94                   91.081
6-95                   91.082
6-96                   91.083
6-97                   91.084
6-98                   91.085
6-99                   91.086
6-100                  91.087
6-101                  91.088
7-4                    151.01
7-5                    151.02
7-6                    151.03
7-7                    151.03
7-8                    151.04
7-9                    151.05
7-10                   151.05
7-11                   151.06
7-16                   151.07
7-20                   151.08,
                       151.99
7.5-1                  95.01
7.5-2                  95.02
7.5-3                  95.03
7.5-4                  95.04
7.5-5                  95.05
7.5-6                  95.06
7.5-7                  95.07
7.5-8                  95.08
7.5-9                  95.09
7.5-10                 95.10
7.5-11                 95.11
7.5-12                 95.11
8-1                    71.01
8-2                    71.02,
                       71.99
8-6                    71.03
8-11                   Ch. 75, Sch. IV
8-13                   Ch. 75, Sch. III
8-15                   72.01
8-17                   72.02,
                       72.99
8-20                   71.04,
                       71.99
8-21                   Ch. 74, Sch. III
8-21.1                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
8-22                   Ch. 74, Sch. III
8-23                   Ch. 74, Sch. III
8-24                   Ch. 74, Sch. III
8-25                   Ch. 74, Sch. III
8-26                   71.99,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. III
8-31                   73.01
8-32                   73.02
8-33                   73.03
8-34                   73.04
8-35                   73.05
8-36                   73.06
8-37                   73.07
8-38                   73.08
8-45                   70.01,
                       70.99
8-46                   Ch. 74, Sch. IV
8-48                   70.02,
                       70.99
9-1                    50.01
9-8                    51.30
9-21                   50.25,
                       52.01
9-22                   52.02
9-23                   52.03
9-24                   52.04
9-25                   52.05
9-26                   52.06
9-27                   52.20
9-28                   52.21
9-29                   52.22
9-30                   52.23
9-31                   52.24
9-32                   52.25
9-33                   52.26
9-34                   52.27
9-35                   50.02
9-36                   50.03
9-37                   50.02
9-38                   50.04
9-38.1                 50.05
9-38.2                 50.06
9-39                   50.25
9-40                   50.25
9-41                   50.26
9-42                   50.27
9-43                   50.28
9-44                   50.29
9-45                   50.30
9-46                   50.31
9-47                   50.31
9-48                   50.32
9-49                   50.32
9-51                   50.34
9-52                   50.35
9-53                   50.36
9-54                   52.40
9-55                   52.41
9-56                   52.42
9-57                   52.43
9-58                   52.44
9-59                   52.45
9-60                   52.46
9-61                   52.47
9-62                   52.48
9-63                   52.48
9-64                   52.49
9-65                   52.50
9-66                   52.51
9-67                   52.51
9-68                   52.52
9-69                   Ch. 52, App. A
9-70                   52.53
9-71                   52.54
9-72                   52.55
9-73                   52.56
9-74                   52.07
9-78                   52.08
9-86                   50.37
Chap. 11, § 1.1       150.001
Chap. 11, § 1.2       150.001
Chap. 11, § 1.3       150.004
Chap. 11, § 1.5       150.005
Chap. 11, § 1.6       150.006
Chap. 11, §§ 1.7–1.150.007
Chap. 11, § 1.11      150.008
Chap. 11, §§ 1.12–1150.009
Chap. 11, § 1.14      150.999
Chap. 11, § 2.1       150.002
Chap. 11, § 2.2       150.003
Chap. 11, § 3.1       150.020
Chap. 11, § 3.2       150.021
Chap. 11, § 3.3       150.022,
                       150.023
Chap. 11, § 3.4       150.023
Chap. 11, § 3.5       150.024
Chap. 11, Figure 3-1   150.021
Chap. 11, Figure 3-2   150.021
Chap. 11, Figure 3-3   150.023
Chap. 11, § 4.1       150.035
Chap. 11, § 4.2       150.036
Chap. 11, § 4.3       150.037
Chap. 11, § 4.4       150.038
Chap. 11, § 4.5       150.039
Chap. 11, § 4.6       150.040
Chap. 11, § 4.7       150.041
Chap. 11, § 4.8       150.042,
                       150.063
Chap. 11, § 4.9       150.043
Chap. 11, § 4.10      150.044
Chap. 11, § 4.11      150.045
Chap. 11, Figure 4-1   Ch. 150, App. C
Chap. 11, Figure 4-2   150.041,
                       Ch. 150, App. D
Chap. 11, Figure 4-3   Ch. 150, App. E
Chap. 11, Figure 4-4   Ch. 150, App. E
Chap. 11, Figure 4-5   Ch. 150, App. F
Chap. 11, Table 4-1    Ch. 150, App. B
Chap. 11, Table 4-3    150.043
Chap. 11, § 5.1       150.060
Chap. 11, § 5.2       150.061
Chap. 11, § 5.3       150.062
Chap. 11, § 6.1       150.075
Chap. 11, § 6.2       150.076
Chap. 11, § 6.3       150.077
Chap. 11, § 6.4       150.078
Chap. 11, § 6.5       150.079
Chap. 11, Figure 6-1   Ch. 150, App. G
Chap. 11, App. A       Ch. 150, App. A
                       
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2006-07  12-19-2006  150.041
2008-03  5-12-2008   35.50 -
                     35.52
2008-07  10-20-2008  34.04
2008-08  11-18-2008  34.04
2009-02  4-21-2009   50.50 -
                     50.56
2009-03  4-21-2009   90.03
2009-05  12-15-2009  34.04
2012-03  9-18-2012   34.06
2016-02  2-16-2016   35.26
2017-02  4-29-2017   50.07
2021-03  4-20-2021   151.09
2022-03  9-20-2022   30.20 -
                     30.23
2022-4   11-17-2022  35.18
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
- -      - -         Ch. 150, App. B
98       - -         TSO II
98-04    7-13-1998   TSO II
                     111.15–
2000-4   4-10-2000   111.28,
                     111.99
2001-03  9-10-2001   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2001-04  - -         152.01
2001-09  1-14-2001   52.40
2001-11  - -         152.01
2001-13  1-14-2002   TSO I
2001-15  1-14-2002   52.47
2002-03  4-8-2002    TSO I
01-2001  7-2-2002    TSO II
2002-05A 7-8-2002    TSO II
2002-06  11-12-2002  Ch. 75, Sch. III
2002-07  11-12-2002  Ch. 75, Sch. III
2003-01  3-10-2003   TSO II
2003-04  6-9-2003    91.021
2003-07  6-26-2003   152.01
2003-08  7-14-2003   TSO II
2003-10  12-8-2003   32.50,
                     32.51
2003-11  12-8-2003   33.35–
                     33.37
2003-13  12-22-2003  150.062
2003-14  12-22-2003  50.33
2004-01  2-9-2004    72.03,
                     72.99
2004-06  3-8-2004    50.38
2004-04  4-12-2004   35.22
2004-9   4-12-2004   TSO I
2004-10  5-10-2004   Ch. 75, Sch. II
2004-12  5-10-2004   73.04
                     32.15,
                     32.20,
2004-13  5-10-2004   32.22,
                     32.37,
                     32.38
2004-16  7-12-2004   TSO II
2004-17  8-9-2004    152.01
2004-18  8-9-2004    71.04,
                     71.99
2004-19  8-9-2004    TSO II
2004-20  8-30-2004   34.07
2004-23  9-13-2004   50.39
2004-24  9-20-2004   Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. III
2004-27  11-16-2004  34.06
2005-01  2-8-2005    35.09
2005-02  2-8-2005    35.09
2005-03  2-8-2005    35.09
2005-04  2-8-2005    35.09
2005-05  2-8-2005    35.09
2005-07  2-15-2005   35.09
2005-10  6-21-2005   35.09
2005-15  7-19-2005   91.005
                     151.25–
2005-16  - -         151.36,
                     151.99
2005-21  12-20-2005  35.21
2006-01  1-17-2006   35.09
2006-02  1-17-2006   35.09
2006-03  1-17-2006   35.09 
2006-04  3-21-2006   32.02
2006-02  4-18-2006   TSO II
2006-06  4-18-2006   Ch. 74, Sch. III
                     94.01–
07-2006  4-18-2006   94.05,
                     94.99
2006-08  4-18-2006   32.19
2006-09  5-8-2006    34.05
2006-11  6-20-2006   35.50
2006-12  6-20-2006   TSO I
2006-13  6-28-2006   35.09
2006-14  6-28-2006   35.10
2006-15  7-18-2006   35.09
2006-16  7-18-2006   35.09
2006-17  8-15-2006   34.08
2006-19  9-19-2006   91.100–
                     91.110
2006-22  10-17-2006  Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. III
2006-21  11-21-2006  Ch. 52, App. A
2006-24  11-21-2006  35.09
2006-25  12-19-2006  35.09
2007-02  2-20-2007   35.11
2007-03  3-20-2007   Ch. 75, Sch. III
2007-06  6-9-2007    93.01 -
                     93.12
2007-07  6-19-2007   Adopting Ordinance
2007-08  7-17-2007   52.23
2007-09  7-17-2007   35.23,
                     35.24
                     96.01 -
2007-10  8-21-2007   96.03,
                     96.05,
                     96.99
2007-11  9-10-2007   52.47
2007-13  10-16-2007  35.09
2007-14  10-16-2007  34.04
2007-17  12-18-2007  35.09
2007-18  12-18-2007  35.09
2007-19  1-8-2008    Ch. 74, Sch. V
2007-20  12-28-2007  34.05
2008-01  3-18-2008   35.09
2008-02  3-18-2008   35.09
2008-03  4-15-2008   34.04
2008-04  5-12-2008   35.09
2008-05  5-12-2008   70.03
2008-06  5-12-2008   35.09
2009-01  7-28-2009   35.12
2009-02  7-28-2009   35.13
2009-05  11-17-2009  TSO I
2009-06  11-23-2009  TSO I
2010-01  1-5-2010    34.04
                     32.22,
                     32.35 -
2010-02  1-5-2009    32.38,
                     34.04,
                     150.041,
                     151.07
2010-03  5-21-2010   TSO III
2010-04  2-16-2010   35.09
2010-05  2-16-2010   111.06
2010-06  4-20-2010   35.09
2010-07  5-18-2010   152.01
2011-01  3-15-2011   TSO III
2011-11  4-19-2011   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2012-01  1-17-2012   Ch. 52, App. A
                     50.31,
                     50.33,
2012-02  3-20-2012   52.01,
                     52.05,
                     52.09 -
                     52.13
2012-04  6-19-2012   34.09
2012-05  7-5-2012    30.11
2012-06  7-5-2012    91.022,
                     91.999
2012-07  8-21-2012   Ch. 52, App. A
2012-08  9-18-2012   Ch. 75, Sch. V
2012-11  9-18-2012   34.04
2013-01  1-15-2013   112.01 -
                     112.19
2013-02  5-14-2013   152.01
2013-04  7-16-2013   51.30
2014-02  6-17-2014   TSO II
                     96.01 -
2014-06  11-18-2014  96.03,
                     96.05,
                     96.99
                     53.02 -
                     53.04,
2014-08  - -2014     53.06,
                     53.07,
                     53.11
2015-03  7-21-2015   71.06
2015-04  12-22-2015  34.04
2015-08  12-15-2015  34.04
2015-10  12-22-2015  34.04
2016-2   2-16-2016   35.25
2016-03  3-15-2016   32.02
2016-5   7-19-2016   35.70 -
                     35.77
                     96.01 -
2016-07  9-20-2016   96.05,
                     96.99
2016-08  9-20-2016   35.22
2016-10  11-15-2016  34.04
2016-13  - -         91.080
2017-01  3-20-2017   51.01,
                     Ch. 52, App. A
2017-03  7-18-2017   71.06
2017-07  11-21-2017  TSO I
                     113.01 -
2018-01  4-17-2018   113.06,
                     113.99
2018-02  5-15-2018   35.14
2018-05  10-16-2018  Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. II
2018-08  11-20-2018  35.15
2019-02  9-17-2019   35.16
2019-03  9-17-2019   34.05
2019-09  12-17-2019  TSO I
2019-10  12-17-2019  53.01
2020-01  5-12-2020   34.10
2020-02  6-16-2020   10.99
2020-05  10-20-2020  35.10
2021-01  4-20-2021   51.30
2021-02  4- -2021    35.17
2021-05  10-19-2021  35.10
2021-09v 12-30-2021  35.15
2021-10  12-30-2021  34.04
2022-01  3-15-2022   53.01 -
                     53.15
                     51.01,
2022-02  6-21-2022   51.10 -
                     51.18,
                     51.30
2022-08  12-13-2022  35.19
2022-09  12-29-2022  35.19A
2022-10  12-29-2022  35.15
                    
 
