GALVESTON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-14-2025; and
State legislation current through 2025 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 1
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
Clerk-Treasurer    Barry Bellan
Town Council President    Cindy Leduc
Town Council Vice President    Todd Fry
Council member    Michael Deis
Council member    Sam Levine
Council member    Sunny Saylor Gordon
ADOPTED ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE (TOWN OF GALVESTON, INDIANA)
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF GALVESTON DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE
OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Galveston
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Town of Galveston to revise, amend, restate, codify, and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Galveston has authorized a general
compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
Galveston of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance
in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation and
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes
effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF GALVESTON:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Galveston revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Galveston, Indiana.
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   GALVESTON, INDIANA
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
            10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
            11.   Town Standards
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
            30.   Town Council
            31.   Officials and Organizations
            32.   Finance and Revenue; Funds
            33.   Personnel Policies
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
            50.   Garbage
            51.   Water
            52.   Sewers
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
            70.   Traffic Regulations
            71.   Parking Rules
            72.   Recreational Vehicles
            73.   Cargo Vehicles
            74.   Traffic Schedules
            75.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
            90.   Alarm Systems
            91.   Animals
            92.   Fire Prevention; Burning
            93.   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances
            94.   Streets and Sidewalks
            95.   Parks and Recreation
            96.   Trees
            97.   Fair Housing
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
            110.   General Licensing Provisions
            111.   Sexually Oriented Businesses
            112.   Hawkers; Peddlers; Transient Merchants
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
            130.   Offenses Against Public Peace and Morals
            131.   Offenses Involving Minors
            132.   Offenses Against Property
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
            150.   Unsafe Buildings
            151.   Camps; Trailers
            152.   Building Code
            153.   Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
            I.   Agreements
            II.   Annexations
            III.   Franchises
            IV.   Vacations
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Indiana Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and preordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
Levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of
Galveston is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect of provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinances and all provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
2025 S-1
4   Galveston - Adopting Ordinance
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
Section 7.   VALIDITY
Section 501.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed.
Section 502.   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence, or provision of
this Ordinance shall not affect the validity of any other part of this
Ordinance.
ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF GALVESTON, CASS\COUNTY, INDIANA, ON
THIS  10  DAY OF  June  2024.
X                                                                         X /s/
Todd Fry
President, Wes Hull                           Vice President, Todd Fry
X Sam Levine          X /s/ Sunny Saylor-Gordon
Sam Levine                                 Sunny Saylor- Gordon
X /s/ Cynthia Leduc
Cynthia Leduc
ATTEST:
X /s/ Barry Bellan
Barry Bellan, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Galveston
Town Code,” for which designation “Galveston Code of Ordinances,” “Galveston
Codified Ordinances,” or “Galveston Code” may be substituted. Code title,
chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part of the law as
contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council of Galveston,
Indiana.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Galveston, Indiana.
      COUNTY. The County of Cass, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Galveston, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Includes printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   The Town Council authorizes the Town Attorney to prosecute unpaid
fines for ordinance violations in the Circuit and Superior Court.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 11-7-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town location
§ 11.01 TOWN LOCATION.
   The location of the town is as follows:
Commencing 20 feet east of the northwest corner of the northeast quarter of
Section 33 in Township 25 North, Range 3 East in Cass County, Indiana; running
thence south 700 feet; thence east 965 feet; thence south 250 feet; thence east
1,935 feet; thence north 2,675 feet; thence west 2,043 feet; thence south 419
feet; thence west 211 feet; thence south 256 feet; thence west 662 feet to a
point 20 feet east of the half section line of Section 28, Township and Range
aforesaid; thence south 1,038 feet to the place of beginning, containing 159.93
acres.
(Ord. passed - - )
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Elections
§ 30.01 ELECTIONS.
   Elections for the offices of the Town Council members and Clerk-Treasurer
shall be conducted during general elections. The terms for the elected offices
for the town shall be as follows.
   (A)   Town Council members. The Town Council shall consist of five members,
all of whom shall be elected every four years for a four-year term.
   (B)   Town Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected every
four years for a four-year term.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-3, the County Election Board shall conduct
elections for the town. The Clerk-Treasurer and the President of the Town
Council are authorized to take all action necessary to transfer authority to
conduct elections in the county.
   (C)   Town Council districts or wards are abolished. All members of the Town
Council shall be elected at large.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-5-2018)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Government Officials
   
31.01   Code Enforcement Officer
   
31.02   Wages and salaries
Departments, Boards, and Organizations
   
31.15   Department of Storm Water Management
   
31.16   Fire Department
   
31.17   Board of Parks and Recreation
Police Department
   
31.30   Police Reserve officers
   
31.31   Police Department Auxiliary Support Unit
   
31.32   Officer retirement procedures
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
§ 31.01 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The duties of the Code Enforcement Officer for the town shall be as follows.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall enforce all ordinances adopted by
the town.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer will be responsible for electronic
fingerprinting of all citizens requesting gun permits.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer will be responsible for being the School
Liaison Officer, and be in charge of making child identification DVD’s for all
students at said school.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Officer will maintain arrest powers, and continue
with mandated training as per the State Law Enforcement Academy and state
requirements.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Officer will still be available to the Town
Police Department when needed, but will be under the Supervision of the Town
Planning Board and Town Council when enforcing town ordinances.
   (F)   The Code Enforcement Officer will work at the pleasure of the Town
Council.
   (G)   The Code Enforcement Officer will complete any and all duties as
requested or assigned by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 31.02 WAGES AND SALARIES.
   (A)   Water, sewer, and office employees. The following rates shall be paid
to town employees.
 
Certified technician (full-time) $25 - $28/hour
General laborer (full-time)      $10.50 - $20/hour
General laborer (part-time)      $10 - $15/hour
Office Clerk - Water/Sewer       $14.50 - $18/hour
Town Superintendent              $80,000/year
Utility Clerk - Water/Sewer      $14.50 - $18/hour
 
   (B)   Elected officials. The following rates shall be paid to town
officials.
 
Clerk-Treasurer   $40,300/year
Council member    $250/month
Council President $300/month
 
   (C)   Law enforcement employees. The following rates shall be paid to law
enforcement employees.
 
Deputy Marshal (part-time) $20.50 - $28/hour
Town Marshal               $50,000/year
 
(Ord. 2023-09, passed 12-21-2023; Ord. 2024-04, passed 12-9-2024)
DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.15 DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts the provisions of the Act, and thus
establishes the Department of Storm Water Management (“the Department”).
   (B)   Pursuant to the Act, a three-member board of directors (“the Board”)
shall control the Department. The Town Council President is hereby directed to
appoint the directors. Each director shall serve for a two-year term (or until
a successor is appointed), except that the initial term of the first-appointed
director shall begin on the date of appointment and expire in two years (or, in
each case, when a successor director is appointed). No more than two directors
may be of the same political party. Directors shall not receive a salary for
their service, but shall be reimbursed for necessary expenses incurred in the
execution of their official duties.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act, this Town Council hereby creates a special taxing
district to be known as the Storm Water Management District (“the District”).
The District’s boundaries shall be the town’s corporate limits.
(Ord. 99-5, passed 7-12-1999)
§ 31.16 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council by virtue of the office shall be Fire Wardens,
provided that the Council may, at its discretion, appoint not exceeding three
Fire Wardens.
   (B)   The Fire Wardens shall have power at all reasonable hours to enter
into and examine all dwellings, outhouses, and lots in the town to inspect all
places wherein fires are kept, and/or to ascertain how ashes are kept and
disposed of.
   (C)   The Fire Wardens shall have power to regulate the construction of all
chimneys, hearths, ovens, the erection of stoves, stove pipes, boilers, and all
other apparatus used in manufacturing in buildings and cause the same to be
removed or made secure or considered dangerous to compel owners and occupants
of house buildings to make scuttles to the roofs thereof, and stairs or leading
to the same and to prevent the storage of large quantities of straw, hay,
shavings, or other inflammable material in the fire or other dangerous places.
   (D)   They shall have power to purchase or accept by donation necessary fire
apparatus for the extinguishing of fires and have charge and control of the
same and shall provide houses for the preservation and security. They shall
have power to organize fire hook and ladder companies from reputable citizens
of the town auxiliary companies thereto and make rules for their government
regulation, with such penalties for neglect and misconduct as deemed proper and
may remove members of such companies as others in their stead.
   (E)   The Fire Wardens shall have the power to appoint a Fire Chief who
shall, with the advice and consent of the Council, appoint two assistants or
captains of hose carts.
   (F)   The Fire Chief shall have the superintendance of an apparatus for the
extinguishing of fires belonging to the town to keep in good order and from
time to time report to the Council the condition of the same, and the repairs
or addition thereto, to render the Department efficient.
   (G)   When the Chief and his or her assistants are on duty, all the powers
of police officers during the continuance of a fire.
   (H)   In case of fire, the Fire Chief shall have full control of the
apparatus of the Fire Department and issue such orders for the call of fires as
he or she may deem to be expedient, he or she shall have power of extra
sessions of the Department for practice drill, or for placing apparatus in
order, and when on duty shall have power to supply disturbances or to arrest
any person who may commit a breach of peace or any depredation or injury to the
property of another, or shall refuse to obey any order lawfully given by the
Chief and to conduct the offenders before the Town Clerk-Treasurer or other
program or to commit him or her to jail until a hearing can be had.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a member of the Fire
Department, to handle or remove from any Fire Department building belonging to
the town, any apparatus, axe, ladder, ladder, bucket, crowbar, wrench, hose,
nozzle, or other tool, or apparatus belonging to the Department except in case
of a fire, and then or under the direction of some member of the Department.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or detain the
Department or any member thereof from promptly and any alarm of fire or
practice drill or from obeying the command of the Fire Chief at any fire within
the corporate limits of the town and any person to drive across any hose
belonging to the Department at a fire or during practice drill.
(Ord. 17, passed 1-23-1905) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention; burning, see
Chapter 92
§ 31.17 BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3, there is hereby created a Board
of Parks and Recreation.
   (B)   (1)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall be composed of four members
appointed by the Town Council on the basis of their interest in and knowledge
of parks and recreation.
      (2)   The Town Council waives the requirement that “no more than two
members shall be of the same political party,” per I.C. 36-10-3-4.1.
      (3)   The Town Council shall appoint a (non-voting) liaison to the Board
of Parks and Recreation from the elected body. The liaison appointment will be
for a one-year term from January to December. The liaison may serve as an
unpaid secretary at the will of the Park Board.
   (C)   (1)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms initially appointed
shall be:
         (a)   One member for a term of one year;
         (b)   One member for a term of two years;
         (c)   One member for a term of three years; and
         (d)   One member for a term of four years.
      (2)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the Town
Council for a term of four years.
      (3)   All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member shall
continue in office until his or her successor is appointed. If an appointment
for a new term is not made by the Town Council by the first Monday in April,
the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy occurs, the executive
shall appoint a new member for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (D)   (1)   A member may be removed only for cause, upon specific written
charges filed against the member. The charges shall be filed with and heard by
the appointing authority, unless the appointing authority is bringing the
charges. If the appointing authority is bringing the charges, the unit’s fiscal
body shall appoint a hearing officer. The person to hear the charges shall fix
a date for a public hearing and give public notice at least ten days in advance
of the hearing. At the hearing, the member is entitled to present evidence and
argument and to be represented by counsel.
      (2)   At its first regular meeting each year, the Board shall elect a
president and vice-president. The vice-president shall have authority to act as
the president of the Board during the absence or disability of the president.
The Board may select a secretary from within its own membership, or elect to
have the Town Council liaison serve in this capacity. All positions serving
within this Board shall be unpaid.
      (3)   All meetings of the Board are open to the public. The Board shall
fix the time and place of its regular meetings, but it shall meet at least
monthly.
   (E)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have all the powers listed in I.C. 36-10-3 et seq.
   (F)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of town government as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-12-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Parks and recreation, generally, see
Chapter 95
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-10-3-5 and 36-10-3-6
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.30 POLICE RESERVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Establishment of Reserve Force. There shall be a force of police
reserve officers which shall assist the Town Marshal and his or her deputies,
as provided for by the Department’s rule. There are three levels of the reserve
program, i.e., Auxiliary, Reserve Class 2, and Reserve Class 1.
   (B)   Appointment. Reserve officers shall be appointed by the Town Marshal,
as provided by I.C. 36-8-3-20. The Town Marshal may establish rules,
procedures, and requirements for the application and hiring of reserve
officers.
   (C)   Not Department members; authority. Reserve officers are not members of
the Police Department, but they have all of the same police powers as regular
officers, except as limited by this section or the Department’s rules. The
Department, through the Town Marshal, may adopt rules that limit the authority
of reserve officers. In addition to the other limitations imposed by the Town
Marshal, a reserve officer shall not have the authority to make an arrest,
conduct a search or a seizure of a person or property, or carry a badge or
firearm unless and until he or she successfully completes a pre-basic course
under I.C. 5-2-1-9(f).
   (D)   Compensation. Reserve officers are volunteers and will receive no
wages or salaries. To the extent money is appropriated by the Town Council,
reserve officers may receive:
      (1)   A uniform allowance; and
      (2)   Compensation for time lost from other employment because of court
appearances.
   (E)   No pension. Reserve officers are not eligible for any pension or
retirement benefits.
   (F)   Training. A reserve officer may not be appointed to the Department
until completing the training and probationary period specified by the
Department’s rules. In addition, reserve officers must also complete the
mandatory in-service training established by the State Law Enforcement Training
Board, unless that Board waives such in-service training for any particular
officer, and any other training deemed necessary by the Town Marshal.
   (G)   Injury benefits.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-22, the town shall provide for a reserve
officer who is injured or contracts an illness in the course of or as the
result of performing duties as police reserve officer, without charge to the
officer, the physician, surgical, hospital, and nursing services and supplies
the physician or surgeon in charge determines necessary. The town may satisfy
these obligations, and may seek recovery or reimbursement from a responsible
third party of any amounts paid for care described in this section, as provided
in I.C. 36-8-3-22 or as otherwise allowed by law.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-23, if a police reserve officer is unable
to pursue the officer’s usual vocation as the result of an injury or illness
occurring in the course of or as the result of performing duties as police
reserve officer, the town shall pay such officer a weekly amount that may not
be less than the state’s minimum wage and computed on the basis of a 40-hour
week, for the lesser of:
         (a)   The period the officer is unable to pursue his or her usual
vocation; or
         (b)   Two-hundred-sixty weeks.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed - -)
§ 31.31 POLICE DEPARTMENT AUXILIARY SUPPORT UNIT.
   In addition to reserve officers described in §
31.30, the Town Police Department may utilize the services of a voluntary
auxiliary support unit to assist the Department in carrying out its functions.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed - -)
§ 31.32 OFFICER RETIREMENT PROCEDURES.
   The town shall allow the retiring police officer, after accumulating 20
years or more time working for the town, to receive his or her duty weapon, a
retirement badge, and a retirement ID card in appreciation for service given to
the town.
(Ord. 2016-16, passed 12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Certain unused funds
   
32.02   Purchase order procedures
   
32.03   Town Clerk-Treasurer to pay orders; regulations
   
32.04   Materiality; process for reporting material items
   
32.05   Fuel credit cards
Fees
   
32.20   Copying; facsimile; certification of documents
Specific Funds
   
32.35   Revenue Sharing Cumulative Fund
   
32.36   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
32.37   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
32.38   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
32.39   Sewage Treatment, Storm Sewer, and Disposal Plant Cumulative Fund
   
32.40   Christmas Decorations Fund
   
32.41   Motor Vehicle Fund
Capital Asset Capitalization Policy
   
32.55   Definitions
   
32.56   Land
   
32.57   Machinery and equipment
   
32.58   Buildings
   
32.59   Improvements other than buildings
   
32.60   Recording and accounting
   
32.61   Safeguarding of assets
Spending Limits
   
32.75   Definitions
   
32.76   Designated
   
32.77   Restrictions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 CERTAIN UNUSED FUNDS.
   The Town Council has previously received certain funds because the town
prosecuted at least 50% of all ordinance violations through the county courts.
Not all funds received from the county have been appropriated for law
enforcement expenditures as of the date of the ordinance codified herein. The
Town Council, by ordinance, appropriates the remaining unused funds received
from the county to a non-reverting fund to be used by the Police Department.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 5-14-2012)
§ 32.02 PURCHASE ORDER PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purchase in the amount of $0.01 to $249.99 will require a purchase
order signed/or initialed by the said department supervisor.
   (B)   Purchases in the amount of $250 to $499.99 will require a purchase
order which will need to be signed and/or initialed by the liaison of said
department or another Town Council member if the liaison is unavailable.
   (C)   Purchases in the amount of $500 or more will require Town Council
approval either in a regular or special meeting prior to the purchase.
   (D)   Purchases in the amount of $500 to $5,000 by the Water/Wastewater
Department will require a purchase order which will need to be signed by two
Town Board members and cleared with the Clerk-Treasurer’s office prior to the
purchase.
   (E)   Purchases in the amount of $5,000 or more for the Water/Wastewater
Department will require Town Council approval either in a regular or special
meeting prior to the purchase.
   (F)   All purchases are subject to available funds and should be cleared
with the Clerk-Treasurer’s office prior to the purchase.
   (G)   The purchaser must take measures to assure that sales tax is not added
to any purchase. If sales tax is charged to the town, the user will be
responsible for the removal of the tax or be required to pay such taxes. If the
purchaser has provided personal funds to make the transaction and taxes have
been applied, no reimbursement will be given to the purchaser for the sales
tax.
   (H)   Receipts detailing the items purchased are required as documentation
of all purchases. Charge slips without detailing charges are not considered
valid documentation, and amounts charged will be the responsibility of the
purchaser. Receipts and/or other documentation supporting the charges must be
submitted in a timely fashion to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office and cannot be
paid until documentation has been submitted.
   (I)   Gasoline purchases for the town-owned vehicles and equipment are not
included in this section, but are addressed in §
32.05.
(Ord. 2016-17, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 32.03 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER TO PAY ORDERS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall pay all orders issued by the town when
presented properly endorsed if there is money in the treasury appropriated for
that purpose sufficient to pay the same. If there is not enough money to pay
for such orders, he or she shall write or stamp on the back thereof his or her
name and the date of such presentation and note the same in a register of order
to be provided by him or her for the purpose and such orders shall be entitled
to draw interest at the rate of 6% per annum until there shall be money on hand
sufficient to pay the same.
   (B)   Whenever there shall be money on hand to pay all outstanding orders
which have been endorsed prior to any given date, the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall publish notice of such fact by two by two insertions in some newspaper of
general circulation in the town, stating also in such notice that such
outstanding orders will be redeemed on presentation, and interest shall cease
on such orders from and after the last date of publication.
(Ord. 28, passed 9-21-1905)
§ 32.04 MATERIALITY; PROCESS FOR REPORTING MATERIAL ITEMS.
   (A)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of
town funds or property, or funds or property the town holds in trust, shall be
reported to the Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council President or his or her
designee promptly.
   (B)   It will be the policy of the town to report to the State Board of
Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of
cash in excess of $200, except for inadvertent clerical errors that are
identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the town.
   (C)   It will be the policy of the town to report promptly to the State
Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or
theft of non-cash items in excess of $300, estimated market value, except for
those resulting from inadvertent clerical errors or misplacements that are
identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the town, and except
for the losses from genuine accidents.
   (D)   All elected town officials shall, and all town employees and agents
are directed to, comply with this policy.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 32.05 FUEL CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   WEX credit cards are distributed to the appropriate departments and
are assigned as detailed in the ordinance codified herein.
   (B)   As prescribed by the State Board of Accounts, all receipts will be
surrendered to the Clerk-Treasurer to be attached to billing statements for
payments.
   (C)   Any item(s) purchased that are deemed unauthorized will not be paid by
the town and the person signing for said purchases(s) will be held responsible
for payments; and without a detailed charge receipt the amount charged is
subject to the responsibility of the purchaser. It is the responsibility of
each employee, official, or representative of the town using the card to
document on the charge slip all pertinent information for proper documentation
including, but not limited to, the purchaser’s full name, department, and
odometer reading (when applicable). Receipts and/or other documentation
supporting the charges must be submitted within 24 hours of the purchase, to
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2016-18, passed 12-5-2016)
FEES
§ 32.20 COPYING; FACSIMILE; CERTIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The duly elected governing body of the town adopt the following fees
be established pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(d), from the date of the adoption of
this section forward.
      (1)   The cost of copying and providing documents requested by an
individual, corporation, or entity shall be $0.10 per page.
      (2)   The cost of providing a facsimile of documents requested by an
individual, corporation, or entity shall be $1 per page.
      (3)   The cost of copying and providing non-standard sized documents
requested by an individual, corporation, or entity shall be $0.25 per page.
      (4)   The cost of color copying and providing color documents requested
by an individual, corporation, or entity shall be $0.25 per page.
      (5)   The cost for certification of documents will be $5 per document.
   (B)   The requester will complete the requested form provided. The officer
providing the service shall notify the requester immediately of the fee and the
approximate time frame necessary to prepare the document.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 8-6-2018)
SPECIFIC FUNDS
§ 32.35 REVENUE SHARING CUMULATIVE FUND.
   (A)   A Revenue Sharing Cumulative Fund is created subject to the federal
statutes and regulations governing the sharing of revenue with cities and
towns.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is directed to do all things necessary to
comply with this section including the establishment of a separate bank
account, if the same is required, and the keeping of all necessary records
subject only to the further directions of the Town Council.
(Ord. 72-4, passed - -)
§ 32.36 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is established a Cumulative Improvement Fund, into which all of
the proceeds allotted of the town from the cigarette tax shall be deposited in
lieu of being deposited into the General Fund of the town.
   (B)   The funds deposited shall not revert to the General Fund of the town
and all funds deposited shall and used solely for capital improvements of the
town.
   (C)   The term CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT, as used in this section, shall be the
construction or improvement of any town-owned property but not limited to
streets, thoroughfares, and sewers, but shall not include salaries of any
public officials or employees, directly chargeable to such improvements. The
funds used to retire any general obligation bonds of said town issued for the
purpose of construction of improvements which would qualify for use of such
funds.
(Ord. 65-2, passed 7-7-1965)
§ 32.37 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   A need exists for the establishment of a Cumulative Capital
Development Fund for the following purposes: for all uses as set out in I.C.
36-9-15.5.
   (B)   The Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5. The
proposed fund will not exceed $0.0500 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said
tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2025 payable in 2026.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on April 14, 2025,
and a certified copy of this section will be submitted to the Department of
Local Government Finance of the state as provided by law. The tax rate for this
fund is subject to certification by the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 2016-6A, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 32.38 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   The need exists for the establishment of the LOIT Special Distribution
Fund.
   (B)   The source of the funding for the newly established fund are a special
distribution of Local Option Income Tax pursuant to Senate Enrolled Act 67 and
any other funding source not specifically prohibited by law.
   (C)   Expenditures from this fund are restricted to allowable purpose per
I.C. 6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A) as follows:
      (1)   Engineering, land acquisition, construction, resurfacing,
maintenance, restoration, or rehabilitation of both local and arterial road
project and street systems;
      (2)   The payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily to
finance road, street, or thoroughfare projects;
      (3)   Any local costs required to undertake a recreational or reservoir
road project under I.C. 8-23-5;
      (4)   The purchase, rental, or repair of highway equipment;
      (5)   Providing a match for a grant from the Local Road and Bridge
Matching Grant Fund under I.C. 8-22-2 or an airport authority established under
I.C. 8-22-3-1; and
      (6)   Capital projects for aviation related property or facilities,
including capital projects of a board of aviation commissioners established
under I.C. 8-22-3-2 or an airport authority established under I.C. 8-22-3-1.
    (D)   The fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process as other
municipal funds.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 32.39 SEWAGE TREATMENT, STORM SEWER, AND DISPOSAL PLANT CUMULATIVE FUND.
   (A)   A Sewage Treatment, Storm Sewer, and Disposal Plant Cumulative Fund
for the erection, remodeling, extension, and repairing of sewers, sewage
treatment, and disposal plant, and storm sewers is established pursuant to
Chapter 252 of the Acts of 1967.
   (B)   In order to provide for the Sewage Treatment, Storm Sewer, and
Disposal Plant Cumulative Fund, the town shall levy annually a tax of $0.45 per
$100 valuation on all taxable property within the corporate limits of the town
for 12 consecutive years beginning in 2001 and ending in 2013, and such funds
so received shall be deposited in a special fund to be known as the Town Sewage
Treatment, Storm Sewer, and Disposal Plant Cumulative Fund, said fund to be
used only for the purpose of erection, remodeling, extension, and repairing of
sewers, sewage treatment, disposal plant, and storm sewers.
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 8-7-2000)
§ 32.40 CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council resolves that the need exists for the establishment
of the Christmas Decorations Fund.
   (B)   The sources of funding for the newly established fund are from
donations, fundraisers, and any other funding source not specifically
prohibited by law.
   (C)   Christmas decorations purchased from the fund shall include, but are
not limited to Christmas lights, extension cords, garlands, wreaths, Christmas
trees, tinsel, snowflakes, and stars.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 7-2-2018)
§ 32.41 MOTOR VEHICLE FUND.
   (A)   The “Motor Vehicle Highway Fund” Unallocated (201) is renamed “Motor
Vehicle Highway Fund” (201).
      (1)   The fund will receive 50% of all State Motor Vehicle Highway
distributions received after January 1, 2019.
      (2)   The fund will retain any cash balance, including investment and
interest, as of January 1, 2019.
      (3)   The fund will receive all miscellaneous revenue related to either
the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund or the Motor Vehicle Highway Restricted Fund.
      (4)   The fund will be used for any legal expenditure of the motor
vehicle highway dollars.
   (B)   The sub-fund Motor Vehicle Highway Fund Restricted (203)
(“Restricted”) is created.
      (1)   The Restricted Fund will receive 50% of all State Motor Vehicle
Highway distributions from January 1, 2019.
      (2)   The Restricted Fund will be used solely for construction,
reconstruction, preservation of highway as defined in I.C. 8-14-1-1(4), 8-14-1-
1(5), and 8-14-1-1(7), respectively.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 5-13-2019)
CAPITAL ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 32.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvement of buildings, structures, or other fixed assets;
and equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of
usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition
to the government’s general capital assets.
   FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are needed for the
production or sale of goods or services are termed property, plant and
equipment, or fixed assets. These ASSETS are not held for sale in the ordinary
course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (e.g., land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture, and
fixtures).
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the physical
senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard and
smelled.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 32.56 LAND.
   (A)   The town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost.
   (B)   Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchased outright, as
easements or rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructures are
roads and streets, street lighting systems, bridges, overpasses, sidewalks,
curbs, parking meters, street signs, viaducts, wharfs, and storm water
collection. Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work and opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying,
and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose, including
contractors and/or town workers (salary and benefits), such as demolishing
buildings, excavating, clean-up, and/or inspection.
   (C)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on the date
of transfer plus any associated costs.
   (D)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 32.57 MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT is an apparatus, tool, or conglomeration of
pieces to form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not become a part of a
basic structure or building.
   (B)   (1)   The town will capitalize and tag items with an individual value
equal to or greater than $750.
      (2)   Machinery combined with other machinery to form one unit with a
total value greater than the limit mentioned in division (B)(1) above will be
one unit.
   (C)   Shipping charges, consultant fees, and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery, or set up; including contractors and/or
town workers (salary and benefits), which make such equipment operable for its
intended purpose will be capitalized.
   (D)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment will
be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions.
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $750.
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years.
      (3)   The total costs will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value. Examples include:
         (a)   A work truck being equipped with screens, lights, or radios for
use as a single unit throughout its life expectancy is considered one unit;
         (b)   If police cars are constantly changing light bars or radios to
other vehicles, the town will capitalize each piece of equipment separately, if
it meets the required dollar amount;
         (c)   A department’s computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard, and printer) is
considered one unit;
         (d)   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at fair
market value of the date of transfer with any associated costs; and
         (e)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 32.58 BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments
include roofs, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting, or sprinkler systems, or
any part of the basic building. The department will include the cost of items
designed or purchased exclusively for the building.
   (B)   A department’s new building will be capitalized only if it meets the
following conditions.
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000.
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize the cost only if the result meets all of the following conditions.
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000.
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years.
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
   (D)   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
buildings, architectural, and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest
cost (while under construction), accounting costs if material, and any costs
directly attributed to the construction of a building.
   (E)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value on the
date of transfer and any associated costs.
   (F)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 32.59 IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENTERPRISE FUNDS. The funds used to account for operations that are
financed and operated in a manner similar to private business enterprise where
the intent of the governing body is that the costs (expenses, including
depreciation) of providing goods or services to the general public on a
continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily through user charges; or
where the governing body has decided that periodic determination of revenues
earned, expenses incurred, and/or net income is appropriate for capital
maintenance, public policy, management control, accountability, and other
purposes. The ENTERPRISE FUNDS of the town shall include the municipally-owned
water and wastewater utilities. Operation of these utilities shall require
ENTERPRISE FUND accounting and reporting.
      HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or
services at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment, and most
inventories are common examples of items recognized under the HISTORICAL COST
attribute.
      IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS.
         (a)   Improvements to land for better enjoyment, attached or not
easily removed, and will have a life expectancy of greater than two years.
         (b)   Examples of IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS include walks,
parking areas and drives, golf cart paths, fencing, retaining walls, pools,
outside fountains, planters, underground sprinkler systems, and other similar
items.
         (c)   IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS do not include roads, streets,
or assets that are of value only to the public. For example, Main Street is a
public street with greatest value to the public. Roads or drives upon town-
owned land that provide support to the town’s facilities are assets. A sidewalk
down the road for public enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement and is not
capitalized. However, sidewalks installed upon town-owned land for use by the
public and for the support of our facility are capital assets.
   (B)   Conditions for new improvements. The town will capitalize new
improvements other than buildings only if it meets the following conditions.
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000.
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   Conditions for existing improvements. A department will capitalize
improvements or renovations to existing improvements other than buildings only
if the result meets the following conditions.
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000.
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years.
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 32.60 RECORDING AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The town and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Towns
Accounting Manual. The cost of property, land, and equipment includes all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the town and its departments, the
valuation of assets shall be based on historical cost or where the historical
cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in existence.
   (B)   The town’s municipally-owned utilities shall record acquisition of
capital assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
When an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply recorded as the
amount of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its purchase and
preparation for intended use. Assets may be acquired under a number of other
arrangements including:
      (1)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase price;
      (2)   Purchase on deferred payment contract;
      (3)   Acquisition under capital lease;
      (4)   Acquisition by exchange of non-monetary assets;
      (5)   Acquisition by issuance of securities;
      (6)   Acquisition by self-construction; or
      (7)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
   (C)   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to the
cost to be recorded. For example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has long been recognized as a part of the asset cost.
Reference to an intermediate accounting manual will illustrate the recording of
acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements. For
purposes of recording capital assets of the utilities, the valuation of assets
shall be based on historical cost.
   (D)   In addition, an asset register shall be maintained to provide a
detailed record of the capital assets of the governmental unit.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 32.61 SAFEGUARDING OF ASSETS.
   Accounting controls shall be designed and implemented to provide reasonable
assurances that:
   (A)   Capital expenditures made by the town, its various departments, and
utilities be in accordance with management’s authorization as documented in the
minutes;
   (B)   Transactions of the utilities are to be recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted principles;
   (C)   Adequate detail records are to be maintained to assure accountability
for town and utilities owned assets;
   (D)   Access to assets are to be permitted in accordance with management’s
authorization; and
   (E)   The recorded accountability for assets are to be compared with the
existing assets at least every two years and appropriate action be taken with
respect to any difference.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 5-2-2016)
SPENDING LIMITS
§ 32.75 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The person duly elected as the Clerk-Treasurer for the
town.
   SPENDING LIMIT. The maximum amount of money that may be spent without
express authorization of the Town Council.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The contracted Superintendent for the town.
   TOWN MARSHAL. The contracted Town Marshal for the town.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 32.76 DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer, Town Marshal, and Superintendent are authorized
spending limitations as follows:
      (1)   Clerk-Treasurer: $5,000;
      (2)   Superintendent: $5,000; and
      (3)   Town Marshal: $1,500.
   (B)   The Town Marshal and Superintendent are authorized spending
limitations the approval of two Council members as follows:
      (1)   Superintendent: $5,001 to $10,000; and
      (2)   Town Marshal: $1,501 to $3,000.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 32.77 RESTRICTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter relieves the Clerk-Treasurer, Town Marshal, and
Superintendent for the town of accounting and providing all receipts for
expenditures to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 11-13-2023)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Internal control standards
   
33.02   Personnel policies handbook; adopted by reference
   
33.03   Employee use of town credit cards
   
33.04   Nepotism
   
33.05   Drug-free workplace
   
33.06   Retirement account for water and sewer employees
   
33.07   Voluntary leave transfer program
   
33.08   Personal/sick leave
   
33.09   Clothing allowance
   
33.10   Paid holidays
   
33.11   Special provisions
   
33.12   Checks and pay-dates
   
33.13   Nondiscrimination
§ 33.01 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The internal control standards as established by I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) are
hereby adopted and shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, and shall supersede and repeal existing oral or written personnel
policies and procedures.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 33.02 PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s Personnel Policies Handbook is hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 33.03 EMPLOYEE USE OF TOWN CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   Credit card use is authorized for town business only.
   (B)   The town employee responsible for the card shall maintain strict
possession of said credit card.
   (C)   The town employees and officials may use town credit cards for
purchases related to the performance of town duties when such use is in the
best interest of the town.
   (D)   The credit card may be used for travel expenses, the purchase of parts
and materials, conference fees, and other similar expenses not capable of
otherwise being billed to the town.
   (E)   No personal expenses may be authorized nor may any uses not
specifically related to town business. This specifically precludes any
reimbursement to the town for an employee’s personal use of the town credit
card.
   (F)   Any and all credit cards issued to any employee shall be returned the
Town Clerk-Treasurer when the purpose of the use of the credit card has been
accomplished.
   (G)   The use of credit cards shall follow the criteria set forth by the
State Board of Accounts.
   (H)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to revoke credit cards or purchasing
cards that have been used in violation of town policy.
   (I)   (1)   Payment of credit card and purchasing card bills shall be
subject to the audit requirements of accounts payable vouchers in conformity
with I.C. 5-11-10 and 36-4-8 and the regulations of the State Board of
Accounts. Itemized receipts are [missing material]
      (2)   Payment will not be made on the basis of a credit card or
purchasing card statement. Signed charge slips showing a total charge only,
with no itemization of items purchased, are not acceptable. It is the
responsibility of the employee authorizing the charge to obtain proper itemized
receipts.
   (J)   Credit card and purchasing card charges that do not meet audit
requirements, including charges that include the imposition of sales taxes for
which the town is otherwise exempt, are the responsibility of the employee
authorizing the charge. The town will take all necessary steps to obtain
reimbursement for charges which do not meet audit requirements from the
employee authorizing the charge, including, but not limited to, the garnishment
of the charging employee’s town wages.
   (K)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified immediately if a credit card or
purchasing card is lost or stolen. If a credit card or purchasing card is lost
due to negligence on the part of a town employee, the employee shall be
responsible for any and all expenses incurred on the lost credit card.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 33.04 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012 known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   As of July 1, 2012, the town has a nepotism policy and a contracting
with a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-
20.2 (hereinafter “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “contracting
with a unit by a relative policy”) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town nepotism policy is hereby established and was effective July
1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (D)   The town contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established and was effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21 specifically allow
a unit to adopt requirements that are more stringent or detailed and that more
detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement, or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority, the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation, and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy, may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation, and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of the contracting with unit by a
relative policy, may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (K)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions: a copy of this section in its
entirety will be posted at the Town Hall with all other employee posters. In
doing this, the section is deemed implemented by the town.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21 effective July
1, 2012 are annexed.
   (M)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the town for
public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Res. 2012-1, passed 5-14-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-4-6-11 and 36-5-2-9.4
§ 33.05 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Overview. The town makes a commitment to provide employees a safe
working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment, and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards, and to maintain public
confidence in the town and its employees. Since the town values each employee,
the town offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse
problems.
   (B)   Policy. 
      (1)   The town requires all employees to report for work in a condition
that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with
prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state, or local laws
or to better serve the needs of the town.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   PROHIBITED DRUGS are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
8120) and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11-1308.15) and
prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include but are not limited to marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the State Police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles issued for town business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or town
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for town business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 41 U.S.C. Chapter 81.
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee’s action may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the town’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation. 
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility, and it
is the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol, or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier for disciplinary action. Employees will not be disciplined merely
because of participation in a rehabilitation program or excused from the
disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of this section or
any other town policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline.)
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The town may ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests. Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participating in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
town; and/or
         (c)   When required by law.
      (2)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (3)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
      (4)   Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.06 RETIREMENT ACCOUNT FOR WATER AND SEWER EMPLOYEES.
   There is hereby established a retirement account for employees of the Water
Company and the Town Sewage Treatment Plant System. The Town Council is hereby
authorized to make payment into the account. The account shall be held and
invested by the town, or a designated agent of the town, for purposes of
retirement benefits for employees of these utilities. The Town Council may
provide for the method, manner, and account of contributions to be made by the
utility out of its earnings, reserves, or earned plus, and by employees. This
plan will be a written plan designated as “Retirement Plan for Town Utility
Employees.” The plan will be available for inspection at the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 82-4, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 33.07 VOLUNTARY LEAVE TRANSFER PROGRAM.
   (A)   A Voluntary Leave Transfer Program is created for the donation of
accumulated leave for the medical emergency of either an employee or an
employee’s immediate family member that is likely to require the employee to be
absent from duty for a prolonged period and to result in a substantial loss of
income because of the employee’s lack of available paid leave.
   (B)   Participation in the Voluntary Leave Transfer program is as the sole
discretion of the donor employee.
   (C)   Voluntary transfer of accumulated leave from a donor employee to
another employee will require the donor employee to execute a Voluntary Sick
Leave Donation Agreement at the office of the Town Clerk Treasurer.
(Res. 2022-01, passed 2-7-2022)
§ 33.08 PERSONAL/SICK LEAVE.
   Full-time employees shall be allowed 12 days per calendar year, which
calculates as one day per month. Each employee is limited to an accumulation of
a maximum of 30 days.
(Res. 2022-01, passed 2-7-2022; Ord. 2023-09, passed 12-21-2023; Ord. 2024-04,
passed 12-9-2024)
§ 33.09 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   The town will provide each full-time Street, Water, Wastewater Department
employee up to $500 for uniforms annually, as overseen by the department head.
(Res. 2022-01, passed 2-7-2022; Ord. 2023-09, passed 12-21-2023; Ord. 2024-04,
passed 12-9-2024)
§ 33.10 PAID HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The town will grant paid holiday time off to all full-time employees,
excluding full-time probationary employees. Holiday pay will be based on the
employee’s normal workday pay. In order to be paid for holidays described
above, an employee shall have worked as a full-time employee on his or her
scheduled workday immediately preceding the holiday and his or her scheduled
workday immediately following the holiday, unless excused for vacation leave or
compensatory time. An employee’s termination date shall not be extended to
include payment for any additional holiday pay. An employee’s termination date
shall be the last day actually worked. Police Department working holidays will
be required to schedule a day off the next week. No stacking of holidays and
using at one time. Part-time employees are not eligible for holiday pay.
    (B)   Paid holidays include New Year’s Day, Presidents Day, Good Friday,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Martin Luther King Day, Veterans
Day, Thanksgiving Day (two days), and Christmas Day (two days).
(Res. 2022-01, passed 2-7-2022; Ord. 2023-09, passed 12-21-2023; Ord. 2024-04,
passed 12-9-2024)
§ 33.11 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   A Clerk-Treasurer, who possesses professional certifications from the State
League of Municipal Clerk Treasurers, International Institute of Municipal
Clerks, Association of Public Treasurers, or Government Finance Officers
Association shall be eligible for a salary base-rate increase of $40 per pay
period for up to two such certifications. Additional increases will not be
awarded for more than two certifications and said certifications shall be
maintained in active, good standing. A Clerk-Treasurer, who possesses a
bachelor’s degree and/or master’s degree shall be eligible for a salary base-
rate increase of $200 per pay period for up to two such degrees. Additional
increases will not be awarded for more than two educational degrees or for any
other educational degrees not specifically set forth herein.
(Res. 2022-01, passed 2-7-2022; Ord. 2023-09, passed 12-21-2023; Ord. 2024-04,
passed 12-9-2024)
§ 33.12 CHECKS AND PAY-DATES.
   All employees are paid according to pay schedules adopted by the Town
Council. In the event that a regularly scheduled payday falls on a day off
(e.g., a holiday), employees will be paid on the last day of work before the
regularly scheduled payday. If being paid with a check, the check will not be
released until the pay-date. Direct deposits will be deposited according to the
employee’s bank’s procedures.
(Res. 2022-01, passed 2-7-2022; Ord. 2023-09, passed 12-21-2023; Ord. 2024-04,
passed 12-9-2024)
§ 33.13 NONDISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to Title VI of the American with Disabilities Act as amended
(ADA of 1990, 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.) and § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973, as amended (§ 504) (29 U.S.C. § 794) and implementing regulations found
in 28 C.F.R. § 35 and 49 C.F.R. § 27, the town does not discriminate against
qualified individuals with disabilities in its policies, or in the admission
of, access to, treatment of, or employment in its programs, services, or
activities.
   (B)   Upon request, the town will use its best efforts to provide
appropriate auxiliary aids and services to facilitate effective communication
for qualified persons with disabilities so that they have an equal opportunity
to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level
of achievement as provided to others. These efforts may include providing
qualified sign language interpreters, Brailled documents, and other products
and services to make communications accessible to individuals with speech,
hearing, and vision impairments.
   (C)   Upon request, the town will make reasonable modifications to policies
and programs to ensure that qualified individuals with disabilities have an
equal opportunity to enjoy its programs and activities. The town is not
required to take any action that would fundamentally alter the nature of its
programs or services or impose an undue financial or administrative burden.
   (D)   The town will not place a surcharge on qualified individuals with
disabilities to cover the cost of providing auxiliary aids, services, or
reasonable modifications of policies.
   (E)   Inquiries or complaints regarding § 504 of the ADA should be directed
to the town’s ADA Coordinator. The town will investigate all complaints in
accordance with the town’s Title VI complaint process, which is also used for
ADA complaints, and promptly take any remedial action deemed necessary to
provide an equitable resolution to overcome the effects of a substantiated
violation.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-4-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Pick-up charge
   
50.02   Ashes and other material
   
50.03   Regulation of trash totes
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 PICK-UP CHARGE.
   The charge for collection of trash, solid waste, and refuse is $15 per
residence, per month.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 5-1-2006; Ord. 7-2013, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 50.02 ASHES AND OTHER MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to suffer, permit, or allow
anyone in his, her, or their care, custody, employ, or control to throw, place,
or deposit any manure, ashes, waste paper, advertisements, handbills, slops,
decayed animals or vegetables, or such other matter liable to decay and become
noisome or unhealthy; or any refuse of any kind or character whatsoever upon or
in any sidewalk, crossing, street, alley, gutter, or common area in the town.
Nothing in this section shall prevent advertisements or handbills being placed
in houses, under doors, or being handed to individuals.
(Ord. 19, passed 1-23-1905) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 REGULATION OF TRASH TOTES.
   (A)   Town residents will be responsible for placing trash collection totes
curbside no earlier than 6:00 p.m. the night before the scheduled trash
collection day.
   (B)   Town residents will be responsible for removing from curbside all
trash tote containers not later than 6:00 p.m. of the day after the scheduled
trash collection day.
   (C)   Totes shall not be stored on any public street, public sidewalk, or
areas between the sidewalk and a public street outside of the normal trash
collection times as outlined in this section.
   (D)   Town residents that are disabled or the elderly can contact the Town
Hall for assistance in complying with this section.
   (E)   If residents are unable to remove their trash tote from the sidewalk
or street due to heavy snowfall, no violation will be assessed, permitting that
as soon as the resident is able, the tote will be removed according to this
section.
   (F)   Upon the passage of this section by the Town Council, town residents
will be given a 30-day period to come into compliance. A 30-day grace period
will occur upon the initial warning only.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 8-4-2014; Ord. 2016-5, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
50.02 shall upon conviction be fined in any sum not less than $1 nor more than
$50 with costs of prosecution added.
   (C)   Any person violating §
50.03, after the 30-day period for the initial warning, a citation shall be
issued which will include a fine payable at the Town Hall within ten business
days of not more than $25. Any violations found will be handled in the
following manner:
      (1)   First offense: letter of violation;
      (2)   Second offense:$25;
      (3)   Third offense: tote removal and $25 dollar fine; and
      (4)   Fourth offense: permanent removal of tote.
(Ord. 19, passed 1-23-1905; Ord. 2016-5, passed 3-7-2016)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Rates
   
51.02   Potable water wells
   
51.03   Service; application
Water Shortages
   
51.15   Application
   
51.16   Declaration of need
   
51.17   Conservation measures
   
51.18   Voluntary conservation
   
51.19   Mandatory conservation
   
51.20   Rationing
   
51.21   Exceptions
   
51.22   Notice
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 RATES.
   (A)   Calculation of utility receipts tax (“URT”) percentage to reduce rates
by calendar year ended December 31, 2021.
 
Total utility receipts tax paid                $4,987
Divided by: customer sales                     388,421
Utility receipts percentage to reduce rates by 1.28%
 
   (B)   Schedule of current and proposed rates and charges.
 Current Rates Proposed Rates
                                                            Current    Proposed
                                                             Rates      Rates
Charge for meter testing (customer request)
   First time in 12-month period                          No charge  No charge
   Subsequent tests in 12-month period where meter tested $40        $40
accurate
Charge for new meter at customer request                     Cost of    Cost of
                                                             new meter  new meter
Minimum charge (per user, per monthly bill
   3/4” meter                                           $37.77     $37.29
   1” meter                                             $74.55     $73.60
   1 and ½” meter                                      $101.12    $99.83
   2” meter                                             $197.47    $194.94
   3” meter                                             $357.58    $353
Monthly consumption (per 1,000 gallons)
   First 2,700 gallons                                    $14        $13.82
   Next 5,700 gallons                                     $13.08     $12.91
   Next 8,300 gallons                                     $12.19     $12.03
   Next 17,300 gallons                                    $11.41     $11.26
   Over 34,000 gallons                                    $10.52     $10.39
Public fire protection (per hydrant, per annum)              $432.48    $432.48
Service charge for turn-ons
   Cost to turn on water service                          $25        $25
Tap charges (10% of the first $3 and 3% of balance)
   5/8” to 3/4” connections                           $900       $900
                                                             Actual     Actual
   Other size connections                                 cost of    cost of
                                                             the        the
                                                             connection connection
Note to table: Proposed rates are reduced by percentage calculated in division (A)
above, excluding hydrants, tap fees, and sprinklers, as they are not subject to
URT
 
(Ord. 2006-03, passed 5-1-2006; Ord. 4-2013, passed 10-7-2013; Ord. 2020-05,
passed 12-7-2020; Ord. 2022-02, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 51.02 POTABLE WATER WELLS.
   (A)   The term WATER WELL means any system used to pump, access, or
otherwise bring to the surface underground sources of water existing under,
upon, or within the confines of any premises located within the corporate
limits of the town, for the purpose of human consumption or other use, and
which system or device is installed after the effective date of this section.
   (B)   The installation of any private water well upon any premises which is
located within the town is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   No person, including any corporation, partnership, or association,
shall drill or otherwise install any water well in violation of this section.
(Ord. 2008-5, passed 9-8-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 SERVICE; APPLICATION.
   The Town Council has determined use regulations within the waterworks system
in the following manner:
   (A)   Notices.
      (1)   Services are invoiced on a calendar month basis. All invoices are
due monthly. Invoices are due on the fifteenth day of each month. Any invoice
not paid on or after the sixteenth day of the month will include a delinquency
charge.
      (2)   Past due invoice reminders are distributed on the sixteenth day of
each month, unless the sixteenth day is on a weekend or holiday. Accounts that
are more than 30 days past due are subject to being disconnected. No reminders,
“door knockers,” or any other contact will be made by the utility prior to
taking any action. Any account upon which a dishonored check has been received
is considered to be unpaid unless and until the dishonored check and all
charges associated therewith have been fully paid.
   (B)   Application for service and responsibility for payment of invoices.
Where the premises are occupied by a tenant, utility requires that the
application for service be in either the tenant or property owner’s name, who
shall be responsible for the payment of all invoices. The invoice may be mailed
directly to the owner of the account. The current property owner is responsible
for the payment of all unpaid utility invoices existing at the time he or she
became owner.
   (C)   Application for temporary service. For temporary service, utility’s
general rules and regulations shall apply. Utility reserves the right to
require that applications for temporary service be in the name of the property
owner, who shall be subject to the utility’s applicable “turn-on” and “turn-
off” for each temporary service.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 2-22-2023)
WATER SHORTAGES
§ 51.15 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all persons, firms, partnerships,
corporations, company, or organizations connected to the town public water
system or using water therefrom (hereafter, “users”).
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 8-4-2008)
§ 51.16 DECLARATION OF NEED.
   Upon determining that the public water system is in a condition of water
shortage, the Town Council shall declare a water conservation emergency and
establish the appropriate measures and the duration thereof.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 8-4-2008)
§ 51.17 CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   (A)   Practices that conserve water should be used at all times.
   (B)   Examples of conservation measures include:
      (1)   Judiciously sprinkling, watering, or irrigating shrubbery, trees,
grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, or any other
vegetation; eliminating wasteful sprinkling of impervious surfaces, such as
streets and sidewalks;
      (2)   Limiting water use while washing trucks, trailers, mobile homes,
railroad cars, or any other type of mobile equipment;
      (3)   Limiting water use while cleaning sidewalks, driveways, paved
areas, or other outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Repairing or replacing leaking water fixtures and service lines;
      (5)   Using appliances such as clothes washers and dishwashers only when
they are full;
      (6)   Turning off the water while brushing teeth or shaving;
      (7)   Using a higher lawnmower setting to provide natural ground shade
and promote the soil’s water retention;
      (8)   Washing cars with a bucket of soapy water and using a nozzle to
stop the flow of water from the hose between rinsing; and
      (9)   Covering swimming pools when not in use to reduce evaporation.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 8-4-2008)
§ 51.18 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   During moderate water shortages, users shall be requested to reduce water
consumption by practicing voluntary conservation. The Town Council shall
identify reasonable and meaningful conservation techniques and provide such
information to users. The Town Council may also implement conservation pricing
and prohibitions to encourage water conservation.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 8-4-2008)
§ 51.19 MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   During severe water shortages, users shall be prohibited from selected water
uses subject to reasonable terms, times, and conditions as the Town Council
shall adopt and append.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 RATIONING.
   In addition to mandatory conservation measures, users shall be limited
during extreme water shortage to water use by the following schedule.
   (A)   Residential use shall be limited to ____ gallons per residential unit
per day.
   (B)   Business, commercial, agricultural, and industrial users shall be
limited to the volume of water deemed to be essential.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 EXCEPTIONS.
   The town shall establish rationing exemptions necessary to provide for the
maintenance of adequate health, safety, and sanitary conditions.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 8-4-2008)
§ 51.22 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of the need for voluntary conservation measures shall be issued
in a local newspaper of general circulation or other means such as radio and
television as deemed appropriate by the Town Council. Notice shall be effective
upon issuance.
   (B)   Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be by first class
United States mail, or by other door to door distribution to each current user,
and by electronic and print media. Notice shall be deemed effective at the
conclusion of door to door distribution or at noon of the third day after
depositing notice in the United States mail.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 8-4-2008)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
51.02 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. Each day that such
person continues to operate any such water well which has been installed in
violation of the terms of §
51.02 is deemed to be a continuing and separate violation.
   (C)   (1)   Any invoice described in §
51.03 unpaid by the fifteenth day of the month following the distribution of a
past due invoice reminder is subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   Water: 10% of the first $3 and 3% of the balance;
         (b)   Wastewater: 10% of the balance;
         (c)   Sanitation: 10% of the balance; and
         (d)   Stormwater: 10% of the balance.
      (2)   Penalties are applied the sixteenth day of each month.
      (3)   Failure to make payments as required, including late charges, may
result in legal collection efforts including lawsuit and liens upon real
property as permitted by applicable law.
      (4)   The following penalties will be applied for any waterworks service
required:
         (a)   Voluntary service shut off: $3;
         (b)   Voluntary service turn-on: $3; and
         (c)   Reconnect fee: $40.
   (D)   Any user who violates §§
51.19 or
51.20 may be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 (see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)
(10)(B)). Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense. In
addition to, or in the alternative to, a fine, water service may be terminated
for any user who violates §§
51.18 or
51.19.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 8-4-2008; Ord. 2008-5, passed 9-8-2008; Ord. 2023-03,
passed 2-22-2023)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Bylaws and regulations of the Town Council
   
52.003   Damaging and defacing sewerage works property
   
52.004   Right of entry of Superintendent and Inspector to any premises
   
52.005   Failure to comply with the terms of chapter
   
52.006   Falsifying of information
   
52.007   Biennial review
   
52.008   Environmental Protection Agency Region V approval
   
52.009   Right to connect
Connection to Sewerage System
   
52.020   Privies, septic tanks, cesspools, and the like
   
52.021   When connection is required
   
52.022   Construction of building or house lateral sewers
   
52.023   Extensions outside of town
   
52.024   Prohibition of discharge to natural outlets
   
52.025   Right to prohibit new connections
Private Wells
   
52.040   Registration
   
52.041   Metering
   
52.042   Inspection
   
52.043   Well digging
Wastewater Admissibility
   
52.055   Major contributor permits
   
52.056   Major contributor permit applications; fees
   
52.057   Surveillance of major contributors
   
52.058   Monitoring of major contributors
   
52.059   Limitations on point of discharge
   
52.060   Licensed commercial or industrial waste hauling
   
52.061   Special agreements
   
52.062   Prohibitions on discharge
   
52.063   Prohibition of unpolluted waters
   
52.064   Limitations on radioactive wastes
   
52.065   Limitations on use of garbage grinders
   
52.066   Limitations on wastewater strength
   
52.067   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
52.068   Liability for maintenance of pretreatment and other equipment
   
52.069   Right to reject waste
Charges and Fees
   
52.080   Persons subject to fees and sewer charges
   
52.081   Effective date; extension to additional property
   
52.082   Rate basis
   
52.083   Schedule of meter reading
   
52.084   Procedure when water is obtained partially or wholly from sources
other than the town water works
   
52.085   Portion of water not entering sewerage system
   
52.086   Billing procedure generally
   
52.087   Tenants may be billed; right of owners to examine records
   
52.088   Liability of town for charges
   
52.089   Surcharge based on flow and concentration of wastewater
   
52.090   Rates of surcharge
   
52.091   Sewer charges
   
52.092   Delinquent accounts
   
52.093   Outside meter for sewer discount
   
52.094   Stormwater utility fee
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
otherwise defined in this chapter, terms shall be as adopted in the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association, and American Water Works
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation and as set forth in 40
C.F.R. part 136. Waste constituents and characteristics shall be measured by
Standard Methods unless a mutually agreed upon acceptable alternative method is
adopted, or in such other method established by state or federal regulatory
agencies. Monitoring and metering will be carried out by customarily accepted
methods.
   BENEFICIAL USES. These include, but are not limited to, domestic, municipal,
agricultural, and industrial use, power generation, recreation, aesthetic
enjoyment, navigation, and the preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife,
and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses, both tangible or
intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations of BOD shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods, therein and
conventionally referred to as BOD5.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil pipes, waste pipes, and other drainage
pipes inside a building and conveys it to a point outside of the building.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measure of the oxygen equivalent of that
portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface, or ground water runoff
in addition to sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastewater having or containing measurable
biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, fecal coliform bacteria, or
additional pollutants identified or defined in the town’s National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit or by the state or Town Council.
   CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF WASTEWATER. The chemical, physical,
bacteriological, and radiological properties, including volume, flow rate, and
such other properties which serve to define, classify, or measure the contents,
quality, quantity, and strength of wastewater.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works to fund
debt service on outstanding revenue bonds and current capital costs.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, or dispensing of
food or from the handling, storage, or sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Any pollutants which are not compatible pollutants.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow into or enter the sewerage system or ground from
an industrial, manufacturing, commercial, or business process or from the
development, recovery, or processing of any natural resource carried on by any
person and shall further mean any waste from an industrial user, but not
including sanitary sewage or stormwater.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering the sewerage system directly or via private
sewers, building drains, and building sewers connected therewith, from the
ground, through such means as, but not limited to, defective pipe joints,
connections, or manhole walls.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater entering the sewerage system from
sources such as leader’s, cellar, yard area, and foundation drains, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole areas, cross-connections between storm and
sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, stormwater, surface runoff, and
street wastewater or drainage.
   INSPECTOR. A person authorized by the Town Council or the Superintendent to
perform inspection duties assigned to him or her by the Council or
Superintendent.
   LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the sewerage system
or other place of disposal.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A user discharging or introducing into the sewerage
system which has a flow of more than 50,000 gallons per average workday; a
toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in § 307 U.S. Pub. Law No. 92-500
as now adopted or as hereafter amended; a flow or pollutant construction as now
or hereafter defined or identified as a problem pollutant or flow by applicable
state or federal regulations or by the Town Council; an effluent of significant
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributors, on the
wastewater treatment plant or the quality of its effluent; or any substance
unusual or unique in quality or quantity requiring special attention or
processing in order to effect proper wastewater treatment.
   MAY. The act referred to is both permissible and approved.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage discharged by residential users.
   NPDES PERMIT. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit now
or hereafter held by the town and setting forth conditions for the discharge of
any pollutants or combination of pollutants.
   NUISANCE. Any substance which is injurious to health or offensive to the
senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with
the comfort or enjoyment of life or property.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenses related directly to the operating
and maintaining including replacement of the sewage works as identified in the
Uniform System of Accounts for Wastewater Utilities or as prescribed by the
State Board of Accounts under the general headings, Plant Operation and
Maintenance, Sewer Operation and Maintenance, Customer Accounts, Administrative
and General, Insurance and Taxes.
   pH. The conventional scientific measure of the degree of acidity or
alkalinity.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of water by waste, contaminants, or
pollutants to a degree which renders such water unfit for beneficial uses.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned by the town.
   RECEIVING SEWER SYSTEM. The Town Municipal Sewer System.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
replacement.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage such as, and having the characteristics of, domestic
sewage from dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, free from storm and surface water and
industrial wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial waste waters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial
plants, and institutions.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying sewage or other liquids, and
solids suspended or entrained therein.
   SEWER CHARGES. The total of the user charge and the debt service charge.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The network of publicly owned sewers and appurtenances used
for collection, transporting, and pumping wastewater to the wastewater
treatment plant, and the wastewater treatment plant itself.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally
prevailing in the sewerage system, with no particle being greater than one-half
inch in dimension.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only stormwaters, surface runoff,
street wash waters, and drainage.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent, subject to the control of the Town
Council in all matters, of the Sewer Department.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for sewerage services in addition to the basic sewer
charge. This charge is assessed users whose sewage is of such a nature that it
imposes upon the sewage works a burden greater than that covered by the basic
user charge.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
   USER. A person who introduces into or discharges into, including both the
owner and occupant of real estate from which is introduced or discharged into
the sewerage system any substance whatsoever.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works, or that portion
of the ad valorem taxes paid by a user, for the user’s proportionate share of
the cost of operation and maintenance (including) replacement of such works.
   USER CLASSES.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Transit lodging, retail, and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in providing merchandise for personal,
household, or industrial consumption and for rendering services to others.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. A user engaged in legislative, judicial, or
administrative activities of federal, state, and local governments, such as
court houses, police, and fire stations, town halls, and similar GOVERNMENTAL
USERS.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who discharges industrial wastes.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. A publicly or privately owned school, hospital,
nursing home, prison, or other similar institution whose wastes are segregated
domestic wastes.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user who introduces only normal domestic sewage
from a single-family or multi-family dwelling into the sewerage system.
   WASTE. Sanitary sewage and any and all other waste substances, liquid,
solid, gaseous, or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human
or animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing, or
industrial operation of whatever nature, including such WASTE placed within
containers of whatever nature prior to, and for purposes of, disposal.
   WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
by the town for treatment and disposing of sewage, sludge, and other sewage
constituents and products.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.002 BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council may adopt and enforce such reasonable regulations not in
conflict herewith as it may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and
efficient management of the town’s sewerage system and wastewater treatment
plant and for the construction and use of building (or house) lateral sewers
and connections to the sewerage system, which regulations may include
limitations of or prohibition of introduction of or infiltration by stormwater,
surface water, and ground water into the sewerage system.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.003 DAMAGING AND DEFACING SEWERAGE WORKS PROPERTY.
   A person shall not maliciously, willfully, or recklessly break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the town’s sewerage system.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF SUPERINTENDENT AND INSPECTOR TO ANY PREMISES.
   The Superintendent, Inspector, or other duly authorized employee of the
town, upon reasonable notice to any person who is owner, tenant, or occupant of
any real estate, is empowered to enter, upon presentation of proper
credentials, all premises for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measuring, sampling, and testing water, sewage, and industrial waste.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.005 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE TERMS OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Accidental discharges.
      (1)   A user shall notify the Superintendent immediately upon
accidentally discharging chemicals, corrosive substances, or anything
deleterious to the sewerage system or treatment process, or wastewaters in
violation of this chapter, to enable countermeasures to be taken by the town to
minimize damage to the sewerage system, treatment processes, and the receiving
stream.
      (2)   This notification shall be followed within seven days of the date
of occurrence by a detailed written report, signed by the user, describing the
causes of the accidental discharge and the measures being taken to prevent
future similar occurrences.
      (3)   Such notification will not relieve users of liability for any
expense, loss, or damage to the sewerage system, wastewater treatment plant, or
treatment process, or any fines or penalties imposed by the Town Council, which
expense, loss, or damage shall be paid for by the user.
      (4)   A notice shall be furnished and permanently posted advising
designated responsible employees to call the Superintendent in case of
accidental discharge in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Continued failure to meet wastewater admissibility requirements or the
terms of major contributor permits. The Council shall have the following
methods of recourse in the event of repeated or willful failure by a user to
meet the wastewater admissibility requirements of this chapter. In addition,
the town shall have and the Council may exercise all other legally available
remedies.
      (1)   Submission of time schedule. When the town finds that a discharge
of wastewater has been taking place in violation of the admissibility
requirements prescribed in §§
52.055 through
52.069 or the provisions of a major contributor permit, the town may require
the user to submit for approval a detailed time schedule of specific actions,
acceptable to the Town Council, which the user shall take in order to prevent
or correct a violation of requirements.
      (2)   Issuance of cease and desist orders. When the town finds that a
discharge of wastewater has taken place or is likely to take place in violation
of the admissibility requirements of §§
52.055 through
52.069, or of a major contributor permit, the Town Council may issue an order
to cease and desist, and may direct that the user not complying with such
requirements comply forthwith, comply with a time schedule set forth by the
Town Council, or take appropriate remedial or preventive action.
      (3)   Injunction. When the town finds that a discharge of wastewater is
in violation of the admissibility requirements of §§
52.055 through
52.069 or the provisions of a major contributor permit, or otherwise causes or
threatens to cause a condition of pollution or nuisance, the Town Council, on
behalf of the town, may petition any court of proper jurisdiction for the
issuance of a preliminary or permanent injunction or both, as may be
appropriate, in restraining the continuance of such a discharge.
      (4)   Termination of service. The town may revoke any major contributor
permit or terminate or cause to be terminated wastewater service in whole or in
part if a violation of any provisions of this chapter or the major contributor
permit is found to exist, or if a discharge causes or threatens to cause a
condition of pollution or nuisance as defined in this chapter, or causes the
town to violate the terms of its NPDES permit or any state or federal law or
regulation.
      (5)   Administrative appeals.
         (a)   Any user affected by any decision, action, or determination,
including cease and desist orders, made by the Superintendent, interpreting or
implementing the provisions of this chapter, any permit issued herein, or any
action, decision, or regulation of the Town Council adopted pursuant hereto,
may file with the Town Council a written request for review and reconsideration
within ten days of such a decision, action, or determination, setting forth in
detail the facts supporting the user’s request for reconsideration.
         (b)   The appeal shall, if reasonably possible, be heard by the Town
Council within 30 days from the date of filing. The Superintendent’s decision,
action, or determination shall remain in effect during such period of
reconsideration, unless the Town Council otherwise determines on request of the
user.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.006 FALSIFYING OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   A person shall not knowingly make or submit to the town a false
statement, representation, record, report, plan, or other document required to
be filed hereunder or under a duly adopted regulation of the Town Council, or
voluntarily filed with the intent that the town rely thereon, or falsify,
tamper with, or knowingly render inaccurate any monitoring, testing, measuring,
or timing device required or installed under these regulations.
   (B)   A person shall not, during any monitoring or surveillance period,
alter industrial processes or other activities for the purpose of rendering
samples drawn or measurements taken during said monitoring or surveillance
unrepresentative or uncharacteristic of normal operations, flows, or
concentrations of pollutants.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.007 BIENNIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   The Town Council shall review, not less often than every two years,
the wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the total costs of
operation and maintenance of the treatment works, and its approved user charge
system.
   (B)   The Town Council shall revise the charges for users or user classes to
accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement of the treatment works);
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly; and
      (4)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay principal and interest on bonds
payable and other obligations of the sewage works in order to meet the
requirements of the sewage works bond ordinance of any bonds outstanding.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.008 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY REGION V APPROVAL.
   Approval of this chapter by the Regional Administrator of Region V of the
Environmental Protection Agency is evidenced by the authorization received by
the town on September 22, 1980, which authorization is reproduced herein.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.009 RIGHT TO CONNECT.
   (A)   All property owners within one mile of the town are granted the right
to connect to the town sewer system.
   (B)   The cost to connect to the town sewer system shall be paid solely by
the property owner requesting access.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 8-4-2008)
CONNECTION TO SEWERAGE SYSTEM
§ 52.020 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS, CESSPOOLS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by the Town Council, the town, or the
state or any of its agencies, a person shall not construct or maintain a privy,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater; except that existing septic tank systems and fields may be repaired
and maintained in accord with applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The owner of all residential, commercial, and industrial or other
buildings or property used for human occupancy, employment, or recreation
situated within the town is hereby required to install suitable toilet
facilities therein and to connect such facilities to a public sewer or a
private sewer facility. Such connection shall be made to a public sewer except
where there is no public sewer within 300 feet of such owner’s residence or
business, as measured from the sewer line and the owner’s residence or
business. It shall be a violation of this chapter not to make the connection
required herein within 90 days after written notice to do so has been given to
the owner by the town. Such notice may be given by delivery or be certified
mail to the owner’s last known address.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021 WHEN CONNECTION IS REQUIRED.
   Any person constructing a new house or other building for occupancy,
employment, recreation, industrial, or commercial activity within the town and
abutting on any street, alley, or easement in which there is now located a
public sanitary or combined sewer, or along or across which there is access to
such a sewer, must connect to such sewer in accord with applicable ordinances
and regulations, and shall not discharge sewage elsewhere than into the
sewerage system.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.022 CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDING OR HOUSE LATERAL SEWERS.
   The size, shape, alignment, materials, or construction of a building (or
house) lateral sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing the
pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench shall conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of the town.
   (A)   Determining major contributors. Each commercial and industrial user
shall supply the town with information about expected wastewater constituents
and characteristics to be used in determining whether or not the user will be a
major contributor.
   (B)   Separate sewer requirements. A separate and independent building (or
house) lateral sewer shall be provided for every building (or house); except
where one building (or house) stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
(or house) through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway. In such cases,
the building (or house) lateral sewer from the front building (or house) may be
extended to the rear building (or house) and the whole considered as one
building (or house) lateral sewer.
   (C)   Use of old building (or house) lateral sewer for a new building (or
house). Old building (or house) lateral sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings (or houses) only when they are determined, upon examination and
test by the Inspector, to meet all requirements of this chapter. Whenever
reasonably possible, the building (or house) lateral sewer shall be brought to
the building (or house) at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings (or houses) in which any building (or house) drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the appropriate public sewer, wastewater carried by such
building (or house) drain shall be lifted by an appropriate means and
discharged to the building (or house) lateral sewer.
   (D)   Connection of downspouts, drains, and the like. No person shall
hereafter connect, reconnect, or have roof downspouts, footing drains, areaway
drains, driveways, parking lots, or other sources of surface, runoff, or
groundwater, to a building (or house) lateral sewer or building (or house)
drain which is in turn connected directly or indirectly to the sewerage system.
   (E)   Inspection; supervision of connection. The applicant for the building
(or house) lateral sewer permit shall notify the Town Council or its designated
representative when a building (or house) lateral sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the sewerage system. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Inspector or his or her representative using materials and
techniques conforming to the requirements of the Town Council. The applicant
shall give notice before the burial or covering of the lateral sewer and shall
not cover or bury the sewer until the inspection is completed and the
connection approved.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.023 EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   A person shall not directly or indirectly make any connections with or
openings into the sewerage system for the purpose of serving any areas outside
the corporate boundaries of the town without first securing a specific
resolution of the Town Council describing the real estate and property to be
served and authorizing such connection.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.024 PROHIBITION OF DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the town or
in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any sewage or other polluted
waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.025 RIGHT TO PROHIBIT NEW CONNECTIONS.
   The town shall have the right to prohibit new connections when the excess
capacity of the sewerage system is deemed insufficient by the Town Council to
accommodate the expected flow, BOD, and/or suspended solids loading from the
prospective sewer user.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
PRIVATE WELLS
§ 52.040 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of real estate within the corporate limits of
the town, or real estate from which there is a lateral sewer or other means or
path of direct or indirect flow into the sewerage system, shall, on a form
provided by the Town Council, report the existence of such well to the
Superintendent.
   (B)   The information furnished on such form by the owner or occupant shall
include, among other items, the name of the owner and occupant of such real
estate, the location on said real estate of such well, the size of the well
pipe, the size, (voltage, amperage, and horsepower where ascertainable) of the
well pump motor, and the purpose for which the well water is used by the owner,
occupant, or others.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.041 METERING.
   The Town Council shall determine by any reasonable means, including, but not
limited to, the use of water meters and timing devices, the flow of such well
in order to determine the amount of sewage entering the sewerage system. The
owner or occupant of such real estate shall pay for such metering device, which
shall be of a type approved by the Town Council, and which shall remain the
property of the owner but shall be under the exclusive control of the Town
Council and shall not under any circumstances be tampered with by the owner,
occupant, or any other person. In the case of wells for household use, only the
Town Council may, in lieu of metering or timing the use of the well, provide
for use of reasonable estimates regarding water volume.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.042 INSPECTION.
   The Town Council may direct the Superintendent, Inspector, or any other
employee to enter upon private property for the purpose of inspecting to
determine the existence of private wells, to oversee or to direct the
installation of metering or timing devices, and to read such meters and
devices.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.043 WELL DIGGING.
   A person shall not hereafter dig or drive a well within the town limits
without first making application therefor to the Superintendent, which
application shall be on a form approved by the Town Council and shall show all
pertinent data regarding size and flow. The application shall be signed by both
the installer of the well (the contractor or other person doing the work) and
the owner or his or her agent (other than the installer). The failure to file
such an application shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
WASTEWATER ADMISSIBILITY
§ 52.055 MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Any industrial user and any other user on demand of the Town Council
shall provide the town with sufficient information to determine if he or she is
a major contributor. Any user determined to be a major contributor shall be
required to obtain a permit which describes the wastewater constituents and
characteristics allowed and which sets forth the applicable surveillance
schedule and the monitoring requirements the user shall be subject to in order
to discharge into the sewerage system. A major contributor permit shall be
valid for four years unless processing changes are made that, in the opinion of
the Superintendent or Town Council, alter the wastewater constituents and
characteristics significantly. In the event of such a change, a new application
shall be filed accordingly. A permit may be renewed without reapplication at
the end of four years at the discretion of the town.
   (B)   Nothing in a major contributor permit shall constitute an exception to
the prohibitions and limitations on wastewater admissibility as set forth
herein. Major contributors are subject to all applicable fees, rates, and
charges set forth in §§
52.080 through
52.093.
   (C)   A user holding an NPDES permit from the state is prima facie entitled
to a major contributor permit from the town. The holder of any NPDES permit
from the state shall file with the Superintendent a copy of each report or
application such permit holder files with the state, such copy to be filed with
the town not later than three business days after the filing with the
appropriate state authority. Each user who applies to the state for an NPDES
permit shall similarly file a copy of such application and all supporting
documents with the town within said three-day time period.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.056 MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR PERMIT APPLICATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Major contributors shall make application for the proposed
discharge on a form provided by the town.
      (2)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, studies, or other information considered pertinent by the Town
Council.
   (B)   Fees. Permit fees for major contributors shall be as follows:
      (1)   Industries connected to sewerage works prior to the effective date
of this chapter: $20; and
      (2)   Industries connected to sewerage works after the effective date of
this chapter: $100.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.057 SURVEILLANCE OF MAJOR CONTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   Classes of major contributors. To establish a feasible surveillance
schedule, the following classes of major contributors are formed:
 
Class Qualification                              Minimum Surveillance Schedule
A     Flow of 100,000 gallons per day (0.1 MGD)  Semiannually
      or more per average workday
      Flow from 0.04 MGD to 0.1 MGD per average
B     work day or discharge with constituents or Annually
      characteristics that result in a major
      contributor classification
 
   (B)   Surveillance period. The surveillance period will normally be for a
period of seven consecutive days, but can be of longer or shorter duration at
the discretion of the Town Council or Superintendent. In cases where the
surveillance period extends for a greater number of consecutive days than
seven, the town shall have the prerogative of selecting the seven consecutive
days of its choice for establishing rates and charges as provided for in §§
52.080 through
52.093.
   (C)   Surveillance survey charge. The charge for each surveillance survey
shall be $20 per day with a maximum charge for seven days of $140. The Town
Council may adopt a schedule of lower, but not higher, surveillance fees and
may waive surveillance fees in proper instances, particularly when surveillance
is to detect or determine improper discharge found not to exist. In a case
where no improper discharge is found, the Town Council may nevertheless charge
a minimum fee of $10. Where the industry has an ongoing pretreatment facility
or system approved by the state or by the Town Council, there will be no
surveillance fee, unless the Town Council finds that the user having such a
pretreatment facility or system has repeatedly violated the effluent standards
applicable to such user.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.058 MONITORING OF MAJOR CONTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   A major contributor shall install at its own expense a suitable
control manhole or other access means, together with such necessary
appurtenances in or on each building lateral sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurement of the wastewater, and such sampling devices as may
be reasonably necessary, all unless otherwise instructed by the town. A user
may be required by the town to install such manholes or other access means to
verify his or her status as a major contributor or otherwise. Such manholes or
other access means and sampling and testing devices shall be constructed and
maintained to the town’s satisfaction at the expense of the user, but shall be
under the control of the town.
   (B)   The town may provide monitoring equipment during a surveillance period
for control manholes or other access means.
   (C)   Monitoring equipment shall, unless otherwise specified by the town,
include a device for automatically measuring flow and a device for
automatically taking a composite sample of wastewater during a 24-hour period.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.059 LIMITATIONS ON POINT OF DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge any substance directly into a manhole or other
opening in the sewerage system other than through the approved building (or
house) lateral sewer, except in accordance with the terms of this chapter or by
express permission of the Town Council.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.060 LICENSED COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL WASTE HAULING.
   A person who is a licensed commercial or industrial waste hauler may not
discharge compatible pollutants and those incompatible pollutants within the
limits of admissibility set out herein to the wastewater treatment plant at any
time or place; however, the Town Council may accept such discharge if it elects
in given cases to do so. Wastewater so received must have been generated within
the county.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.061 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Special agreements and arrangements between the town and any person within
the county may be established by the Town Council within the terms and intent
of this chapter when, in the opinion of the Town Council, unusual or
extraordinary circumstances compel special terms and conditions whereby an
unusual wastewater may be accepted for treatment, subject to payment of
applicable fees.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.062 PROHIBITIONS ON DISCHARGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to the sewerage system wastes which cause,
threaten to cause, or are capable of causing either alone or by interaction
with other substances:
      (1)   A fire or explosion;
      (2)   Obstruction of flow in the sewerage system or injury to the system
or damage to the wastewater collection, treatment, or disposal facilities;
      (3)   Danger to life or safety of personnel;
      (4)   A nuisance or hindrance of the effective maintenance or operation
of the sewer system, such as through having an unusually strong or unpleasant
odor;
      (5)   Air pollution by the release of toxic or unusually malodorous gases
or malodorous gas-producing substances;
      (6)   Interference with the wastewater treatment process;
      (7)   The wastewater treatment plant’s effluent or any other product of
the treatment process, residues, sludges, or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation, disposal, or to interfere with the reclamation process, or to fail
to meet any of the limitations set by any federal or state agency or the terms
of the town’s NPDES permit; and/or
      (8)   Discoloration or any other condition that interferes with control
of the treatment process.
   (B)   It shall be a violation for any person, business, or industry to
deposit any substances whatsoever into the town’s sewage works, except in the
ordinary course of living or business; provided, such substances deposited in
the ordinary course of living or business are not prohibited by any other
provision of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be a violation for any person, business, or industry to dump
waste from campers and/or recreational vehicles into the town’s sewage works.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981; Ord. passed 8-4-2003) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.063 PROHIBITION OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS.
   Unpolluted water, including, but not limited to, town water, cooling water,
process water, or blowdown from cooling towers or evaporative coolers shall not
be discharged through direct or indirect connection to the sewerage system for
purposes of diluting wastewater in order to reduce sewer rates or charges of
the user. Limitations on the amount of unpolluted water that is discharged
shall be part of a major contributor’s permit.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.064 LIMITATIONS ON RADIOACTIVE WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any radioactive waste
into the sewerage system.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.065 LIMITATIONS ON USE OF GARBAGE GRINDERS.
   Only properly shredded garbage may be discharged into the sewerage system.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.066 LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   All constituents and characteristics which singly or in combination may
damage structures, impair the operation of the wastewater treatment plant,
interfere with treatment process, or impair the quality of the receiving stream
or its tributaries including, but not limited to, the following constituents
and characteristics, with maximum concentration as follows:
   (A)   A person shall not discharge any wastewater with:
      (1)   A BOD5 concentration in excess of 250 mg/l (milligrams per liter);
      (2)   A suspended solids concentration in excess of 250 mg/l;
      (3)   A phosphorus concentration in excess of ten mg/l; and/or
      (4)   An ammonia-nitrogen combination in excess of 25 mg/l.
   (B)   No person shall discharge:
      (1)   Any wastewater containing concentration in excess of:
         (a)   A temperature higher than 150°F (65.5°C);
         (b)   A pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0; and
         (c)   The following materials in excess of the discharge amounts
shown:
Material Discharge Amount
Material                                                                        Discharge
                                                                                Amount
Cadmium                                                                         0.20 mg/l
Copper                                                                          2.00 mg/l
Cyanide amenable to chlorination (CN, A)
   For one day                                                               0.20 mg/l
   For any 30 consecutive day average                                        0.08 mg/l
Cyanide, total (CN, T)
   For one day                                                               0.64 mg/l
   For any 30 consecutive day average                                        0.24 mg/l
Hexavalent chromium (Cr, VI)
   For one day                                                               0.25 mg/l
   For any 30 consecutive day average                                        0.09 mg/l
Lead                                                                            1.00 mg/l
Mercury                                                                         0.20 mg/l
Nickel                                                                          0.80 mg/l
Oil and grease
   Animal or vegetable origin                                                200 mg/l
   Mineral or petroleum origin                                               100 mg/l
Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the town’s wastewater treatment 1.0 mg/l
process
Silver                                                                          0.10 mg/l
Zinc                                                                            0.50 mg/l
 
      (2)   Any of materials described in division (B)(1) above in other
concentration than stated if applicable state or federal regulations, or
regulations of the Town Council, set different maximum concentrations;
      (3)   Any other substance or concentration thereof prohibited to all
users or classes of users by state or federal law, or regulation now or
hereafter adopted by the Town Council; and/or
      (4)   Any water or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or
to constitute a hazard to humans or animals or to create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the treatment plant.
   (C)   The limitations imposed in division (B) above are found by the Town
Council to be those attainable by the best practical technology. Limitations
adopted by the Town Council shall in all cases be based on the best practical
technology.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.067 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Such interceptors shall be provided at all restaurants and at all
industrial or commercial enterprises when, in the opinion of the town, they are
necessary to contain grease, flammable wastes, or sand and other harmful inert
materials.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be approved by the town and shall be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.068 LIABILITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters
or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the user at his or her expense, and shall at all reasonable times
be open to inspection and testing by the town.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.069 RIGHT TO REJECT WASTE.
   The town shall have the right to reject waste and prohibit the introduction
of rejected waste into the sewerage system or the town may require pretreatment
of the waste when the strength or character of the waste is such that it could
cause damage to or interfere with the operation of the sewerage system. When
pretreatment is necessary, the pretreated wastes must meet the restrictions
contained in the Environmental Protection Agency Pretreatment Standard (40
C.F.R. part 403).
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
CHARGES AND FEES
§ 52.080 PERSONS SUBJECT TO FEES AND SEWER CHARGES.
   For the use and service rendered by the sewerage works, sewer charges shall
be collected from the person who owns each and every parcel of real estate that
is connected directly or indirectly to the town’s sewerage system or otherwise
discharges wastewater either directly or indirectly into the sewerage system of
the town, which sewer charges shall be payable as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.081 EFFECTIVE DATE; EXTENSION TO ADDITIONAL PROPERTY.
   The sewer charges fixed by this subchapter shall become effective at the
time the user first discharges to the sewerage system. These sewer charges
shall be extended to and cover any additional premises thereafter served,
without the necessity of any hearing or notice.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.082 RATE BASIS.
   The sewer flow charges shall be based on the quantity of water as measured
by the water meter used on or in the premises subject to such sewer charges,
except as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.083 SCHEDULE OF METER READING.
   Water meters shall be read once each month or, at the option of the town, at
other intervals.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.084 PROCEDURE WHEN WATER IS OBTAINED PARTIALLY OR WHOLLY FROM SOURCES
OTHER THAN THE TOWN WATER WORKS.
   In the event a user obtains water partially or wholly from sources other
than the town waterworks, the total water used must be measured or determined
as provided in §§
52.041 or
52.058, or by other reasonable means as the Town Council may direct. In the
case of a single-family household having a private well but no town water
supply, the sewer flow charge shall be for 2,700 gallons per month, unless a
meter is installed on the well at the request of either the user or the town,
in which case the cost of installation will be paid for by the user and the
meter will be provided by the town. The installation of any such meter shall be
approved by the town.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.085 PORTION OF WATER NOT ENTERING SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   In the case of a user utilizing more than 30,000 gallons of water per month,
who can substantiate to the town that a portion of said water does not and
cannot enter the sewerage system, the Town Council shall either determine the
portion of the measured water to be used in determining the appropriate sewer
charges, or approve the manner and technique of flow measurement provided by
the user for determining wastewater discharged to the sewerage system.
Facilities utilized to accomplish this shall be installed and maintained in a
serviceable condition by the user at his or her expense, but shall be under the
exclusive control of the town.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.086 BILLING PROCEDURE GENERALLY.
   (A)   Sewer billings and invoices shall be rendered and collected
approximately monthly.
   (B)   The Town Council shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as
may be deemed necessary for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding
of the sewer charges prescribed by this section.
   (C)   The Town Council may, on proper cause being shown by the applicant
that in a singular occurrence, metered water did not reach the sewerage system,
adjust the user’s sewer charge with respect to such occurrence.
   (D)   Major contributors with a flow in excess of 50,000 gallons per average
workday shall have billing determined on the basis of wastewater discharged as
monitored per §
52.057, with the exception of division (E) below.
   (E)   At its option, the town may accept monitoring data and information
from such a major contributor to substantiate billing determination on a more
frequent basis than as established in §
52.057. Such allowance, however, does not exempt the major contributor from the
surveillance survey fee set by the town to offset the cost of monitoring
performed by the town.
   (F)   In the event there is a difference in analytical results that is not
explainable by normal variation in the testing procedure, the user may, within
30 days of billing, appeal to the Town Council.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.087 TENANTS MAY BE BILLED; RIGHT OF OWNERS TO EXAMINE RECORDS.
   The sewer charges may be billed to the tenants occupying the premises
served, unless otherwise instructed in writing by the person who owns the
premises. Such billings shall in no way relieve the owner of liability in the
event payment is not made as herein required. The owners of the premises
served, which are occupied by tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether such
sewer charges have been paid by such tenants provided that such examination
shall be made at the office at which the records are kept and during the hours
that such office is open for business.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.088 LIABILITY OF TOWN FOR CHARGES.
   For the service rendered to any department or agency of the town, except the
Sewer Department, the town shall be subject to the sewer charges provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.089 SURCHARGE BASED ON FLOW AND CONCENTRATION OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   All wastewater discharged by major contributors shall meet the
admissibility standards in §§
52.055 through
52.069, by pretreatment if necessary, as determined by the Town Council.
Wastewater beyond the limits of admissibility set forth in §
52.066 may be accepted and surcharged in accordance with the schedule in §
52.091.
   (B)   Surcharges shall be based on actual quantities discharged for
treatment as determined from measured concentration and flow. Surcharge rates
for wastewater characteristics not provided for herein may be set at the
reasonable discretion of the Town Council, taking into account all of the Sewer
Department’s significant cost factors, relating to treatment, handling, and
disposal.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.090 RATES OF SURCHARGE.
   The rate of surcharge, in addition to volumetric charges, for the following
constituents shall be as follows:
   (A)   BOD in excess of 250 milligrams per liter: $0.133 per pound;
   (B)   COD where BOD cannot be determined in excess of 500 milligrams per
liter: $0.133 per pound; and
   (C)   Suspended solids in excess of 250 milligrams per liter: $0.114 per
pound.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.091 SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use and the service rendered by said sewerage works,
volumetric sewer charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be
in an amount determinable as follows:
      (1)   Recurring rates and charges:
         (a)   Metered rate per month;
         (b)   Minimum charge; per user, per month;
         (c)   Flat rate charge (unmetered); and
         (d)   Late charges.
      (2)   Non-recurring rates and charges:
         (a)   Returned check charge;
         (b)   Tap charges; and
         (c)   Service calls.
   (B)   In the event that two or more dwelling units, such as trailer courts
or apartment houses, are billed on a metered basis and share a single water
meter, then the billing shall be for a single service in the manner set out
elsewhere herein, except that there shall be an additional charge of $0.89 per
month for each dwelling unit over one served through the single water meter.
   (C)   The Town Council is empowered to determine rates, charges, and fees
for septic tank, industrial wastes, and other disposable wastewater and wastes
delivered to the wastewater treatment plant, as provided in §
52.060, and to collect such charges and fees.
   (D)   The Town Council is empowered to determine and to collect such charges
as it may reasonably provide for under special agreements entered into by the
Town Council, on behalf of the town, under §
52.061.
   (E)   Each user shall at the time he or she is connected to the sewer
system, pay a minimum fee of $90. However, if the initial expense for the
connection exceeds $90 (labor, materials, and equipment), the user shall pay
the actual amount of cost up to a maximum amount to $250.
   (F)   Rates and charges for sewers are as follows:
      (1)   Recurring rates and charges.
 Phase I Phase II Phase III
                                           Phase I Phase II Phase III
Flat rate charge (unmetered)
   Per meter, per month                 $36.24  $37.33   $38.45
Metered rate per month (per 1,000 gallons)
   First 2,700 gallons                  $13.44  $13.84   $14.26
   Next 5,700 gallons                   $11.46  $11.80   $12.15
   Next 8,300 gallons                   $11.09  $11.42   $11.76
   Next 17,300 gallons                  $10.79  $11.11   $11.12
Minimum charge (per user, per month)
   Size of meter
      All meter sizes                $36.24  $37.33   $38.45
Note to table:
   Phase I is effective January 1, 2018
   Phase II is effective January 1, 2019
   Phase III is effective January 1, 2020
 
      (2)   Late charges. Late charges shall be 10% of the balance on the due
date.
      (3)   Non-recurring rates and charges. Non-recurring rates and charges
are as follows:
         (a)   Returned check charge: $15;
         (b)   Tap charges: 10% of the balance on the due date:
            1.   Five-eighths-inch and three-fourths-inch connections: $1,500;
and
            2.   Other size connections: at the actual cost of the connection.
         (c)   Service call; minimum charge: $25.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981; Ord. 85-2, passed 4-1-1991; Ord. passed 4-1-1991;
Ord. 2006-02, passed 5-1-2006; Ord. 5-2013, passed 10-7-2013; Ord. 2017-09,
passed 12-4-2017)
§ 52.092 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Charges for sewerage service levied pursuant to this chapter shall be due
and payable on or before the due dates shown on the bills. Any service charge
not paid by the due date (approximately 15 days after the bill is rendered)
shall be considered delinquent. Delinquent sewage charges together with costs
and other expenses of collection may be collected by any lawful remedy,
including, where applicable, the placing of and foreclosure of liens on real
estate as provided by state law.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 52.093 OUTSIDE METER FOR SEWER DISCOUNT.
   (A)   The town will provide a meter for outdoor water usage only. This
service will be available during the months of May through September. The meter
will be provided upon request of the customer. The meter will be read and
subtracted from the sewage portion of the bill. There will be no discount on
water usage.
   (B)   The customer may sign up for a meter at the Town Hall for a maximum of
five days at a time.
   (C)   If a customer wants the meter for an additional period of time, they
will have to make arrangements with the town. Due to a limited number of
meters, they may have to be added to a waiting list.
   (D)   The readings will be taken when the meter leaves our office and when
it is returned. The discount will be applied to the bill depending on the
town’s billing cycle.
   (E)   There will be no charge for a meter on the five-day basis. If there is
a customer that would like a meter for several months, they may purchase a
meter from the town at the town’s cost of the meter and fittings. The purchased
meter will be read monthly and the discount will be applied to the bill
depending on the town’s billing cycle.
   (F)   If the meter is not returned, the customer will be liable for the cost
of a new meter. The town has the authority to revoke a meter at any time.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 52.094 STORMWATER UTILITY FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a monthly stormwater utility fee to be
charged to all owners of real estate within the town for the use of and
services provided by the stormwater utility of the town.
   (B)   For residential real estate, the stormwater fee shall be a flat
residential customer charge per month, per residence as detailed below:
      (1)   Phase I (effective upon adoption): $4.25; and
      (2)   Phase II (effective January 1, 2018): $6.25.
   (C)   For non-residential real estate, the stormwater fee shall be a flat
non-residential customer charge per month, per non-residential parcel, as
detailed below:
      (1)   Phase I (effective upon adoption): $4.25; and
      (2)   Phase II (effective January 1, 2018): $6.25.
   (D)   If the monthly stormwater utility fee is not paid by the due date
stated on the bill, a late charge of 10% will be assessed together with any and
all costs of collection, if any, including reasonable attorney’s fees and costs
of collection. Delinquent charges for stormwater services, as well as applied
penalties, recording fees, and service charges, constitute a lien upon the
property and may be collected in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-9-
25-11.
   (E)   The invalidity of any division, clause, sentence, or provision of this
section shall not affect the validity of any other part of this section, which
can be given effect without such invalid part or parts.
   (F)   The monthly stormwater user fee as herein set forth shall become
effective upon adoption of this section.
   (G)   All other provisions of the town’s sewer system and its sewer
ordinances not amended by this section shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 6-2013, passed 10-7-2013; Ord. 2016-10, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   The commission of any act prohibited by this chapter or by lawful order of
the Superintendent or lawful order or regulation of the Town Council, or the
failure to perform without lawful justification any lawful order of the
Superintendent or lawful order or regulation of the Town Council shall be a
punishable violation of this chapter for which, unless there is another
specific penalty provided, the penalty shall be a fine of not less than $10 nor
more than $500. In the case of discharges into the sewerage system in violation
of this chapter or any valid order of regulation of the Town Council, each day
of violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 11-2-1981)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING RULES
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   CARGO VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Noise of motor vehicles
   
70.02   Speed limits
   
70.03   Toy vehicles
   
70.04   Driving, riding on sidewalks
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 NOISE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate, or cause to be operated, a
motor vehicle on the streets or public highways of the town in such a manner or
with such equipment as to make, create, facilitate, increase, or maintain any
loud, unnecessary, excessive, or unusual noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, and quiet of others.
(Ord. 67-3, passed 10-2-1967) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Except on streets and highways designated as state highways, upon
which state speed limits shall pertain, the maximum speed of vehicles within
the town, on designated streets and alleys in the town, shall be 25 mph, and
the Town Council, by resolution, shall designate locations where speed signs
shall be located as will give persons notice thereof, and cause such signs to
be erected. The Town Council, by resolution, from time to time, shall reduce
such speed limits and erect signs accordingly, where it determines special
hazards exist.
   (B)   The speed limit on all alleyways within the town shall be limited not
to exceed five mph.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 99-4, passed 6-7-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or propel any tricycle,
velocipede, child’s wagon, lawnmower, or wheelbarrow upon or along any cement
sidewalk within the town; provided, that this section shall not apply to any
person or persons crossing any sidewalk by way of egress or ingress to other
private premises.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-23-1905) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 DRIVING, RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to ride or drive any
kind of animal attached to any kind of vehicle, machinery, or thing upon any
gravel, brick, stone, plank, cement, or other sidewalk of the town for the use
of foot passengers, except in the necessary act of crossing the same by way of
ingress and egress.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or propel any bicycle on
or along any sidewalk of said town, except in the necessary act of crossing the
same by way of ingress or egress.
(Ord. 23, passed 1-23-1905) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
70.01,
70.03 and
70.04 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as follows:
      (1)   First violation in a calendar year: $25;
      (2)   Second violation in a calendar year: $50; and
      (3)   Third violation in a calendar year: $100.
   (C)   Any violation of any of the provisions of §
70.02 shall be punished by a fine of $75.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-23-1905; Ord. 23, passed 1-23-1905; Ord. 67-3, passed 10-2-
1967; Ord. 91-3, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 99-4, passed 6-7-1999; Ord. 2014-7,
passed 6-2-2014)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES
Section
   
71.01   Stopping, standing, or parking generally; prohibited areas
   
71.02   Disabled vehicles; temporary parking
   
71.03   Removal of vehicle obstructing traffic
   
71.04   Semi-tractor trailer parking
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING GENERALLY; PROHIBITED AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or to avoid conflict with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (9)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of said entrance (when properly posted by sign);
      (10)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (11)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
of the curb of a street; and/or
      (13)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle along the right-
hand curb of any street within the town in an opposite direction to normal
traffic flow.
   (C)   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by such person into any such
prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 DISABLED VEHICLES; TEMPORARY PARKING.
   Upon any highway outside of a business or residence district, no person
shall stop, park, or leave standing, any vehicle whether attended or unattended
upon the paved or main traveled part of the highway when it is practicable to
stop, park or so leave such vehicle off such part of said street, but in every
event a sufficient unobstructed width of the roadway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles and a clear view
of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway. This section shall not apply to the driver of any
vehicle, which is disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled
portion of a street in such manner, and to such extent that it is impossible to
avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such officer is hereby
authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to
move the vehicle to a position off the paved or improved or main traveled part
of such highway, provided that if any person so directed shall fail or refuse
to move said vehicle or if such vehicle is unattended, then such officer is
hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest
available garage or other place of safety.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such officer is
hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest
available garage or other place of safety.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 71.04 SEMI-TRACTOR TRAILER PARKING.
   Semi-tractor trailers or any combination thereof are prohibited from parking
on public streets and/or property within the town.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fines for unlawful stopping, standing, or parking in prohibited areas
shall be as follows:
      (1)   First violation in a calendar year: $25;
      (2)   Second violation in a calendar year: $50; and
      (3)   Third violation in a calendar year: $100.
   (B)   The fines are payable within 30 days of the issuance of a parking
ticket. Fines not paid within the prescribed time period are then increased to
$20 and payable within 60 days of issuance of the parking ticket.
   (C)   Persons not paying parking tickets within the 60-day time period will
be turned over to the Town Attorney for collection. Persons not having reason
for non-payment of parking fines will be assessed court costs and attorney fees
and any other fees incurred during the course of this collection.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 10-7-2002; Ord 2014-7, passed 6-2-2014)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operations; times and locations
   
72.03   Operator restrictions
   
72.04   Financial responsibility
   
72.05   Occupants
   
72.06   Traffic rules
   
72.07   Equipment
   
72.08   Registration and inspection
   
72.09   Excluded
Off-Road Vehicles
   
72.20   Definitions
   
72.21   Highways designated
   
72.22   Restrictions on operation
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by the
state or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle with three or four wheels, originally designed for
operation on a golf course and powered by a battery or internal combustion
motor.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -)
§ 72.02 OPERATIONS; TIMES AND LOCATIONS.
   (A)   The operation of a golf cart within the town is strictly prohibited
unless the golf cart is operated and equipped in full compliance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   No golf cart can be driven on town streets after dark.
   (C)   Golf carts may be operated on town streets. Golf carts may not be
operated on sidewalks.
   (D)   No person shall operate or park a golf cart or permit a golf cart to
be operated or be parked on Jackson Street (State Road 18) or on California
Street (US Highway 35) within the town. State and/or US highways can only be
crossed at 90 degrees.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -; Ord. 2019-04, passed 11-11-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OPERATOR RESTRICTIONS.
   Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid driver’s license may
operate a golf cart.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The financial ability of the operator notwithstanding, the operator of
a golf cart must show financial responsibility when operating a golf cart.
   (B)   Written proof of financial responsibility (insurance) must be
available, either on the golf cart or carried by the operator at all times.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number of
persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on the golf cart.
The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and no part of
the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside the perimeter of the
golf cart while the cart is being operated.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 TRAFFIC RULES.
   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town which govern the operation of a
motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 EQUIPMENT.
   All golf carts must have the following equipment:
   (A)   Headlights, taillights, turn signals (must be used);
   (B)   Seatbelts (must be worn);
   (C)   Orange safety flag that is at least five feet above the surface of the
ground;
   (D)   Slow moving vehicle sign on the rear of the golf cart;
   (E)   Rear view mirror; and
   (F)   If golf cart is propelled by a gas engine, the engine must have the
proper muffler so as not to interfere with the peace of the citizens of the
town.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Each owner of a golf cart operated on the streets or alleys in the
town shall:
      (1)   Annually complete an application for submission to the Town Police
Department;
      (2)   Provide proof of insurance to the town; and
      (3)   Pay a registration fee of $25 which shall be deposited into the
LECE (233-225) Golf Cart Permit Fund in accordance with I.C. 5-2-8-2.
   (B)   Annual inspections and renewals must be done by May 15 each year. The
annual renewal and inspection fee of $15 will be due at the time of the annual
renewal and inspection and shall be deposited into the LECE (233-225) Golf Cart
Permit Fund in accordance with I.C. 5-2-8-2.
   (C)   The town shall provide to the owner of a registered golf cart a decal,
which shall be affixed to the front of the golf cart where it can be easily
seen. Decal shall display the month and year of expiration of registration and
an assigned number for registration purposes.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -; Ord. 2019-04, passed 11-11-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 EXCLUDED.
   All other forms of recreational vehicles and off-road vehicles (examples
include: go carts, snowmobiles, and the like) are excluded from this subchapter
and operation is not permitted on town streets.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 11-11-2019)
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 72.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Natural Resources.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Natural Resources.
   HIGHWAY, STREET, or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width between the boundary
lines every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is pent the use of
the public for purposes of vehicle travel.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motor driven vehicle capable of cross-country travel
with benefit of a road or trail, in or immediately over land, water, snow, ice,
marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain. It includes but is not limited to
multi-wheel drive or low-pressure tire vehicles, amphibious machine(s), ground
effect air cushion vehicle of other means of transportation deriving motive
power from a source other than muscle or wind. It does not include golf carts,
two wheel dirt bikes, farm vehicles being used for farming, a vehicle used for
military law or law enforcement purposes, construction, mining, or other
industrial related vehicles use in performance of its common function or a
registered aircraft and does not include for registration any other vehicle
properly registered by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and any watercraft which
is registered pursuant to state statutes.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, and to be in actual physical control of the
operation of an off-road vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in the actual physical control of an
off-road vehicle in the town.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien-holder, who has the property or title to
an off-road vehicle and is entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, the state and any of its
agencies or subdivisions and any body of person, whether incorporated or not.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 72.21 HIGHWAYS DESIGNATED.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, all highways within
the town’s road system may be utilized for travel by off-road vehicles, subject
to the rule and regulation now existing or hereafter enacted by the State
Department of Natural Resources and applicable state statutes.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 72.22 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on a town highway and/or road
system pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-23 as follows:
   (A)   An individual shall not operate a vehicle under any of the following
conditions:
      (1)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having due
regard for existing conditions or in a manner that unnecessarily endangers the
person or property of another;
      (2)   While:
         (a)   Under the influence of an alcoholic beverage; and/or
         (b)   Unlawfully under the influence of a narcotic or other habit
forming or dangerous depressant or stimulant drug.
      (3)   During the hours from 30 minutes after sunset to 30 minutes before
sunrise without displaying a lighted headlight and a lighted taillight;
      (4)   In a forest nursery, a planting area, or public land posted or
reasonably identified as an area of forest or plant reproduction and when
growing stock may be damaged;
      (5)   On the frozen surface of public waters within:
         (a)   One hundred feet of an individual not in or upon a vehicle; or
         (b)   One hundred feet of a fishing shanty or shelter; except at a
speed of not more than five mph.
      (6)   Unless the vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying
smoke;
      (7)   Within 100 feet of a dwelling between 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
except on the individual’s own property or property under the individual’s
control or as an invited guest;
      (8)   On any property without the consent of the landowner or tenant;
      (9)   While transporting on or in the vehicle a firearm, unless the
firearm is:
         (a)   Unloaded; and
         (b)   Securely encased or equipped with and made inoperative by a
manufactured key locked trigger housing mechanism.
      (10)   On or across a cemetery or burial ground;
      (11)   Within 100 feet of a slide, ski, or skating area, except for the
purpose of servicing the area;
      (12)   On a railroad track or railroad right-of-way, except railroad
personnel in the performance of duties;
      (13)   In or upon a flowing river, stream, or creek, except for the
purpose of crossing by the shortest possible route, unless the river, stream,
or creek is of sufficient water depth to permit movement by flotation of the
vehicle at all times;
      (14)   An individual shall not operate a vehicle while a bow is present
in or on the vehicle if the nock of an arrow is in position on the string of
the bow; and/or
      (15)   Under the age of 16.
   (B)   Division (A)(9) above does not apply to a person who is carrying a
firearm:
      (1)   If:
         (a)   The firearm is a handgun; and
         (b)   The person is not otherwise prohibited from possessing a firearm
under state or federal law.
      (2)   If the person carrying the firearm is operating the vehicle on
property that the person:
         (a)   Owns;
         (b)   Has a contractual interest in;
         (c)   Otherwise legally possesses; or
         (d)   Has permission from a person described in divisions (B)(2)(A)
through (B)(2)(C) above to possess a firearm on.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-9-2023) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The following penalties shall apply to any person violating any
provision of this chapter:
         (a)   First violation is a fine of $35;
         (b)   Second violation is a fine of $50;
         (c)   Third violation is a fine of $150; and
         (d)   Fourth violation, golf cart will be impounded and permit will be
revoked. Golf cart cannot be returned until tow and storage fee is paid along
with a $250 fine.
      (2)   If permit is revoked, it cannot be reinstated for one year from the
date of revocation. When permit is reinstated, there will be a $100
reinstatement fee along with the $25 permit fee which is nonrefundable. This
reinstatement will be a probationary reinstatement for six months from the date
of reinstatement. Any further violations during this period will result in
total revocation of permit with no reinstatement possible.
   (C)   Any operator who violates this §§
72.20 through
72.22, shall commit a Class C infraction, unless otherwise provided by state
statute(s).
(Ord. 2012-5, passed - -; Ord. 2023-02, passed 1-9-2023)
CHAPTER 73: CARGO VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Designation of travel
   
73.03   Prohibition of travel
   
73.04   Erection of signs
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   A CARGO VEHICLE is any motor vehicles designed or used primarily for the
purposes of carrying cargo and having more than two axles whether such axles
are upon any single vehicle or of any combination of vehicle and trailer
attached in tandem or having a gross weight of more than 13,500 pounds.
(Ord. 87-2, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 73.02 DESIGNATION OF TRAVEL.
   Cargo vehicle routes within the town shall be US Highway 35 and State
Highway 18 as presently located, or as they may be relocated in the future.
(Ord. 87-2, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 73.03 PROHIBITION OF TRAVEL.
   No cargo vehicles shall be moved or parked upon any street or alley within
the town except on a cargo vehicle route. Such cargo vehicle may drive upon any
street in the town which lies upon the most direct route of a cargo vehicle
from a cargo vehicle route to a point in which it is to deliver or pick up
cargo, or to its place of garagement, or to a place for repairs, or at the
direction of a police officer and in following a duly marked detour or a truck
route.
(Ord. 87-2, passed 5-4-1987) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 ERECTION OF SIGNS.
   The town is directed to cause appropriate signs to be erected notifying the
public of said cargo vehicle routes.
(Ord. 87-2, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a Class C infraction.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined as follows:
      (1)   First violation in a calendar year: $25;
      (2)   Second violation in a calendar year: $50; and
      (3)   Third violation in a calendar year: $100.
   (C)   Fines are payable within 30 days of the issuance of a ticket. Fines
are payable at the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office. Fines not paid within the
prescribed time period are then increased by $25. In the event of the increase,
the $25 is due within 60 days after the issuance of the citation for
infraction.
   (D)   The town may file, in any court having jurisdiction, an action for
violation of this chapter in the event that a traffic ticket is not paid within
60 days. In the event of the filing of any action under this chapter, a person
who is found to be guilty of violation of this chapter may be fined in any sum
as provided for by law under a violation of a Class C infraction. Further, any
person who has violated this chapter shall pay a reasonable sum to the Town
Attorney for the prosecution of the enforcement of this order, plus court
costs.
(Ord. 87-2, passed 5-4-1987; Ord. 2014-7, passed 6-2-2014)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Preferential and through streets
SCHEDULE I. PREFERENTIAL AND THROUGH STREETS.
   The following street portions thereof are hereby designated as preferential
through streets:
Street Location
Street            Location
Drake Road        At Kenilworth Lane
Kenilworth Lane   At York Road
Lincoln Street    At Howard Street
Lincoln Street    At North Street
Maple Avenue      At Griffith Street
Maple Avenue      At Howard Street
Sycamore Street   At Washington Street
Washington Street At Drake Street
 
(Ord. 64-3, passed 7-6-1964) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle on any street within
the town where official signs prohibit such action as outlined in this
schedule:
Street Direction Location
Street               Direction  Location
E. Griffith Street   South side From S. Deer Creek Street West to US 35
E. North Street      South side From N. Sycamore Street West to US 35
E. Washington Street South side From S. Sycamore Street West to US 35
Kenilworth Lane                 From Raleigh Road West to Park Road
N. Lincoln Street    West side  From State Road 18 North to Walnut Street
S. Deer Creek Street            From US 35 North to E. Griffith Street
W. Washington Street South side From US 35 West to S. Maple Street
W. Griffith Street   South side From US 35 West to S. Maple Street
 
   (B)   The following regulations apply to N. Sycamore Street.
      (1)   Parking will be regulated on the east side of the street from State
Road 18 along a line north to include six parking spaces along the west side of
the Galveston City Building, which will be reserved between the hours of 7:00
a.m. to 4:00 p.m. daily, Monday through Friday for use of town business only.
      (2)   Diagonal parking shall be permitted all along the east side of the
street from State Road 18 North to North Street.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 10-7-2002; Ord. 2-2014, passed 4-7-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION; BURNING
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   TREES
      
97.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
90.01   Objectives
   
90.02   License fee
   
90.03   Revocation of license
   
90.04   Required operational practices
   
90.05   Confidentiality of information
   
90.06   Fees
   
90.07   Liability of the town
   
90.08   Discontinuance of alarm system
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 OBJECTIVES.
   The objective of this chapter is to reduce the number of false alarms which
are generated each day within the town so emergency personnel are free to
respond to real emergencies. As a general rule, the majority of the alarm
dispatches called into the County Emergency Communications Center on a daily
basis are false alarms. Many of these false alarms are due to accidental
tripping of the alarm, a pet tripping the alarm, initial testing of the
equipment, improperly installed or adjusted equipment, or faulty equipment.
Whatever the reason, town emergency personnel resources are dispatched for each
alarm called into the County Emergency Communications Center by an alarm
business.
(Ord. 1-2005, passed - -)
§ 90.02 LICENSE FEE.
   An annual non-refundable fee of $35 shall accompany each application for an
alarm business license. This fee shall be $20 for an alarm residence license.
There will be no charge for medical alarm systems.
(Ord. 1-2005, passed - -)
§ 90.03 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   An alarm license may be revoked if it has been determined that:
   (A)   False statements or false information were made on an application for
a license or a renewal or reinstatement;
   (B)   The licensee violated any provision of the town’s alarm systems
ordinance;
   (C)   The licensee committed any act, which would be grounds for denial of
an application for a license; and/or
   (D)   The licensee failed to pay any previous fine for false alarms.
(Ord. 1-2005, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 REQUIRED OPERATIONAL PRACTICES.
   When an alarm business leases or installs an alarm system:
   (A)   Installation must comply with the town’s alarm systems ordinance;
   (B)   The alarm business shall offer service for that alarm system on a 24-
hour, seven days a week basis and have a contact person responsible for repair
and maintenance of the alarm system. This information shall be provided to the
alarm user, in writing, at the time of the lease or installation;
   (C)   The alarm user shall be provided written instructions on how to
operate the system and any user maintenance which may be required. The written
instructions will be in clear, concise language the alarm user can read and
understand; and
   (D)   When an alarm user elects to have law enforcement personnel as the
first response after alarm activation, it shall be the responsibility of the
alarm business to:
      (1)   Provide the alarm user, at the time of the lease or installation of
the alarm system, a written copy of the town’s false alarm penalties and
procedures;
      (2)   Forward to the Town Clerk-Treasurer a copy of the town’s false
alarm penalties and procedures signed by the alarm user, acknowledging that the
user understands how to operate the alarm system and also understands the
town’s billing system for false alarms;
      (3)   Register with the Town Clerk-Treasurer each alarm system monitored
by the business, prior to commencement of monitoring. Registration fee is $10
per alarm user;
      (4)   Notify the Town Clerk-Treasurer of termination of monitoring and
changes in ownership of property;
      (5)   Re-register alarm users if they change address or alarm companies.
Alarm user registrations are not transferable;
      (6)   Attempt to contact alarm user by telephone, prior to contacting the
communications center, to verify that the alarm is valid; and
      (7)   Provide the alarm user’s permit number, name, and address when
contacting the communications center regarding an alarm.
(Ord. 1-2005, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.
   All information submitted in compliance with this chapter shall be held in
strictest confidence, shall be deemed a public record exempt from disclosure,
and shall be kept so the contents thereof shall not be known except to persons
responsible for administration and enforcement of this chapter. Nothing herein,
however, shall prevent the use of such information for law enforcement
purposes.
(Ord. 1-2005, passed - -)
§ 90.06 FEES.
   (A)   The response fee is as follows:
 
                              Residence Business
First and second false alarms No charge No charge
Third false alarm             $25       $50
Fourth false alarm            $40       $100
All subsequent false alarms   $100      $250
 
   (B)   No fee shall be charged for the following conditions:
      (1)   Due to violent conditions of nature including electrical storms;
      (2)   For cable, line, or power failure which has been specifically
verified by the appropriate utility company serving the alarm location;
      (3)   For alarms where the communications center is notified within two
minutes of receipt of notification of the alarm that emergency personnel are
not required;
      (4)   For those alarms resulting from valid situations requiring an
urgent response by law enforcement, fire, or emergency medical personnel as
verified by a report filed by such personnel; and/or
      (5)   For those alarms received by a medical alarm system.
(Ord. 1-2005, passed - -)
§ 90.07 LIABILITY OF THE TOWN.
   The town shall take every reasonable precaution to assure that alarm systems
and alarm messages received by the communications center are given appropriate
attention and are acted upon with dispatch. Nevertheless, the town shall not be
liable for any defect in operation of automatic devices and signal line
systems, for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an
alarm from such a source, nor for the failure or neglect of any person or
agency providing dispatch or monitoring services to properly notify the town or
its communications center as a result of failure in the connection with the
installation and operation of equipment, the transmission of alarm signals and
alarm messages, or the relaying of any such signals or messages to the
communications center.
(Ord. 1-2005, passed - -)
§ 90.08 DISCONTINUANCE OF ALARM SYSTEM.
   (A)   If more than four false alarms are received by the town and its
communications center within a calendar year period, the town may, at its
option, require the owner or occupant of the premises so having installed the
alarm system to disconnect the automatic system, and the town shall incur no
liability for such action.
   (B)   In the event of a false alarm, a false alarm notification form will be
left at the alarm location by police officers responding to the alarm call. The
notification form contains the date and time of the false alarm, and provides
further information to the owner/occupant of the premises.
(Ord. 1-2005, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined as follows:
      (1)   First violation in a calendar year: $25;
      (2)   Second violation in a calendar year: $50; and
      (3)   Third violation in a calendar year: $100.
   (B)   Payment of fees is due 30 days from original invoice date. In the
event the administrative fee is not paid within 60 days of notification, a late
fee in the amount of $10 per false alarm call shall be added to the amount due
every 30-day period that the amount remains unpaid.
   (C)   Should a disagreement arise over an administrative penalty, an appeal
may be submitted in writing by the alarm business within 30 days from the
original invoice date. A copy of the invoice needs to be included in the
appeal. Appeals must be sent to:
      Galveston Police Department
      103 North Sycamore Street
      P.O. Box 597
      Galveston, Indiana 46932
      Attn: False Alarm Administrator
(Ord. 1-2005, passed - -; Ord. 2014-7, passed 6-2-2014)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Prohibitions
   
91.03   Restraint by tethering
   
91.04   Apprehension and impounding animals
   
91.05   Notice to owner
   
91.06   Redemption and disposition of impounded animals
   
91.07   Disposition of moneys collected
   
91.08   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live, non-human vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by the Department of Animal Services
or a municipal agency, or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding
or caring for animals held under the authorization of this chapter or state
law.
   AT LARGE. Elsewhere than on the owner’s premises, and:
      (1)   Not restrained by a leash; or
      (2)   Not under the immediate and complete control of a person capable of
controlling such animal.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. Law enforcement officers or authorized employee of the
Department of Animal Services.
   CAT. All domestic members of the feline family of animals.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of the Department of
Animal Services:
      (1)   Has aggressively bitten, attacked, or endangered, or has inflicted
severe injury or death on a human being on public or private properties;
      (2)   Has been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting
or is a dog trained for dog fighting; and/or
      (3)   Has been listed a potentially dangerous dog by the Department of
Animal Services and exhibits behavior warranting listing as a DANGEROUS DOG.
   DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL SERVICES. The Animal Care and Control Department of
County Animal Control.
    DOG. All domestic members of the canine family of animals.
   HARBOR. The actions of any person who permits any animal to habitually
remain or lodge or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard, or
place of business, or any premises on which such person resides or controls.
Animal shall be presumed HARBORED if is fed or sheltered for three days.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   LESS SEVERE INJURY. Any injury caused that results in a minor puncture,
piercing, or breaking of the skin made with teeth, fangs, or claws of any
animal that does not require extensive medical treatment.
   OWNER. Any person or persons owing or having the care, custody, or control
of any animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, engages in any behavior that
requires a defensive action by any person to prevent bodily injury when the
person and the dog are off the dog owner’s property;
      (2)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, bites a person causing a LESS
SEVERE INJURY as defined above;
      (3)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, has killed, seriously bitten,
inflicted injury, or otherwise caused injury attacking a domestic animal off
the property of the owner or otherwise caused injury attacking a domestic
animal off the property of the owner or keeper of the dog;
      (4)   Chases or menaces a person; and/or
      (5)   Runs at large.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals that:
      (1)   Attack passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Damages public or private property;
      (3)   Are not confined while in estrus (“heat”); or
      (4)   Bark, whine, or howl in an excessive or continuous fashion,
unreasonable under the circumstances, as to violate the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by leash or confining it within the
real property limits by its owner.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
    WILD ANIMALS. Any non-domesticated animal, with the exception of small non-
poisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small caged birds.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 91.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following prohibitions shall apply and be enforceable in the town.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow, suffer, or permit an
animal to be at large within the
town; except, that it shall be permissible during hunting season prescribed by
state law for hunting dogs to be allowed to hunt with their owners on private
property when permission has been obtained from the owner of the real estate
and to hunt on state lands where allowed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, molest, or interfere
with any authorized official in the performance of any duty described in this
chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit the animal
to be a public nuisance within the town. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for
any owner of any animal to recklessly or carelessly fail to exercise control
over the animal in such a way that the animal is a public nuisance.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor a
dangerous dog or wild animal within the town; provided, this section shall not
apply to animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency. For
the purpose of this chapter, an animal may be declared dangerous by the
Department of Animal Services.
   (E)   No persons owning, harboring, or having the care of a dangerous
animals shall permit such animal to go unconfined on the premises of such
person. A dangerous animal is UNCONFINED as the term is used in this section if
such animal is not:
      (1)   Confined indoors; or
      (2)   Confined outdoors in an enclosed and locked pen or structure upon
the premises of the person described above; provided, the existence of a such
pen or structure is permitted by zoning regulations. Maintenance of a dangerous
animal is not permitted in areas where such structures or pens are not
authorized by the zoning regulations. If permitted, such pen or structure shall
be as follows:
 
Size of Animal                                               Square Feet of Pen
Extra large (over 26 inches at withers or over 75 lbs.)      48
Large (over 20 inches and up to 26 inches at withers or not  40
over 75 lbs.)
Medium (over 12 inches and up to 20 inches at withers or not 32
over 50 lbs.)
Small (12 inches or less at withers or not over 20 lbs.)     24
 
   (F)   (1)   The pen must be constructed with chain link fencing for all four
sides and the top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides,
the sides must be imbedded in the ground no less than one foot or have a
concrete pad for the bottom. The pen structure shall be set back at least ten
feet from the nearest property line.
      (2)   No potentially dangerous dog shall be chained, tethered, or
otherwise tied to any inanimate object, such as a tree or post of a building
that is outside its proper enclosure while unattended by the owner or competent
custodian.
      (3)   The owner of any potentially dangerous animal shall consent to
periodic inspections by the Department of Animal Services.
      (4)   The owner of any potentially dangerous dog shall have such a dog
permanently identified by means of microchip at th owner’s and the owner of any
potentially dangerous dog shall provide the Department of Animal Service with a
color photograph of the dog taken within 12 months, suitable for use in
identifying the dog.
   (G)   Any potentially dangerous dog, which has escaped from its fenced
enclosure may be impounded by the Department of Animal Service, whether or not
it has been returned to its enclosure at the time of impoundment. If
impoundment pursuant to this division (F) occurs, the animal shall not be
returned to person responsible for it.
   (H)   It is unlawful to deprive any animal of necessary food, drink, or
shelter or expose to the elements of the weather and to the extremes of heat or
cold, or refuse to obtain veterinary care for illness, injury, disease, or
infirmity, or willfully instigate, engaged in, or in any way further an act of
cruelty to any animal, or any act to produce such cruelty. All animals, where
kept in a pen, tied, fastened, hitched, leashed, or enclosed by a fence shall
be kept in a sanitary manner.
   (I)   A violation of this section shall subject the violator to a civil fine
of not less than the amount designated § 91.99. Additionally, upon the third
violation of this chapter, the animal shall be seized and impounded. If such
ordinance violation results in the dog causing severe injury to any person, the
court may, upon request after hearing, order the animal forfeited and/or
destroyed.
   (J)   Any potentially dangerous dog found at large or not confined as
required by this chapter may be captured, impounded, and it may be returned to
its owner only if the enforcement authority, in its discretion, determines that
such return will not result in further or ongoing violations of this chapter.
If such determination cannot be made, or if the dog’s action have caused severe
injury, the enforcement officer shall apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for an order to dispose of the animal.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 RESTRAINT BY TETHERING.
   Restraint by tethering may be used, provided the following conditions are
met.
   (A)   The tether shall not weigh more than one-eighth of the animal’s body
weight. When a violation of this provision occurs, the Department of Animal
Services is authorized to take reasonable measures to remove the animal from
the tether and take the tethered animal to a shelter.
   (B)   The tether shall be at least ten feet in length with operative swivels
on both ends.
   (C)   The tether shall be attached to a properly fitted collar or harness
worn by the animal; the tether may not be attached to a slip or prong collar.
   (D)   The animal, while restrained by tether, is able to access proper
shelter with sufficient floor, at least three walls, and roof to protect the
animal from the weather, extreme temperatures, and direct sunlight; and is able
to access sufficient potable water and sufficient wholesome food.
    (E)   In the interest of public safety, animal control officers are
authorized to remove aggressive and dangerous dogs from the tethers and impound
such animals where the animal is accessible by children or the public without a
secured fence or enclosure,
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-6-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 APPREHENSION AND IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   It is the duty of the persons and agencies so authorized by the town to
apprehend and impound:
   (A)   Any dog or cat at large, or any dog or cat deemed a public nuisance;
   (B)   Any animal which has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a person
or which appears to have rabies;
   (C)   Any dangerous dog; and
   (D)   Any potentially dangerous dog outside of its secure structure.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 91.05 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   No later than three days after impounding of a dog which was wearing an
identification at the time of its impounding, the Department of Animal Services
shall notify the owner advising of the impounding of the dog. If the owner
fails to redeem the dog within five days after notice by mail, phone, or
electronic mail, the owner loses ownership of the dog, and it may be destroyed,
or possession given to the Department of Animal Services. This notice provision
shall apply to any animal impounded under this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 91.06 REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any healthy dog or cat apprehended or impounded may be redeemed by the
owner or other person as authorized in §
91.05 within five days of such apprehension, upon showing that the dog or cat
has current rabies vaccination tag or certificate, and the payment of the
following fees:
      (1)   If the dog or cat has been apprehended by an agent of the
Department of Animal Services:
         (a)   A reasonable fee for room and board for each day or fraction
thereof, during which the dog or cat was impounded; and
         (b)   Any penalty authorized by this chapter.
      (2)   After five days, the dog or cat may be destroyed, or possession
given to the Department of Animal Service; and
      (3)   This division (A) shall apply to any animal impounded under this
chapter.
   (B)   Any animal impounded, for any reason, which appears to any duly
licensed veterinarian to have any infectious or contagious disease, other than
rabies, may be destroyed forthwith.
   (C)   Any person bitten by an animal must report the incident to the County
Department of Health and the Department of Animal Services.
   (D)   Any dog or cat apprehended and impounded for having bitten a person,
being suspected of having bitten a person, or appearing to have rabies, shall
be assessed by the Department of Animal Services to determine whether the bite
constitutes the dog or cat being dangerous or potentially dangerous. If so
assessed, the provision of this chapter related to those dogs or cats shall be
superseded by this provision. Otherwise, the dog or cat shall be kept under
observation at the Department of Animal Services for a minimum of ten days
unless such dog or cat shall sooner die. At the expiration of the ten-day
period, the animal may be redeemed by the owner or other person as provided in
this section, upon showing that the animal has a rabies vaccination tag and by
payment of the fees as set forth in division (A) above; provided, however, home
quarantine of an owned animal may be allowed by the County Health Department.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 91.07 DISPOSITION OF MONEYS COLLECTED.
   All fines collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid to the Town Clerk
and deposited in the town’s General Fund. Payment shall be to the appropriate
office in the Town Hall.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 91.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter may be by lawsuit initiated in the name of the
town by the Town Attorney for the town or by prosecution under the laws of the
state where applicable. In the event it is necessary to file such a lawsuit,
the defendant shall pay all court costs and attorney fees of the Town Attorney
should the town prevail.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Person found to have violated this chapter shall pay a fine in the amount
listed below.
Reference First Offense Second Offense Third Offense
Reference                                       First   Second  Third Offense
                                                Offense Offense
§                                                             
91.02
   Animal at large                           $250    $400    $500
   Interference with authorized officials’ $500    $1,000  $1,500
duties
   Ownership of dangerous dog or wild animal $500    $1,000  $1,500
   Public nuisance                           $250    $400    $500
   Violation of food, drink, and shelter     $350    $500    $750
   Violation of potentially dangerous dog    $350    $500    $750
§
91.03
   Violation of tethering                    $250    $500    $750
 
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-6-2022)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION; BURNING
Section
   
92.01   Burning trash and other material
   
92.02   Fire limits
   
92.03   Fireworks; restrictions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see §
31.16
§ 92.01 BURNING TRASH AND OTHER MATERIAL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to burn trash or any other materials
after the hours of 6:00 p.m. and before the hours of 6:00 a.m., local
prevailing time, in the town.
   (B)   During the hours of between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., it is permissible
to burn the following combustible materials: paper, cartons, boxes, wood, and
tree branches.
   (C)   Between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., it is permissible to
burn dry leaves so long as the leaves are not burned on the streets of the
town. Leaves must be burned on private property and may not necessarily be
burned in a secure container.
   (D)   Except for burning of leaves, all other fires which are permitted
shall be in a secured container where sparks or flames shall not be an
immediate threat to any adjoining property owner. At all times when burning is
conducted whether in an enclosed container or not, fires shall be attended at
all times by a responsible person who has caused the fire to be made.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to burn non-combustible trash at any time. It is
further unlawful to allow a fire to smolder.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 1-8-2001) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   The fire limits of the town shall consist of that part of the town
bounded as follows: beginning at the intersection of Howard and Main Streets,
thence running due north to the intersection of North and Main Streets, thence
due east to the intersection of North and Deer Creek Streets, thence due south
to the center of Howard Street, thence due west to the point of beginning and
it shall not be lawful for any person to erect, move, or build any or frame
building within such limits, except as may be provided by this section.
   (B)   Within the fire limits of said town as set out in division (A) above,
it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to locate, build, or move any
building or whatever character or addition unless all the outer walls are
constructed of brick, stone or concrete, metal, gravel, tile or slate roof and
with a fire wall of not less than 12 inches in thickness of brick, stone or
concrete, extending and through the roof the entire length of the building on
lines between adjoining properties whenever buildings touch or are joined
together except as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Any person desiring to erect any wooden out building on the rear end
of a lot which said outbuildings are to be appurtenances to the property on
said lot within the limits prescribed in division (A) above shall present a
petition to the Council members describing the place of construction and the
purpose for which such use is to be used when constructed and a complete
diagram of the building of the contiguous lots, upon which the Council members
may grant to erect such building, when such building is completed, it must
things conform to the averments of said petition, provided that this section
shall not apply to the building of residence property on within the said fire
limit which are now occupied by residence but which may become vacant after the
passage of this section.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-1-1907) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions on use and type of fireworks.
      (1)   The use of fireworks, consumer or commercial, which produce bangs
and/or pops and/or whistles in excess of normal fire burning or sparks,
excepting therefrom sparklers, snap-pops, and party poppers, within the town
limits shall be limited and restricted as follows:
         (a)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on July 1 through
July 7;
         (b)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on Memorial Day,
July 4, and Labor Day;
         (c)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. on December 31;
and
         (d)   Any other time authorized by the Town Council in writing.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the local Fire Chief, State
Fire Marshal, the Town Marshal, or any duly authorized law enforcement official
from further restricting or prohibiting the use of fireworks during the
aforementioned periods of time for any weather related or public safety
reasons.
   (B)   Restrictions on locations for use of fireworks. The use of any
fireworks shall be restricted to the property owned and or leased by citizens
of the town and their guests. Fireworks shall not be used on any public
property of the town, including but not limited to, public streets, public
sidewalks, alleys, parks, or public rights-of-way. Any person discharging any
firework, whether during authorized time periods or not, shall be responsible
for any and all damages or injuries which may result from the use of those
fireworks.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 8-5-2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
92.01 commits a Class C misdemeanor. In lieu of formal court proceedings, a law
enforcement officer may issue a citation by the Town Marshal. Such citation
shall impose a penalty of $50 which may, at the discretion of the cited person
(s) or business(es), be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office within 72
hours in full satisfaction of the assessed penalty. This penalty shall increase
by $25 for each subsequent offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who lights or otherwise discharges any restricted
firework(s) during any prohibited time period shall be in violation of §
92.03, and may be issued a citation by the Town Marshal or any duly authorized
law enforcement official. The penalty for the first violation shall be $100.
The penalty for the second violation shall be $200. The penalty for the third
violation shall be $400, and shall double for each subsequent violation
thereafter. The aforementioned fine shall be payable to the General Fund of the
town.
      (2)   Any person issued a citation for a violation of §
92.03 may appeal the issuance of the citation by providing written notice to
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office no later than 30 days after the issuance date of
the citation. The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the Town Council and place the
request for an appeal on the agenda of the next Town Council meeting where the
Town Council by majority vote, shall determine the validity of the citation
after presentation of relevant evidence.
      (3)   Any violation that remains unpaid for a period of ten days after
the date of issue (or ten days after the Town Council determination of validity
if appeal is requested) will result in a small claim filing against the
offender. In event of any small claims filing, the offender will be responsible
for any court costs together with reasonable attorney fees for the services of
the Town Attorney in bringing the action to collect the unpaid fine.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 1-8-2001; Ord. 2019-03, passed 8-5-2019)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Nuisances, generally
   
93.02   Butchering in public ways
Junk or Abandoned Vehicles
   
93.15   Administration
   
93.16   Definitions
   
93.17   Exceptions
   
93.18   Enforcement
   
93.19   Notification
   
93.20   Disposition of junk or abandoned vehicles; waiver
   
93.21   Liability
   
93.22   Disposition of funds received
Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
93.35   Required removal
   
93.36   Administration
   
93.37   Definition
   
93.38   Notice of violation
   
93.39   Appeal
   
93.40   Effect
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 NUISANCES, GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, company, or corporation
to erect, construct, cause, permit, keep, or maintain within the limits of said
town, anything whatsoever, which is injurious to health or indecent or
offensive to the senses of any of the inhabitants of said town, or any
obstruction to the free use of property by any such inhabitant, and any persons
or persons maintaining any nuisance above referred to is thereby declared to be
the author and mantainor of a nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, company, or corporation
to throw, deposit, or suffer to be thrown or deposited, or suffer or permit any
child, servant, members of the family, or any other person under his, her, or
their control, to throw or deposit any manure, human excrement, urine, rubbish,
slops, putrid or unsound vegetable, or any filthy, noisome, or unwholesome
liquid or slops or substances that are liable to become unwholesome, in or into
or upon any street, lane, alley, sidewalk, gutter, crossing, lot, cellar,
premises, or common. It shall be unlawful for anyone to allow rank weeds to
grow or to slaughter poultry or animals within the corporation of said town.
   (C)   All kitchens shall be provided within metal garbage receptacles, which
shall be tightly covered and emptied frequently enough to prevent fermentation
and bad odors; and garbage receptacles and vaults shall be cleaned, emptied,
and disinfected, and weeds shall be cut and hauled away at any time upon the
written order of the Health Officer. Said Health Officer shall fix a reasonable
time limit in his or her order, where said garbage receptacles or vaults shall
be emptied, cleaned, and disinfected and when weeds shall be cut and hauled
away. If any owner or lessee, being duly ordered, shall fail or refuse to obey
said order, it shall be the duty of the Town Marshal, upon notice from the
Health Officer, to cause the garbage receptacles and vaults to be cleaned,
emptied, and disinfected or the weeds to be cut and hauled away, and said Town
Marshal shall keep an accurate account of the expenses thereof, which shall be
paid from the town treasury upon the sworn voucher of the Town Marshal and said
expenses shall be a lien on the property and collected by law and turned into
the town treasury. It shall be unlawful to fill up vaults or sinks without
first emptying the same.
   (D)   The Secretary of the Town Board of Health, who is also the Town Health
Officer, and all Deputy Health Officers, and the Town Marshal and Deputies,
shall have full power and authority to enter into or upon any street, lot,
alley, premises, or grounds for the purpose of making a sanitary survey of the
same, and if a nuisance or any insanitary conditions are found, it shall be the
duty of the Town Health Officer, when informed of the existence of the same, to
immediately notify the person or persons so offending in writing, fixing the
time limit to abate the nuisance. If such person shall fail or refuse to abate
the nuisance within the time specified, it shall be the duty of the Town
Marshal upon notice of the Health Officer to cause the same to be abated,
keeping an accurate account of the expenses thereof, which shall be paid from
the town treasury upon the sworn voucher of the Town Marshal, and said expenses
shall be a lien on the property and collected as taxes are collected and turned
into the town treasury.
   (E)   If, at any time, the work of the prevention of the spread of
infections or contagious disease is more than can be reasonable expected of the
Town Health Officer, he or she may, with the consent of the President of the
Town Council, employ one or more intelligent men or women to act as deputies to
establish a quarantine, remove patients to the special hospital and conduct
disinfections. All houses where infections or contagious diseases may exist or
have existed, shall, at the proper time, be thoroughly disinfected by
formaldehyde, according to the rules of the State Board of Health, by the
Health Officer or his or her deputies at the expense of the town, as the work
is obviously for the benefit of the people. A complete record of all
disinfections, all vaccinations and all other work done shall be kept by the
Health Officer in the minute book of the Board of Health.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal at all times to aid the
Health Officer in the work of enforcing this section upon the demand of said
Health Officer.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-15-1912) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 BUTCHERING IN PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Within the town boundaries, it shall be unlawful for a person to kill,
slaughter, butcher, clean, dress, or otherwise prepare wild game and/or
domestic livestock for human consumption or for any other purpose within sight
of a public street, alley, or thoroughfare.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit an individual/person from killing and/
or destroying such animal referenced above for the purpose of protecting human
life or welfare or protect against damage to personal property.
(Ord. 2-2015, passed - -2015) Penalty, see §
93.99
JUNK OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 93.15 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Council shall be responsible for the administration of this
subchapter, while the Town Marshal be responsible for said chapter’s
enforcement, as authorized by I.C. 9-22-1-3.
(Ord. 4-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 93.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle is ABANDONED if it is:
         (a)   A mechanically inoperable vehicle or a vehicle that does not
possess valid license plates/registration;
         (b)   Left on private property for 20 days; and
         (c)   At least three years old.
      (2)   Included in this definition are automobiles, trucks, trailers,
semitrailers, recreational vehicles, or parts thereto.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Junked or wrecked automobiles, trucks, trailers, semitrailers,
recreational vehicles, or parts thereto, that are worn, deteriorated, or
obsolete as to make them unusable in their existing condition. JUNK is also
defined pursuant to I.C. 8-23-1-26.
(Ord. 4-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 93.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the Armed Forces of
the United States, who is on active duty;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sales lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as a scrapyard; or
   (E)   A vehicle licensed as an antique.
(Ord. 4-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-1
§ 93.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A mechanically inoperable vehicle that meets the qualifications
outlined in §
93.16 is considered a junk or abandoned vehicle and is subject to this
subchapter.
   (B)   A person who owns a junk or abandoned vehicle or parts thereto is:
      (1)   Responsible for the vehicle; and
      (2)   Liable for all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and
disposal.
(Ord. 4-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-4
§ 93.19 NOTIFICATION.
   The Town Marshal shall notify the Bureau of Motor Vehicles within 72 hours
of all action taken incidental to the removal and storage of the vehicle. If
the person who owns the vehicle cannot be determined by a search by the Bureau
of Motor Vehicles, it shall be declared an abandoned vehicle and disposed of in
accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 4-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-1
§ 93.20 DISPOSITION OF JUNK OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; WAIVER.
   (A)   When the Town Marshal discovers a vehicle in the possession of a
person other than the person who owns the vehicle and the person cannot
establish the right to possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to
and stored in a suitable place. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall be notified
within 72 hours of the location and description of the vehicle. Upon receipt of
the notification, the Bureau shall cause a search to be made to determine and
notify the person who owns the vehicle. If the person who owns a vehicle cannot
be determined by a search, the Bureau shall declare the vehicle abandoned and
provide for disposal. If the properly identified person who owns or holds a
lien on a vehicle appears at the site or storage before disposal of the vehicle
or parts and pays all costs incurred against the vehicle or parts at that time,
the vehicle or parts shall be released. The release must state the name,
signature, and address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, a
description of the vehicle or parts, costs, and date of release. A towing
operator shall notify the Bureau of all releases. If the person who owns or
holds a lien does not appear and pay all costs, the Bureau shall declare the
vehicle abandoned and provide for disposal.
   (B)   (1)   When the Town Marshal finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts
believed to be abandoned, he or she shall attach in a prominent place a notice
tag containing the following information:
         (a)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
         (b)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
         (c)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
         (d)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
         (e)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 72 hours
      (2)   If a vehicle or a part tagged, is not removed within the 72-hour
period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report or the
vehicle or parts, including information on the condition, missing parts, and
other facts that might substantiate the estimated market value of the vehicle
or parts. Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle
or parts. If, in the opinion of the Town Marshal, the market value of an
abandoned vehicle or parts is/are less than $100, the Town Marshal, before
placing a notice tag on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to
ascertain the person who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of
the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours, the Town Marshal shall require the
vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage area.
   (C)   (1)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on the
person’s rental property shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag
containing the following information:
         (a)   The date, time, name, and address of the person who owns the
rental property and a telephone number or contact for information;
         (b)   The vehicle is considered abandoned;
         (c)   The vehicle will be removed after 72 hours;
         (d)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
         (e)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
      (2)   If after 72 hours the person who owns the vehicle believed to be
abandoned on rental property has not removed the vehicle from the rental
property, the person who owns the rental property may have the vehicle towed
from the rental property. The towing operator shall do the following:
         (a)   Contact the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to obtain the name and
address of the person who owns the vehicle;
         (b)   Deliver, by certified mail, a copy of the information contained
in the notice required to the person who owns the vehicle. The notice required
by this subdivision must be given not later than five business days after the
vehicle is removed.
      (3)   In an emergency situation a vehicle may be removed immediately. As
used in this division (C)(3), EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the presence of
the abandoned vehicle interferes physically with the conduct of normal business
operations of the owner of the rental property or poses a threat to the safety
or security of persons or property, or both.
   (D)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, the Town Marshal shall
follow the procedures set forth in division (B) above.
   (E)   The waiver for removing junk or abandoned vehicles from private
property is as follows:
   WAIVER
Property address where vehicle is located:
_______________________________________
Date:_____________________
 
Description of vehicle:
Make: _________________      Model: __________________________
VIN: __________________      Year: ___________________________
   I hereby certify that I am the owner of the above referenced property and
that I am not the legal owner of the vehicle described above; and that this
vehicle has remained on my property for a period exceeding 48 hours.
   I authorize the Town of Galveston, or its designated agent, to enter onto my
property and remove the vehicle, hereinabove described, after the 72-hour
notice period has expired.
   I agree to indemnify, defend, exculpate, and hold harmless the Town of
Galveston from any liability due to loss, damage, or injuries or whatsoever
kind, or by whosoever caused the person or property of anyone on the premises
arising out of, or resulting from the removal of the vehicle from my property.
___________________________________
Property owner of agent of property
__________________________________
Print name
__________________________________
Address of property owner/agent
__________________________________
Phone number of owner/agent
(Ord. 4-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-5 through 21
§ 93.21 LIABILITY.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage, or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases, or occupies property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed;
   (B)   A public agency;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; or
   (F)   An agent of a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(Ord. 4-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-32
§ 93.22 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS RECEIVED.
   (A)   The Town Council has established the following procedures to carry out
this subchapter, including the following;
      (1)   The charges allowed for the towing and storage of abandoned
vehicles, which shall be filed with the Bureau of Motor Vehicles; and
      (2)   The means of disposition of vehicles.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes an Abandoned Vehicle Fund for the
purposes of this subchapter.
   (C)   This subchapter applies to sales of abandoned vehicles or parts. The
proceeds from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts, including:
      (1)   Charges for bills of sales; and
       (2)   Money received from persons who own or hold liens on vehicles for
the cost of removal or storage of vehicles; shall be deposited with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and placed by the Town Clerk-Treasurer in the Abandoned Vehicle
Fund.
   (D)   The costs incurred by the town in administering this subchapter shall
be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
   (E)   The fiscal body shall annually appropriate sufficient money to the
fund to carry out this subchapter. Money remaining in the fund at the end of a
year remains in the fund and does not revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. 4-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-27 and 9-22-1-30
WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 93.35 REQUIRED REMOVAL.
   (A)   Owners of real property located within the town are required to cut
and remove weeds and other rank vegetation growing on their property.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for owners of real property
located within the town to fail to cut or remove weeds and other rank
vegetation growing on their property.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 9-11-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Department (hereinafter, “the Department”) responsible for the
administration of this subchapter shall be the Town Marshal, Code Enforcement
officer, or other town employee(s) so designated by the Town Council.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 93.37 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION. Does not include agricultural crops, such
as hay and pasture, but does include the following:
      (1)   Noxious weeds, including Canada thistle, Johnson grass, Columbus
grass, Bur cucumber, and Shattercane, as defined in I.C. 15-16-7-2, and
detrimental plants, including Canada thistle, Johnson grass, Columbus grass,
Bur cucumber, and Shattercane, as defined in I.C. 15-16-8-1;
      (2)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation with less
than 14 feet clearance over, along and across streets or alleyways, or less
than eight feet clearance over, along, or across the sidewalks;
      (3)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation that prevent
adequate visibility at street and alley intersections, or, which block the view
of any street or traffic sign, signal, or device;
      (4)   Shrubbery or vegetation in excess of three feet in height within a
radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any street intersects
the curb line of another street;
      (5)   Unmowed grasses or other vegetation in excess of eight inches in
height and any other plant; weed or rank vegetation over eight inches in
height;
      (6)   Trees, shrubs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation which
interferes with street lights or the convenient maintenance of street lights,
or obstructs the light from street lights;
      (7)   Any trees, shrubbery, or unauthorized vegetation planted within the
public right-of-way of any street, alley, or public way;
      (8)   Trees, limbs, branches, shrubbery, or other vegetation which
creates or constitutes a hazard to the pedestrians, persons passing by, or the
public;
      (9)   Grass clippings, mowed grass, mowed leaves, mowed debris cast, or
blown onto, or into, the town’s streets, curbs, or alleys;
      (10)   Any trash, including, but not limited to, appliances, furniture,
or rubbish of any kind supporting weeds or rank vegetation growth; or
      (11)   Any vegetation which may be harmful, hazardous, poisonous, or
odorous, or, which may breed insects or draw vermin.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 93.38 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any owner in the real property found to be violating this subchapter
shall be given a written violation notice thereof, issued by the Department,
which notice, together with a copy of this subchapter, shall be served by
personal service, service by USPS certified mail, regular mail, any other
manner of service recognized under I.C. 1-1-7-1, or recognized under the State
Rules of Trial Procedure, to:
      (1)   The owner of record of real property with a single owner; or
      (2)   At least one of the owners of real property with multiple owners;
or at the last address of the owner for the property as indicated in the
records of the county as indicated on the date of the notice.
   (B)   The failure on the part of a property owner to receive or collect mail
shall not serve as a defense to any abatement action; or any action to collect
for the cost of abatement, administrative costs, or fines unless otherwise
permitted under law.
   (C)   The real property owner shall have 72 hours from the date the above-
referenced notice is sent to take the necessary corrective actions or measures
to comply with this subchapter.
   (D)   The notice shall also inform the real property owner that; in the
event the real property owner fails to abate the violation and the town is
required to take whatever action is set forth in the notice:
      (1)   The town, or its contractors, may enter the real property to abate
a violation of this subchapter resulting in a bill becoming owed by the real
property owner;
      (2)   The bill incurred by the town for the costs incurred by the town in
abating the violation, including administrative costs provided by town
ordinance, and removal costs, shall be billed to the real property owner;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided, if the owner of the real .property
fails to pay the bill issued by the town within 30 days, the Department shall
certify to the County Auditor the amount of the bill, plus any additional
administrative costs incurred in the certification. The auditor shall place the
total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the property affected. The
total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be collected in the manner
that delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund
of the town; and
      (4)   If the owner of the real property fails to pay a bill issued within
the time specified in this subchapter, the town may bring an action in an
appropriate court to collect the amount of the bill, plus any additional costs
incurred in the collection, including court costs and reasonable attorney’s
fees. If the town obtains a judgment, the town may obtain a lien in the amount
of the judgment on any real or personal property of the owner.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-3(d), if the written violation notice was
provided by certified mail, first class mail, or equivalent service, a
continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time of
abatement. A continuous abatement notice serves as notice to the landowner that
each subsequent violation during the same year for which the initial notice of
the violation was provided may be abated by the town or its contractors.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 93.39 APPEAL.
   (A)   The owner may appeal any written violation notice or bill to the Town
Council; provided, written notice of appeal is served by the owner on the Town
Council within the time period contained in the violation notice. The timely
appeal of a violation notice shall toll the abatement period pending the
issuance of a decision by the Town Council. Service of the notice of appeal
shall be made to the Town Marshal, or an otherwise provided in the written
violation notice.
   (B)   The Town Council shall hear any timely requested appeal of a written
violation notice or bill within 30 calendar days following receipt and shall
promptly issue a written decision granting or denying, in whole or in part, the
appeal. The date which said decision is served on the owner shall become the
first calendar date for any abatement or payment period, if applicable.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 93.40 EFFECT.
   (A)   This subchapter supplements and does not limit any other remedy or
action available in law or in equity regarding the subject matter hereof.
   (B)   This subchapter, pursuant to I.C. 36-2-4-8, shall be in force and
effect in accordance with state law, upon its passage by the Town Council and
following any required publication and applicable waiting period.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
93.01 and
93.35 through
93.40 shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   First violation in a calendar year: $25;
      (2)   Second violation in a calendar year: $50; and
      (3)   Third violation in a calendar year: $100.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-15-1912; Ord. 2014-7, passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 17-03, passed 9-
11-2017)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
94.01   Cleaning gutters and sides of streets
   
94.02   Roller skates on cement sidewalks
   
94.03   Encumbrance of streets, alleys, and other public ways
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 CLEANING GUTTERS AND SIDES OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the property owners to clean, in May and
August of each year, all gutters and sides of streets adjoining any property of
dirt, weeds, grass, or any other materials that may be unhealthy or unsightly.
   (B)   Upon the failure of any property owner to perform such work within the
time specified, then it shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to have such work
as remains unfinished completed and the costs charged upon the tax duplicate
against the adjoining real estate.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal of said town to notify the
property owner, his or her agent, or the party occupying said premises in
writing between April 1 and 15 and July 1 and 15 of each year following the
passage of this section of the work necessary to be done for the health,
comfort, and appearance of said town as required by this section.
(Ord. 22, passed 1-23-1905)
§ 94.02 ROLLER SKATES ON CEMENT SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to ride, propel, or skate
with roller skates upon any cement or brick sidewalk in the town; provided,
that this section shall not apply to any persons crossing any sidewalk by way
of egress or ingress to or from private premises.
(Ord. 41, passed 4-12-1915) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 ENCUMBRANCE OF STREETS, ALLEYS, AND OTHER PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or corporation to
encumber or obstruct any one of the streets, alleys, or other public grounds of
the town, or any part of any street, alley, or other public grounds of said
town, with any vehicle, engine, or other machinery, substance, or material of
any kind whatsoever, or excavation interfering with the free use of the same or
to encumber any of the streets, alleys, and other public grounds of the town,
by depositing thereon, or by depositing on any part of any street, alley, or
other public grounds of the town any quantity of petroleum, naptha, benzine,
gasoline, crude oil, and its products and other inflammable explosives, and
burning oils and fluids, powder, or dynamite, without first procuring a permit
from the Town Council to do so; providing that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to merchandise, wood, coal, or other material temporarily
placed not exceeding five hours on the said street, alley, and other public
grounds for the purpose of being loaded or while being unloaded.
   (B)   Any person desiring to encumber or obstruct any street, alley, and
other public grounds of the town or any part of any street, alley, and other
public grounds of the town as defined in division (A) above shall first show to
the Council members of the town the necessity for such encumbrance or
obstruction of the street, alley, and other public grounds of the town or any
part of any street, alley, and other public grounds of the town to be so
encumbered or obstructed. Where a reasonable necessity exists for such
encumbrance or obstruction, it shall be the duty of the Council member to grant
permission therefor provided, that any such person, persons, or corporation
obtaining such permission to obstruct or encumber said street, alley, and other
public grounds of the town, or any part of any street, alley, and other public
grounds of the town, shall first indemnify the town against any damage of any
kind whatsoever accruing therefrom in any sum to be designated by the Town
Council.
   (C)   Where permission is granted by the town as provided for in division
(B) above to any person, persons, or corporation to encumber or obstruct any
street, alley, and other public grounds of the town, or any part of any street,
alley, and other public grounds of the town, it shall be the duty of such
person, persons, or corporation to fence or otherwise enclose such part of
parts of any street, alley, and other public grounds of the town, or such parts
of any street, alley, or other public grounds of the town, so encumbered or
obstructed. It shall be the duty of any person, persons, or corporation so
encumbering or obstructing any street, alley, and other public grounds of the
town, or any part of the any street, alley, and other public grounds of the
town, to cause one or more red lights to be securely and conspicuously posted
at or upon any excavation or obstruction, stationing one of such lights at each
end of the space so encumbered or obstructed. If such space exceeds 50 feet in
length or breadth, such person shall place additional lights at intervals of 50
feet or less, and such persons, persons, or corporation shall maintain and
continue the burning of the aforesaid lights from dark in the evening until
daylight next morning, during each night such excavation or obstruction shall
be allowed to remain.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to ride or drive any
motorcycle, bicycle, or other vehicle or animal on any cement sidewalk within
the corporate limits of the town except in the necessary act of crossing the
same.
(Ord. 38, passed 6-2-1913) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
94.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, upon conviction thereof, and
shall be fined not less than $1 nor more than $3 which cost of prosecution
added.
   (C)   Any person, persons, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
§
94.03 shall, upon conviction, be fined for each offense in the sum of $10
together with the cost of prosecution.
(Ord. 38, passed 6-2-1913; Ord. 41, passed 4-12-1915)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Closing time for town parks
   
95.02   Cleo Metcalf Memorial Community Center
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Board of Parks and Recreation, see §
31.17
§ 95.01 CLOSING TIME FOR TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or vehicle to be upon the town parks’
property during the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., local prevailing time,
in the town.
   (B)   Exception will be made to allow maintenance by authorized individuals,
organized sports activities as recognized by the Town Council, and for special
events with prior approval.
   (C)   The Town Council will cause signs to be erected at all entrances
notifying the general public of this section and its penalties in both the
English and Spanish languages.
   (D)   The Town Marshal, his or her deputies, or any law enforcement officer
will cause all persons and/or vehicles not included in the exceptions to be
removed during the hours stated. If a vehicle should be unoccupied and the
driver having not been found, the vehicle will be ordered removed and the owner
shall bear all costs associated with its removal.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 CLEO METCALF MEMORIAL COMMUNITY CENTER.
   (A)   Rental fee and damage deposit. The rental fee for the community center
shall be assessed at $150 per day with a damage deposit of $50.
   (B)   Rules and regulations. The following rules and regulation shall be
observed by any person renting the community center (“applicant”) and any
guests of any person renting the community center (“guests”).
      (1)   Applicants must be at least 21 years of age and possess a valid
picture ID to rent the community center. A copy of the applicant’s valid
picture ID must be included with the applicant’s rental application.
      (2)   The community center is available from 8:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m.
on the day of rental.
      (3)   No smoking is permitted anywhere in the community center or on the
park grounds.
      (4)   No alcoholic beverages are permitted in the community center or on
the park grounds. Applicants who anticipate the service of alcoholic beverages
during their rental and the applicant’s licensed vendor, must be approved, in
writing, by the Park Board.
      (5)   Applicants and guests may not leave food, drink, or waste in the
community center.
      (6)   Applicants and guests may not cause any items to be affixed on or
in the walls or woodwork of the community center. Breach of this provision by
applicants or guests will result in the forfeiture of the applicant’s damage
deposit.
      (7)   Animals are not allowed inside the community center, except service
animals as defined by state law.
      (8)   The town shall not assess admission fees for any function in the
community center or on the park grounds. Applicants and guests may assess
admissions fees, which are the sole responsibility of the applicant or guests.
      (9)   Live music is not allowed on the park grounds without prior Park
Board authorization.
      (10)   Paper towels, dish rags, dish towels, or potholders are not
furnished by the community center.
      (11)   Community center furnishings, including, but not limited to,
tables and chairs, may not be taken outside the community center.
   (C)   Process for application and use. The following process for application
and use shall be observed by any applicant renting the Cleo Metcalf Memorial
Community Center and any guests of any applicant renting the Cleo Metcalf
Memorial Community Center.
      (1)   Applications shall be available at the Galveston Town Hall, 306
South California Street, Galveston, Indiana.
      (2)   An application form, rent payment, and deposit shall be presented
to the town hall prior to booking the community center. The applicant is
responsible for updating their application at any time said application
changes.
      (3)   Cancellations must be made through the town hall within 48 hours of
your scheduled rental. Deposits are non-refundable unless the community center
is re-rented for the dates of your cancellation.
      (4)   The community center’s front door key is available at the town hall
at 574-699-6664 Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. upon 48 hours’
notice to the town hall. The community center key must be returned to the town
hall during normal business hours or deposited in drop box on the east side of
the town hall within 24 hours of renting the center. Failure to return the
community center key will result in the forfeiture of the applicant’s damage
deposit.
      (5)   Questions regarding building cleanliness may be directed to the
town hall at 574-699-6664.
      (6)   The applicant is responsible for setting up, taking down, and
wiping off all tables and chairs. Failure to abide by this provision will
result in the forfeiture of the applicant’s deposit.
      (7)   The applicant is responsible for clean up any food spills, wash
used kitchen utensils, and trash disposal.
      (8)   The applicant may adjust either of the two community center
thermostats. One thermostat at the south end of the building and the other is
in the middle of the main room. The applicant is responsible for ensuring the
south thermostat is set to: winter at 55 degrees and summer at 80 degrees. The
applicant is responsible for ensuring the middle thermostat should be set at:
winter 60 degrees and summer at 80 degrees.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
95.01 shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   First violation in a calendar year: $25;
      (2)   Second violation in a calendar year: $50; and
      (3)   Third violation in a calendar year: $100.
   (B)   In lieu of arrest for the first offense, the violator may be issued a
citation by any law enforcement officer. Such citation shall impose upon the
violator a penalty which may, at the discretion of the violator, be paid to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office within 72 hours in full satisfaction of the
assessed penalty.
   (C)   Enforcement of this chapter may be by lawsuit initiated in the name of
the town by the Town Attorney or by prosecution under the laws of the state
where applicable. In the event it is necessary to file such a lawsuit, the
defendant shall pay all reasonable attorney fees to the Town Attorney in the
event the town should prevail.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 2014-7, passed 6-2-2014)
CHAPTER 96: TREES
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Authority
   
96.04   Tree planting
   
96.05   Obstruction
   
96.06   Nuisance and condemnation
   
96.07   Appeals
   
96.08   Interference
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the planting,
maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants within the town.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed - -)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LARGE TREES. Trees attaining a height of 45 feet or more.
   PARK. All public parks having individual names.
   TREE LAWN. The part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk or other
paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street or
highway usually used for vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed - -)
§ 96.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Planning Commission shall have the authority and jurisdiction of
regulating the removal of trees planted illegally within the street or highway
or alley right-of-way.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed - -)
§ 96.04 TREE PLANTING.
   (A)   No tree or shrub shall be planted within the street or highway or
alley right-of-way.
   (B)   All trees and shrubs planted on private property, which have branches
overhanging a public street or alley or sidewalk, shall have said branches
trimmed to a clearance height of 14 feet on the street side and ten feet on the
sidewalk side.
   (C)   All trees planted on private property shall be planted a minimum ten
feet from the right-of-way or property line.
   (D)   All shrubs planted on private property shall be planted a minimum five
feet from the right-of-way or property line.
   (E)   All public trees designated for removal shall be completely removed
from the growing site and disposed of in an authorized manner.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying real
property bordering on any street upon which property there may be trees,
shrubs, or tall grasses to prune such trees in a manner that they will not
obstruct or shade the street lights, obstruct the passage of pedestrians on
sidewalks, obstruct vision of traffic signs, or obstruct view of any street or
alley intersection. The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof
shall be ten feet over sidewalks and 14 feet over all streets.
When a person to whom an order is directed shall fail to comply within the
specified time, it shall be lawful for the town to prune such trees, shrubs, or
tall grasses with the cost assessed to the owner as provided by law in special
assessments.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 NUISANCE AND CONDEMNATION.
   All street trees planted in violation of, or not maintained in strict
compliance with, the provisions of this chapter, or that are dead or dangerous,
are declared to constitute a public nuisance. The Planning Commission shall
cause written notice to be served on the property owner requiring such
nuisances to be corrected within 30 days or the cost of correction will be
assessed against the property owner.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed - -)
§ 96.07 APPEALS.
   Any person who receives an order form the Planning Commission and objects to
all or a part thereof, may, within eight days of receipt thereof, notify the
Planning Commission and Town Council, in writing, of the nature of the
objection and request a hearing thereon. The hearing shall be held within eight
days of notice to the appellant. Within eight days after such hearing, the
Planning Department shall notify the appellant and the Planning Commission of
the final decision.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed - -)
§ 96.08 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall prevent, delay, or interfere with the Planning Commission in
the execution or enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed - -)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating or failing to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be fined a sum no less than $1, nor more
than $5,000.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed - -)
CHAPTER 97: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
97.01   Policy statement
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Unlawful practice
   
97.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
97.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
97.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
97.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
97.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
97.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
97.10   Exemptions
   
97.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 97.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its town limits as provided for under
the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 through 3619, as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-8.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
97.04 through
97.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such FAMILY being
further defined in the definition of FAMILIAL STATUS.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP. 
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and/or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. 21 § 802, 910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite, 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal
representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C.,
receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -)
§ 97.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
97.09 , and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
97.04  shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
97.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented
as follows:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
97.04(A)(3), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
97.03, and except as exempted by §§
97.03(B) and
97.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; and/or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as (ANSI A117.l)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(c)3. above.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
97.03 through
97.06.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether acting under code or law, by force or threat of force
willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state, and federal law.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -)
§ 97.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -)
§ 97.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Official of
the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town, or the Chief Elected
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
112.   HAWKERS; PEDDLERS; TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Alcoholic beverages; liquor retailer permit
   
110.02   Pool rooms, bowling alleys, and the like
   
110.03   Shows, circuses, and the like
   
110.04   Auctions
   
110.05   Farmers’ Market
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR RETAILER PERMIT.
   The consent of said town be and the same is given and granted unto the
proper legal authorities, to issue liquor retailer’s permits for the alcoholic,
spirituous beverages to applicants otherwise qualified to premises within said
town, all agreeable provisions of § 18 of an Act of the state, concerning
beverages, liquids, and substances, and to promote the repealing laws and parts
of laws and declaring an emergency approved March 11, 1935.
(Ord. 61, passed 2-6-1961)
§ 110.02 POOL ROOMS, BOWLING ALLEYS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who shall keep for pay or hire any
poolroom, billiard room, bowling alley, nine-pin alley, or ten-pin alley to
suffer or allow any minors to loiter in said room or participate in any game
played therein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep for pay or hire within the corporate
limits of the town any pool table, billiard table, bowling alley, nine-pin
alley, ten-pin alley, or any other machine or device for sports or games,
without first procuring a license from the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to keep for pay or
hire any pool table, billiard table, bowling alley, nine-pin alley, or ten-pin
alley or any other machine or device for sport or game within the corporate
limits of said town, shall pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, the sum of $60 for
the first table for pool or billiards, $20 for the second, and $8 for the third
or each additional pool table or billiard table above two (so kept and used),
and the sum of $50 for each bowling alley, nine-pin alley, ten-pin alley, or
each other machine or device, as a license fee therefor, for which amount the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to said applicant his or her receipt, which
receipt together with a written application for such license, naming the kind
of game or device and if pool tables or billiard tables, stating the number of
tables to be used or kept and specifically describing the room and the precise
location of the premises in which tables or devices are to be kept or used,
signed by said applicant, shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer of said
town before license shall be issued to him or her. The Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue to said applicant a license to keep or use for pay or hire, the
table, tables, machine, or device set forth in the aforesaid application;
provided, no license shall be issued for a shorter or longer period than one
year from the date of said Town Clerk-Treasurer’s receipt and provided further,
that said license shall not be transferable.
   (D)   Any person or persons not being licensed according to the provisions
of this section, who shall within the corporate limits of said town, keep or
use for pay or hire, a pool table or billiard table, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in the sum of $60 for the first, $20 second, and $8 for the
third or each additional pool table, above two so kept and used, together with
the costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 25, passed 1-23-1905; Ord. 39, passed 9-21-1914) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 SHOWS, CIRCUSES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to exhibit for gain or
profit in the town any show of puppets, wax figures, circus, menagerie,
caravan, acrobatic performance, legerdemain, side show, or hippodrome, without
license.
   (B)   Licenses shall be granted by the Town Clerk-Treasurer upon application
for any of the purposes aforesaid, upon the payment into the town treasury as
follows:
      (1)   For each circus, menagerie, caravan, or hippodrome: $10 for each
day;
      (2)   For each other purpose set out: $3 for each day; and
      (3)   Said application shall be accompanied by the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s
receipt.
(Ord. 31, passed 1-16-1905) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 AUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell goods, wares, merchandise,
or any manufactured article at auctions, in the streets, stores, shops, or
elsewhere in the said town except it be a legal sale, without first obtaining
license therefor.
   (B)   Any person desiring to sell such goods at public auction in said town,
shall pay the Town Marshal the license fee of not less than $3 nor more than
$10 for the first day and $2 for each succeeding day, which shall include the
night following.
(Ord. 14, passed 1-25-1905) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 FARMERS’ MARKET.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FARMERS’ MARKET. The area set aside for the use of persons selling food
products, plant materials, and artisan goods produced primarily by themselves.
   (B)   Established. The grounds of the Galveston Park, at 101 S. Park,
Galveston, Indiana, or parts thereof as designated by the Town Park Board, is
set apart as a Farmers’ Market at specified times during the year.
   (C)   Supervision. The Farmers’ Market shall be under the supervision of the
Town Park Board, who may enter into contractual agreements to designate others
to act on its behalf. The Town Park Board and/or its contractual
representatives hereinafter “Market Manager” shall, in consideration of the
advice of the Farmers’ Market participants, establish and enforce all rules and
regulations relative to the Farmers’ Market; and shall promptly remove or cause
to be removed any person who is disorderly or who refuses to obey any rule or
regulation made for the management or conduct of the Farmers’ Market.
   (D)   Time of use. The Farmers’ Market shall be occupied and operated from
May 15 through October 15 of each year, on Thursday from 4:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
and/or Saturdays from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. each week, at times to be
determined by the Town Park Board. Parking is prohibited to anyone other than
the holder of the Farmers’ Market space(s) as assigned by the Market Manager or
its designee on the days and times established above. Removal of an
unauthorized vehicle by police impoundment is to be upon complaint of a town
official or the Farmers’ Market Manager or its designee, and shall be
enforceable beginning one hour prior to opening of the Farmers’ Market on days
as specified above.
   (E)   Vendor fees. For the inaugural year, fees will be $10 per session or
$150 for the entire season. The annual fee must be paid by May 1. Booth space
will be ten feet by ten feet. The fees will be adjusted the following years.
   (F)   Animals prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to bring unleashed
pets or other live animals in the Farmer’s Market. The Market Manager or its
designee has the power to remove or have removed all such animals. Farm animals
or other show animals are permitted in the Farmers’ Market for demonstration
purposes only; provided, they are kept in an enclosed area and away from
contact with the rest of the Farmers’ Market.
   (G)   Location of vehicles, tables, displays, and products. Vendors shall
place their vehicles, tables, displays, and products as determined by the
Market Manager or its designee.
   (H)   Scales and weights. Every person who shall offer for sale, at the
Farmers’ Market, any article by weight or measure shall have all scales,
weights, and measures properly examined, tested, stamped, and sealed.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-9-2023) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
110.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not less than $5 nor more
than $25 together with costs of prosecution.
      (2)   Any person or persons not being licensed according to §
110.02, who shall within the corporate limits of the town, keep or use for pay
or hire, a bowling alley, nine-pin alley, ten-pin alley, or any other machine
or device for sport or game, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in the
sum of $50 together with the cost of prosecution.
   (C)   Any person violating or assisting in violating §
110.03, or neglecting or refusing to conform thereto, shall, upon conviction,
be fined in any sum not less than $5 nor more than $10 and the costs of
prosecution for each offense.
   (D)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
110.04 shall be fined in any sum not less than $5 nor more than $10 and costs
of prosecution for each offense.
(Ord. 14, passed 1-25-1905; Ord. 25, passed 1-23-1905; Ord. 31, passed 1-16-
1905; Ord. 39, passed 9-21-1914)
CHAPTER 111: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Purpose and intent
   
111.02   Definitions
Permit Requirements
   
111.15   Permit required
   
111.16   Investigation and application
   
111.17   Issuance of permit
   
111.18   Annual permit fee
   
111.19   Inspection
   
111.20   Expiration of permit
   
111.21   Suspension of permit
   
111.22   Revocation of permit
   
111.23   Judicial review of permit; denial, suspension, or revocation
   
111.24   Transfer of permit
Conditions
   
111.35   Employee license
   
111.36   Prohibitions regarding minors
   
111.37   Hours of operation
   
111.38   Nudity
   
111.39   Live entertainment
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the potentially adverse
secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses and related activities to
promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the
town, and to establish reasonable, informed, and content-neutral regulations to
prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by the distributors and exhibitor of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of
this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene materials.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT CABARET. A building or portion of a building regularly featuring
dancing and other live entertainment if the dancing or entertainment that
constitutes the primary live entertainment is distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on the exhibiting of specific sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MEDIA. Magazines, books, videotapes, movies, slides, CD-roms, or other
devices used to record computer images, or other media that are distinguished
or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating
to hard core material.
   ADULT MEDIA SHOP. An establishment that rents and or sells media, and that
meets any of the following three tests:
      (1)   Forty percent or more of the gross public floor area is devoted to
adult media;
      (2)   Forty percent or more of the stock in trade consists of adult
media; and/or
      (3)   It advertises or holds itself in any forum as “XXX,” “adult,”
“sex,” or otherwise as a sexually oriented business other than as an adult
media store, adult motion picture theater, or adult cabaret.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment emphasizing or predominantly
showing films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or by
specified sexual activities.
   DISPLAY PUBLICLY. The act of exposing, placing, posting, exhibiting, or in
any fashion displaying in any location, whether public or private, any item in
such a manner that it may be readily seen and its content or character
distinguished by normal unaided vision viewing it from a street, highway, or
public sidewalk, or from the property of others, or from any portion of the
premises where items and materials other than adult media are on display to the
public.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any business regulated by this chapter.
   EXPLICIT SEXUAL MATERIAL. Any hard core material.
   GROSS PUBLIC FLOOR AREA. The total area of the building accessible or
visible to the public, including showrooms, motion picture theaters, motion
picture arcades, service areas, behind counter areas, storage areas visible
from such other areas, restrooms (whether or not labeled “public”), areas used
for cabaret or similar shows (including stage areas), plus aisles, hallways,
and entryways serving such areas.
   HARD CORE MATERIAL. Media characterized by sexual activity that includes one
or more of the following: erect male organ, contact of the mouth of one person
with the genitals of another, penetration with a finger or male organ into any
orifice in another person, open female labia, penetration of a sex toy into the
orifice, male ejaculation, or the aftermath of male ejaculation.
   LINGERIE MODELING STUDIO. An establishment or business that provides the
services of live models modeling lingerie to individuals, couples, or small
groups in a room smaller that 600 square feet either as a temporary or primary
use.
   MASSAGE STUDIO. Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body which
occurs as a part of or in connection with specified sexual activities, or where
any person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related thereto,
exposes his or her specified anatomical areas. The definition of SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESSES shall not include the practice of massage in or by any
licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor, or
osteopath, nor by any nurse or technician working under the supervision of a
licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor, or osteopath, nor by trainers for
any amateur, semi-professional or professional athlete or athletic team or
school athletic program, nor by any person or entity licensed by the state.
   MEDIA. Anything printed or written, or any picture, drawing, photograph,
motion picture, film, videotape or videotape production, or pictorial
representation, or any electrical or electronic reproduction of anything that
is or may be used as a means of communication. MEDIA includes, but shall not
necessarily be limited to, books, newspapers, magazines, movies, videos, sound
recordings, CD-roms, other magnetic media, and undeveloped pictures.
   MEDIA SHOP. A general term, identifying a category of business that may
include sexually oriented material but that is not subject to the special
provisions applicable to adult media shops. In that context, MEDIA SHOP means a
retail outlet offering media for sale or rent, for consumption off the premises
if any outlet meeting the definition of adult media shop shall be treated as an
adult media outlet. MEDIA SHOPS may contain adult media, which constitutes less
that 10% of the stock in trade and occupies less that 10% of the floor area.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
state of nudity or displays specified anatomical areas for money or any form of
consideration and is to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
   NUDITY. Includes the showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic
area, or buttocks with less that a full opaque covering; the showing of the
female breast with less that a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple;
and the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PRIMARY LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. On-site entertainment by live entertainers that
characterizes the establishment, as determined (if necessary) from a pattern of
advertising as well as actual performances.
   SEX SHOP. An establishment offering goods for sale or rent and that meets
any of the following tests:
      (1)   The establishment offers for sale items from any two of the
following categories:
         (a)   Adult media;
         (b)   Lingerie; or
         (c)   Leather goods marketed or presented in a context to suggest
their use for sadomasochistic practices, and the combination of such items
constitutes more than 10% of its stock in trade or occupies more than 10% of
its floor area:
      (2)   More than 5% of its stock in trade consists of sexually oriented
toys or novelties; and/or
      (3)   More than 5% of its gross public floor area is devoted to the
display of sexually oriented toys or novelties.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An inclusive term used to describe collectively,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult media shop, video viewing
booth or arcade, massage studio, and/or sex shop.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED TOYS OR NOVELTIES. Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia
either designed as representations of human genital organs or female breast, or
designed or marketed primarily for use to stimulate human genital organs.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered: human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; and human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation
or arousal or acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy, or
fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, or
female breast.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitutes a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust or other similar legal devise which
transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by bequest
or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the ownership
or control.
   VIDEO VIEWING BOOTH or ARCADE BOOTH. Any booth, cubicle, stall, or
compartment that is designed, constructed, or used to hold or seat patrons and
is used for presenting motion pictures or viewing publications by any
photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital, or other means or media including,
but not limited to film, video or magnetic tape, laser disc, CD-rom, books,
magazines, or periodicals for observation by patrons therein. A VIDEO VIEWING
BOOTH shall not mean a theater, movie house, playhouse, or a room or enclosure
or portion thereof that contains more than 600 square feet.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 111.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, maintain, operate, or cause to be conducted,
maintained, or operated, any sexually oriented business within the corporate
limits of town without first being licensed under this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her designee, is responsible for granting,
denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and canceling sexually oriented
business permits for proposed or existing sexually oriented businesses. The
Town Marshal or his or her designee, is also responsible for ascertaining
whether a proposed sexually oriented business for which a permit is being
applied complies with all applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in
effect or as amended or enacted subsequent to the effective date of this
chapter in the town and in agreement with the Planning Board.
   (C)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputies shall be responsible for
providing information on whether an applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal act during the time set forth.
   (D)   The Planning Board shall be responsible for inspecting a proposed,
permitted, or non-permitted sexually oriented business in order to ascertain
whether it complies with applicable statutes and ordinances.
   (E)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented
business shall file with the town an original and two copies of a sworn permit
application on the standard application form supplied by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or his or her designee.
   (F)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he or she is 18 years of age
or older;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any; and
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of the state, the names and capacity of all officers,
directors, and principal stockholders, and the name of the registered corporate
agent and the address of the registered office for service of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must:
         (a)   State the sexually oriented business’ fictitious name; and
         (b)   Submit the required state registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed in the
application has, within the two- or five-year periods as specified in §
111.17 immediately preceding the date of the application, been convicted of
specified criminal acts, and if so, the specified criminal acts involved, and
the date and place of convictions;
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any of the either individuals listed in
the application has had a previous permit under this chapter, or other similar
sexually oriented business ordinances from another city or county denied,
suspended, or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented
business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked, as well as the
date of the denial, suspension, or revocation, and whether the applicant or any
other individuals listed in the application has been a partner in a partnership
or an officer, director, or principal stockholder of a corporation that is
permitted under this chapter whose permit has previously been denied,
suspended, or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented
business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the
date of denial, suspension, or revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed in the
application holds any other permits and/or licenses under this chapter or other
similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city, county, or
state and if so, the names and locations of such other permitted businesses;
      (6)   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any;
      (8)   Applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (10)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, Social Security number,
and his or her state or federally issued tax identification number;
      (11)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she must sign the application for a permit as applicant.
If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business collectively with a
group of individuals, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the
business must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a corporation
is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity that wishes
to operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or greater interest in
the corporation must sign the application for a permit as an applicant;
      (12)   If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, video cassettes, or other video
reproductions which depict specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, then said person shall comply with the application requirements stated
in §
111.36;
      (13)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches; and
      (14)   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a state registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any established existing uses
regulated by this chapter within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified,
the property lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school,
or public park or recreation area within 1,000 feet of the property to be
certified and the property lines of any residentially zoned area or residential
property within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified. For purposes of
this section, a use shall be considered EXISTING or ESTABLISHED if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted.
   (G)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that said information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty within 30 days
from the date of such change shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.
   (H)   In the event that the Town Marshal or his or her deputies determines
or learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed the
application for a proposed sexually oriented business, he or she shall promptly
notify the applicant of such fact and allow the applicant ten days to properly
complete the application. The time for granting or denying a permit shall be
stayed during the period in which the applicant is allowed an opportunity to
properly complete the application.
   (I)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to comply with health,
fire, and building codes, and laws.
   (J)   The applicant shall be required to pay a non-refundable application
fee of $100 at the time of filing an application under this section of this
chapter.
   (K)   Prior to obtaining any permit or license to operate any sexually
oriented business, as defined in this chapter, and as part of any application
for a permit under this section, the applicant shall obtain from the Planning
Board or its designee, a sexually oriented business improvement location permit
that the proposed location and structure of such business complies with the
Planning Board zoning ordinances. The location permit is contingent upon the
approval of sexually oriented business license and does not guarantee the
approval of such license.
   (L)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and or licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business permit.
   (M)   By applying for a permit under this chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the exercise
by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, Town Marshal, and all other town agencies charged
with enforcing the laws, ordinances, and codes applicable in the town of their
respective responsibilities under this chapter.
   (N)   The applicant shall be required to provide the town with the names of
any and all employees who are required to be licensed pursuant to §
111.35. This shall be a continuing requirement even after a permit is granted
or renewed.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 INVESTIGATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the town and upon
payment of the non-refundable application fee, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
immediately stamp the application as received and shall immediately thereafter
send photocopies of the application to the Town Marshal and any other town
agencies responsible for enforcement of health, fire, and building codes and
laws. Each department or agency shall promptly conduct an investigation of the
applicant, application, and the proposed sexually oriented business in
accordance with its responsibilities under law and as set forth in this
chapter. Said investigation shall be completed within 20 days of receipt of the
application by the Town Clerk-Treasurer. At the conclusion of its
investigation, each department or agency shall indicate on the photocopy of the
application its approval or disapproval of the application, date it, sign it,
and in the event it disapproves, state the reasons. The Town Marshal shall only
be required to certify the NCIC records request check mentioned at §
111.17. The Town Marshal shall not be required to approve or disapprove
applications.
   (B)   A department or agency shall disapprove an application if it finds
that the proposed sexually oriented business will be in violation of any
provision of any statute, code, ordinance, regulation, or other law in effect
in the town. After its indication of approval or disapproval, each department
or agency shall immediately return the photocopy of the application to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer who shall forward the application and any accompanying
materials to the Town Marshal and/or Planning Board for consideration.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 111.17 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. The Town Marshal or the Planning Board shall grant or deny
an application for a permit within 30 days from the date of its proper filing.
Upon the expiration of 30 days, unless the applicant requests and is granted a
reasonable extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted to begin
operating the business for which the permit is sought, unless and until the
Town Marshal or Planning Board notifies the applicant of a denial of the
application and states the reason(s) for that denial.
   (B)   Grant of application for permit.
      (1)   The Town Marshal or Planning Board shall grant the application
unless one or more of the criteria set forth in division (C) below is present.
      (2)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business shall be subject to prohibitions against public
nudity and indecency pursuant to the I.C. 35-45-4-1. The permit shall be posted
in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented
business so that it can be read easily at any time.
   (C)   Denial of application for permit.
      (1)   The Town Marshal or Planning Board shall deny the application for
any of the following reasons:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (b)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue on his or her
payment to the town for taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him
or her or imposed upon him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business;
         (c)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the Town Marshal or Planning Board to operate a sexually oriented
business within the preceding 12 months, or residing with a person whose permit
to operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding
12 months;
         (d)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or permit application for the issuance of the permit or has falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form;
         (e)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have
not been approved as complying with health, fire, and building codes by the
department or agency responsible under law for investigating said compliance;
         (f)   The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not
been paid;
         (g)   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of or does
not comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or the Planning Board
ordinances;
         (h)   The applicant has a permit under this chapter that has been
suspended or revoked; and/or
         (i)   An applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal act”
for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the specified criminal acts, which
are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or crimes connected
with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited to,
distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a felony offense for the specified criminal acts which are
sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with
another sexually oriented business including but not limited to distribution of
obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution, pandering, or tax
violations;
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
convictions are of two or more misdemeanor offenses for specified criminal acts
which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including but not limited to
distribution of obscenity or materials harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations, offenses occurring within any 24-month period;
            4.   The fact that conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant;
            5.   An applicant who has been convicted of the above described
specified criminal acts may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time required in division (C)(1)(i) above has elapsed; and/or
            6.   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employment, an
employee who does not have a valid license as required in §
111.35.
      (2)   If the Town Marshal or Planning Board denies the application, they
shall notify the applicant of the denial and state the reason(s) for the denial
within 30 days of proper filing of the application.
      (3)   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of 12 months from the date of denial of a previous application for a
permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in the
circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 111.18 ANNUAL PERMIT FEE.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is $200.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 111.19 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the town and
county to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose
of insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (B)   A person who refuses to permit any such inspection of the premises at
any time that it is occupied or open for business shall be in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
111.20 (for renewals, filing of original survey shall be sufficient) of this
chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
   (B)   When the Town Marshal or Planning Board denies renewal of the permit,
the applicant shall not be issued a permit under this chapter for one year from
the date of denial. If subsequent to denial, the Town Marshal or Planning Board
finds that the basis for denial of the renewal of the permit has been
corrected, the applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the denial became final.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 111.21 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Marshal or Planning Board shall suspend a permit for a period
not to exceed 30 days if they determine that a permittee or an employee of a
permittee has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      (2)   Been under the influence of alcoholic beverages or any controlled
substances while working in the sexually oriented business premises;
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises;
      (5)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance, or regulation, whether
federal, state, or local, said determination being based on investigation by
the division, department, or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws.
In the event of such statute, code, ordinance or regulation violation, the Town
Marshal or Planning Board shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation
and shall allow the permittee a seven-day period in which to correct the
violation. If the permittee fails to correct the violation before the
expiration of the seven-day period, the Town Marshal or Planning Board shall
forthwith suspend the permit and shall notify the permittee of the suspension;
      (6)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours
of operation in §
111.37; and/or
      (7)   Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid license as
required in §
111.35.
   (B)   The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance, or regulation has been corrected.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 111.22 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Marshal or Planning Board shall revoke a permit if a cause of
suspension in §
111.21 occurs and the permit has been suspended within the preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or Planning Board shall revoke a permit upon
determining that:
      (1)   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant’s
opportunity for obtaining a permit;
      (2)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use,
or sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
      (3)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises;
      (4)   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee’s permit was suspended;
      (5)   A permittee has been convicted of a “specified criminal act” for
which the time period required in §
111.17 has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted premises,
constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been obtained,
and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at
the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit;
      (7)   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business;
      (8)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises;
      (9)   A permittee has been operating more than one sexually oriented
business under a single roof; and/or
      (10)   A permittee has engaged in or attempted to engage in a transfer of
permit in violation of §
111.24.
   (C)   When the Town Marshal or Planning Board revokes a permit, the
revocation shall continue for one year and the permittee shall not be issued a
sexually oriented business permit for one year from the date revocation became
effective. If subsequent to revocation, the Town Marshal or Planning Board
finds that the basis for revocation under this section has been corrected, the
applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90 days have elapsed since the
date revocation became effective. If the permit was revoked under this section,
an applicant may not be granted another permit until the number of years
required under this section have elapsed.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 111.23 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT; DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION.
   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
judicial review of the administrative action in the County Superior or Circuit
Court.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 111.24 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another person
unless transferee complies with the applicable terms of this chapter.
   (C)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another location.
   (D)   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void, and the permit shall be
deemed revoked.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
CONDITIONS
§ 111.35 EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   Each individual to be employed in a sexually oriented business, as
defined in §
111.02, who engages in the services rendered by a live performer or entertainer
shall be required to obtain a sexually oriented business employee license. Each
applicant shall pay a permit fee of $25. Said fee is to cover reasonable
administrative costs of the licensing application process.
   (B)   (1)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit, on a form to be provided by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee, the following information:
         (a)   The applicant’s name or any other names (including “stage”
names) or aliases used by the individual;
         (b)   Age, date, and place of birth;
         (c)   Height, weight, hair, and eye color;
         (d)   Present residence address and telephone number;
         (e)   Present business address and telephone number;
         (f)   State driver’s license or identification number;
         (g)   Social Security number;
         (h)   Acceptable written proof that the individual is at least 18
years of age;
         (i)   Attached to the application form, as provided above, a color
photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s face, and the
applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Town Marshal. Any fees for
the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant;
         (j)   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application, including whether such applicant previously operated or was
seeking to operate in this or any other county, city, state, or country, and
has ever had a license, permit, or authorization to do business denied,
revoked, or suspended or had any professional or vocational license or permit
denied, revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or
suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction,
and describe in full the reasons for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A
copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application; and
         (k)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a “specified
criminal” act as defined in §
111.17(C)(1). This information shall include the date, place, nature of each
conviction or plea of nolo contendere, and identifying the convicting
jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Town Marshal or the Planning Board shall investigate the
application to determine the validity of the information within the
application. The application process shall be completed within ten days from
the date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the Town
Marshal or the Planning Board shall issue a license unless the report finds
that one or more of the following findings are true.
         (a)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a license, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the Police Department or other
department of the town.
         (b)   The applicant is under 18 years of age.
         (c)   The applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal act”
as defined in §
111.17(C)(1).
         (d)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used
for employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule,
or regulation, or prohibited by particular provisions of this chapter.
         (e)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee
license revoked by the town within two years of the date of the current
application.
   (C)   (1)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to
annual renewal by the Town Marshal or the Planning Board upon the written
application of the applicant and a finding by the Town Marshal that the
applicant has not been convicted on any “specified criminal act” as defined in
§
111.17(C)(1) or committed any act curing the existence of the previous license
period which would be grounds to deny the initial permit application.
      (2)   The renewal of the license shall be the same as the initial
application fee.
   (D)   A copy of employee licenses as defined by this section shall be
available on the premises of the business of which the employee is employed for
inspection by law officers or code enforcement officers or other designated
enforcement officials. The employee license is not required to be posted.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 111.36 PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person who operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for said business under this chapter, to knowingly or with
reasonable cause knows, permits, suffers, or allows:
      (1)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business
premises; or
      (2)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business
premises as an employee.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of each sexually oriented
business to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance at
all times during such sexually oriented businesses regular business hours. It
shall be the duty of the attendant to prohibit any person under the age of 18
years from entering the establishment. It shall be presumed that an attendant
knew a person was under the age of 18 unless the attendant asked for and was
furnished a valid operator’s, commercial operator’s, or chauffeur’s license, or
a valid personal identification certificate issued by the state reflecting that
such person is 18 years of age or older.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, and allows such business to remain
open for business, or to permit any employee to engage in a performance,
solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a service, or
solicit a service between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. of any
particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person while working as an employee of a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, to engage in a performance,
solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a service, or
solicit a service between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. of any
particular day.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.38 NUDITY.
   No person shall allow public nudity in any sexually oriented business. Any
sexually oriented business which is found in violation of this section shall
have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of §
111.21.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Public nudity and indecency defined, see I.C. 35-45-4-1
§ 111.39 LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, LIVE ENTERTAINMENT is defined as a
person who appears nude, semi-nude, or a performance that is characterized by
the exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual
activities.”
   (B)   No person shall perform live entertainment for patron(s) of a sexually
oriented business establishment except upon a stage at least 18 inches above
the level of the floor which is separated by a distance of at least ten feet
from the nearest area occupied by patron(s). No patron shall be permitted
within ten feet of the stage while the stage is occupied by a performer.
   (C)   No entertainer, either before, during, or after a performance, shall
have physical contact with any patron and no patron shall have physical contact
with any entertainer either before, during, or after a performance. This
division (C) shall only apply to physical contact while in or on the premises
of the establishment.
   (D)   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any entertainer.
A patron who wishes to pay or give a gratuity to a performer shall place the
gratuity in a container that is at all times located separately from the
performers for the purpose of preventing any physical contact between a patron
and a performer. No performer shall solicit any gratuity from any patron.
   (E)   No operator of a sexually oriented business establishment shall cause
or allow a performer to engage in any entertainment such as a “couch” or a
“straddle” dance with a patron while in or on the establishment premises. No
performer shall contract to or engage in a “couch” or “straddle” dance with a
patron while in or on the establishment premises. For purposes of this division
(E), COUCH OR STRADDLE DANCE is defined as an employee of the establishment
intentionally touching or coming within ten feet of any patron while engaged in
the display or exposure of any “specified anatomical area” or any “specified
sexual activity.” For purposes of this division (E), EMPLOYEE is defined as it
is in §
111.02.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to an employee of an establishment who,
while acting as a waiter, waitress, host, hostess, or bartender, comes within
ten feet of a patron. No employee shall engage in any “specified sexual
activity” or display or expose any “specified anatomical area” while acting as
a waiter, waitress, host, hostess, or bartender.
   (G)   (1)   For purposes of this section, ESTABLISHMENT is defined as it is
in §
111.02. No establishment shall be in compliance with this section until the
town’s designated agent(s) have inspected and approved of the establishment’s
compliance. The town shall have ten days from the date it receives written
notice from the operator that the establishment is ready for inspection to
approve or disapprove of compliance required by this section. Failure to
approve or disapprove of compliance within ten days shall constitute a finding
of compliance under this section.
      (2)   The operator of an establishment, that has been providing live
entertainment under a valid sexually oriented business permit, shall have the
time periods listed below in which to bring the establishment into compliance
with this section. Failure to do so while continuing to provide live
entertainment shall cause the establishment’s permit to be suspended under §
111.21. The permit shall remain suspended until the establishment is approved
by the town’s designated agent(s) as being in full compliance with this
section.
      (3)   The operator of an establishment, that has been operating under a
valid permit for another classification of sexually oriented business and who
wishes to provide live entertainment at that establishment, shall apply for and
receive a sexually oriented business permit for the operation of an
establishment providing live entertainment before any live entertainment is
provided at that establishment. No live entertainment permit shall be issued
until the establishment is approved as being in full compliance with this
section and all other applicable requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   The applicant for a permit to operate a new establishment, who
wishes to provide live entertainment, shall apply for and receive a sexually
oriented business permit for the operation of an establishment providing live
entertainment before any live entertainment is provided. No live entertainment
permit shall be issued until the establishment is approved as being in full
compliance with this section and all other applicable requirements of this
chapter.
      (5)   Compliance with division (B) above must occur within 60 days from
the date this section becomes effective.
      (6)   Compliance with division (C) above must occur within 90 days from
the date this section becomes effective.
      (7)   Compliance with division (D) above must occur within 90 days from
the date this section becomes effective.
      (8)   Compliance with division (E) above must occur upon the date this
section becomes effective.
      (9)   Compliance with division (F) above must occur within 60 days from
the date this section becomes effective.
      (10)   Compliance with this division (G) must occur upon the date this
section becomes effective.
      (11)   Compliance with division (H) below must occur upon the date this
section becomes effective.
   (H)   Any person having a duty under this section commits a misdemeanor if
he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each violation. Each day of
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to seeking penalties against individuals who violate
provisions of this chapter, the Town Attorney or his or her designated
representative may commence legal action seeking injunctive relief against any
individuals violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 10-2-2006)
CHAPTER 112: HAWKERS; PEDDLERS; TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
Hawkers and Peddlers
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Fees and application procedure
   
112.04   Hours restricted
   
112.05   Exemptions
Transient Merchants
   
112.20   License required
   
112.21   Affidavit
   
112.22   Exemption
 
   
112.99   Penalty
HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAWKER or PEDDLER. Any person or persons who sell or solicit, or offer to
sell or solicit, any goods or services, or items of value, on the streets or
other public places within the town, or by going from house to house, offering
to sell or solicit any goods or services, or procuring orders for future goods
or services from individuals, whether for present or future delivery, shall be
taken and deemed and is declared to be a HAWKER or PEDDLER, and will hereafter
be referred to as a HAWKER or PEDDLER.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, or other firm,
organization, and association whatsoever.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed - -)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to exercise the vocation of a
hawker/peddler within the limits of the town without having first obtained a
license to do so in the manner by this subchapter hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 FEES AND APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Any hawker/peddler shall first make application to the Town Clerk-Treasurer
at least 30 days prior to the time during which the sale or solicitation shall
be made or procured. The application for permit, which must be filed with the
Town Clerk-Treasurer, as aforesaid, shall contain the names and addresses of
each person who shall be upon the streets and ways of the town. The application
for permit shall be accompanied by the sum of $750 to be deposited with and
held by the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The earnest money deposited shall be returned
30 days after any permit granted shall have expired and the last day that the
hawker/peddler shall have left the limits of the town, less any damages
sustained by the town or any citizen thereof. Should any citizen of the town
register protest to the Town Council or Town Clerk-Treasurer concerning the
hawker/peddler, the hawker/peddler shall be notified and the $750 retained
until the dispute is settled. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall further cause to
be made an investigation of the persons, companies, and associations
represented by such hawker/peddler so that the welfare of the citizens of the
town might be protected. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall refuse to issue the
permits to any hawker/peddlers or group of hawker/peddlers which are not
registered with accredited organizations such as the Better Business Bureau and
the like. The application shall further be accompanied by the sum of $100 for a
six-month license within the town for each six-month period and the license
shall indicate such time frame the license covers the hawker/peddler shall
operate within the town as a set fee. The permit shall clearly state the
business, avocation, permission granted to the hawker/peddler, and the length
of time for which he or she will have paid to solicit in the town.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed - -)
§ 112.04 HOURS RESTRICTED.
   No hawker/peddler shall pursue his or her business, avocation, calling, or
specific thing for which he or she has a license prior to the hour of 8:00 a.m.
nor after 6:00 p.m. No business shall be conducted on Sunday.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the Town Council from waiving
the 30-day investigation period or from granting a courtesy permit to local,
charitable, and/or service organizations. Local, charitable, and/or service
organizations which are established and known may be granted permits without
the payment of fees as hereinabove set forth. The application to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall clearly set forth the business, avocation, and calling
along with the residence of the applicant for ten years last preceding the
application.
   (B)   Permanent area residents with established routed and franchises may
obtain a license permit renewable form year to year on the anniversary date
thereof for the sum of $100 upon application to the Town Clerk-Treasurer and
the approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed - -)
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
§ 112.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant to engage in or transact any
business, to advertise, represent, or hold forth any sales as an insurance,
bankrupt, insolvent, assignee, trustee, testator, executor, administrator,
receiver, syndicate, wholesale or manufacturer’s or closing out sale, or as a
sale of any goods, wares, or merchandise damaged by fire, water, or otherwise,
in any similar form in said town without first securing a license of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer to do so.
(Ord. 24, passed 1-23-1905) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 AFFIDAVIT.
   (A)   Any such person when making his or her application for license for
such sales shall make an affidavit and file it with the Town Clerk-Treasurer,
showing all the facts relating to the reasons for and character of such sale so
to be advertised or represented and showing that such sale is in fact as it is
to be advertised or represented, including a statement of the names of the
persons from whom the goods, wares or merchandise so to be advertised or
represented were obtained, the date of delivery to the person applying for the
license, and the place from which said goods, wares, or merchandise were last
taken.
   (B)   If said affidavit shall fail to show that such sale is of the
character as the same is intended to be advertised or represented, as shown in
such affidavit, then said Town Clerk-Treasurer shall refuse said applicant a
license for such sale.
   (C)   Any person making a false statement of any fact in such affidavit
shall be prosecuted for perjury.
   (D)   Such transient merchant shall pay to the Town Marshal the sum of $10
per day for each and every day such sale is continued.
(Ord. 24, passed 1-23-1905) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not prohibit merchants locating permanently or doing a
legislative business.
(Ord. 24, passed 1-23-1905) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
112.01 through
112.05 or any provision contained in any section thereof, upon conviction shall
be fined in any sum not exceeding $250 for each offense, and each day the
person shall engage in business, avocation, calling, or pursuit, requiring a
license under the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed - -)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND MORALS
      
131.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND MORALS
Section
Offenses Against Public Peace
   
130.01   Playing in public ways
   
130.02   Animals in public ways
   
130.03   Turning stocks
   
130.04   Fireworks; explosives
   
130.05   Disturbing meetings
   
130.06   Basketball goals
Offenses Against Public Morals
   
130.20   Language
   
130.21   Prostitution
   
130.22   Fighting
   
130.23   Loitering prohibited
   
130.24   Gambling; games of chance
   
130.25   Exhibitions; prizes
   
130.26   Alcoholic beverages; possession and consumption
   
130.27   Public intoxication
   
130.28   Indecent exposure
Noise
   
130.40   Definition
   
130.41   Prohibitions
   
130.42   Exceptions
   
130.43   Enforcement
Weapons
   
130.55   Definitions
   
130.56   Discharge
   
130.57   Public display
   
130.58   Alteration of markings
   
130.59   Exception
 
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
§ 130.01 PLAYING IN PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to pitch quoits, coins, or
horseshoes, or to play cricket, baseball, town ball, lawn tennis, marbles, or
any other public game or amusement within the corporate limits of said town on
Sunday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play any game of croquet,
marbles, lawn tennis, baseball or pitch quoits, horseshoes, or play at any
other game upon any street, alley, or walk within said town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast or throw any ball, stone,
or missle of any kind on or across any street or alley, or into any church or
school building or through or into any window of any building or said town.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 ANIMALS IN PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hitch or tie any horse, mule,
cattle, or other animal to any shade tree growing by any sidewalk, or boring
around the same, in said town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any team, horse, mule,
cattle, or other animal attached to any vehicle in any street, alley, or public
place in said town, without someone able to control the same shall be with or
in the near vicinity thereof, or under such team or animal shall be securely
fastened to a hitching post, rack, or ring.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person having charge of any animal or
vehicle to lead, drive, or move the same so as to pass through or interfere
with any civic, military, or funeral procession within said town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or ride any horse, mule,
or other animal faster than an ordinary trot on any of the streets or alleys of
said town.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 TURNING STOCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn any stock of any description or
kind upon any stock of any description or kind upon or into any enclosure of
the public schools or churches within said town.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 FIREWORKS; EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or explode any fire cracker,
Roman candles, rockets, or fireworks of any description or build any bonfire or
fire for any purpose in any street or alley of said town.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 DISTURBING MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any religious meeting or
public gathering of any kind whatsoever, or disturb or molest any individual
attending such meetings in said town.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 BASKETBALL GOALS.
   It shall be unlawful for basketball goals to be used on the streets of the
town or stored near the streets of the town. All basketball goals which are
stored within ten feet of the public streets and byways of the town shall be
confiscated or otherwise removed by the Town Marshal or a town employee at the
direction of the Town Marshal, and then duly secured at a location determined
of the Town Marshal and the Town Manager until such time that they are
retrieved by the proper owners. All basketball goals confiscated or removed
pursuant to this section shall be redeemable by the proper owners upon a
payment to the town in the sum of $35, and the proper owner shall be
responsible for transporting the basketball goal from the place of storage to
the owner’s place of residence.
(Ord. 2000-8, passed 11-6-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
§ 130.20 LANGUAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, by any loud or boisterous
language, or any profane or obscene language, or by any violent action or
threats, or quarreling within said limits of said town, to disturb the peace
and quiet of said town, or to molest or disturb any inhabitant thereof.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any male person over 14 years of age, to be
found in any of the streets, alleys, or commons of said town in company with
any female known or reputed as a prostitute.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any female prostitute to wander about said
town or on any of the said streets, alleys, or commons thereof or to commit any
act of prostitution in any public place within the limits of said town.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any cockfighting, boxing,
or slugging match within the corporate limits of said town.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, crosswalk, walkway area, mall, or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (C)
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division
(C) if it appears at trial that the explanation given was due and disclosed a
lawful purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 GAMBLING; GAMES OF CHANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play or engage in playing at
any games of cards, dominoes, checkers, chess, hazzard dice, or any other games
played with cards or dice, or other gaming apparatus in any saloon, pool room,
billiard room, store, shop, room, or building or place where intoxicating
liquors are kept for sale or sold as a beverage within said town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person having the care, custody, control,
or management of any saloon room or building, or other place where intoxicating
liquors are sold as a beverage in said town to suffer, allow, or permit any
game of cards, dice, chuck-a-luck, hazzard faro, or other games that can or may
be played with cards or dice or other gaming apparatus to be played in or about
such saloon, room, building, or place.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person having the care, custody, control,
or management of any pool room, billiard room, store, shop, or other room,
building, or place to suffer, allow, or permit any game of cards, dice, chuck-
a-luck, hazzard faro, or other games that can or may be played with cards or
dice, or other gaming apparatus to be played in or about such pool room,
billiard room, store, shop, or other room building or place.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person within said town to be resorting
to any trick or device to procure money or thing of value, or to induce any
other persons to engage in any game of chance or hazzard by which money or
other thing of value may be lost or won, such as the Mexican puzzle, patent
sale, straps, thimble and bells, pocket-book dropping, three-card monte, or
other plan, trick, or device of like character or import.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, for the purpose of gambling, to
visit any place, room, or establishment within said town, where playing,
wagering, or betting at or upon any game of chance where money or its
equivalent or representation is being done.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 EXHIBITIONS; PRIZES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit or hold any concert or
dancing or theatrical performance or public exhibition of skill or endurance,
in any saloon, room, or building within said town where intoxicating liquors
are sold as a beverage, or to be drunk upon the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale within
said town, any prize, package, or any sealed box or package containing or
purporting to contain any prize or other thing of value, without first making
known to any person offering to purchase the same or to whom the same is
offered for sale, the true and entire contents thereof.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION.
   It is prohibited for any person to possess or consume alcoholic beverages on
any properties real or other, owned, leased, or under the control of the town.
The Town Council, by resolution, may grant exception on a case by case basis
for special occasions.
(Ord. 93-4, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.27 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any intoxicated or drunken person to be on the
streets or any other public place or in any public building of said town.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to publicly or indecently expose his or
her naked person or any part thereof to the view of any other person in the
streets, alleys, or any other public place of said town.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905) Penalty, see §
130.99
NOISE
§ 130.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS NOISE. Any noise, whether natural or artificially created.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 130.41 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause noise, by either natural or
artificial means, that is annoying or bothersome to any person within the town.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.42 EXCEPTIONS.
   Realizing that noise may be unavoidable during the conduct of routine
business or enterprise, such noise is exempt from the tenants of this
subchapter providing that it occurs during normal business hours and is not
excessive.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.43 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter may be by lawsuit initiated in the name of the
town by the Town Attorney or by prosecution. If it is necessary to file such a
lawsuit, the defendant shall pay a reasonable fee to the Town Attorney in the
event the town should prevail.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 1-5-1998)
WEAPONS
§ 130.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. Any weapon which is capable of or designed to or which may readily
be converted to expel a projectile by means of an explosion.
   PROJECTILE. Includes, but shall not be limited to include, any object that
is propelled from a firearm or weapon such as a bullet, shell, rocket, grenade,
arrow, BB, pellet, paintball, rock, or any other similar object.
   WEAPON. Includes, but shall not be limited to include, any firearm, any
archery equipment, any device used to discharge a projectile either by means of
explosion, by force or mechanical means, any sling shot or slings, or any
device that can hurl or otherwise discharge a projectile.
(Ord. 2016-19, passed - -)
§ 130.56 DISCHARGE.
   No person shall fire or discharge, or cause to be fired or discharged,
within limits of the town or airport, any firearm or weapon.
(Ord. 2016-19, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.57 PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person under the age of 18 shall publicly display a weapon.
(Ord. 2016-19, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.58 ALTERATION OF MARKINGS.
   No person shall alter any federally required orange markings or
identification marks on any weapons, toys, or other similar items designating
such as not a firearm. This restriction applies to any weapon, toy, or other
similar items which will be displayed in public.
(Ord. 2016-19, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.59 EXCEPTION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to police officers or soldiers in the
discharge of their official duties while in the exercise of reasonable care;
nor to a person using firearms or weapons in necessary self-defense; nor to
shooting clubs or other businesses or operations who have a fixed place of
business within the town and whereby they have taken appropriate measures to
ensure that there is no danger to any person whatsoever.
(Ord. 2016-19, passed - -)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
130.01 through
130.06,
130.20 through
130.25,
130.27, and
130.28 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not less than $1 nor
more than $10, together with cost of prosecution.
   (C)   Any violation of any of the provisions of §
130.26 is to be declared unlawful and a Class D misdemeanor. Any person found
in violation of the provisions of § 130.26 shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $50 and not more than $500 plus any court costs and attorney fees
that may result from prosecution. Except for cases filed for prosecution, the
set fine shall be in the amount of $50 and will be payable to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer no later than 14 days from the date of violation. Failure to settle
the fine in a timely manner will result in the violation being filed for
prosecution.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
130.40 through
130.43 commits a Class A misdemeanor and is subject to the appropriate fines
and penalties. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each occasion
that a violation occurs.
      (2)   In lieu of suit or prosecution, any law enforcement officer may
issue a citation to the responsible person who may be found in violation of
this chapter. Such citation shall impose upon the responsible person a penalty
of $35 for the first offense. The penalty shall increase for a second and all
subsequent offenses to $50. The penalty fee shall be collected by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and shall be due and payable two weeks from the date of the
citation and shall be deposited as directed by the Town Council.
   (E)   Any person who violates §§
130.55 through
130.59 shall be subject to a fine of $150 for the first offense. Any person who
commits a second or subsequent violation of §§
130.55 through
130.59 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $350 nor more than $1,000.
Fines may be imposed on a per-violation basis.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-9-1905; Ord. 18, passed 1-23-1905; Ord. 93-4, passed 9-7-
1993; Ord. 98-5, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 2016-19, passed - -)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Offenses
   
131.03   Defenses
   
131.04   Enforcement
   
131.05   Review of regulations
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)   From 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday
until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
      (2)   From 1:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT. A person who is:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
      (2)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to
have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to streets, highways, and
the common areas of school, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN.
      (1)   Linger or stay; or
      (2)   Fail to leave the premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.02 OFFENSES.
   (A)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains, walks, runs, stands,
drives, or rides about in or upon any public place or on the premises of any
establishment within the town during curfew hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain,
walk, stand, drive, or ride about in or upon any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the town during curfew hours.
   (C)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain, walk, run, stand,
drive, or ride about in or upon the premises of the establishment during curfew
hours.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under §
131.02 that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, the Southeastern
School Corporation, a civic organization, church, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under §
131.02 that the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly
notify the Police Department that a minor was present on the premises of the
establishment during the curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and the reason for being in the
public place.
   (B)   The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this
chapter unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and
that, based on any response and other circumstances, no affirmative defense in
§
131.03 is applicable.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.05 REVIEW OF REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall be reviewed every third year prior to June 1 of such
year. The first review shall be conducted no later than June 15, 2010 and every
third year thereafter. Such review shall be conducted following a public
hearing regarding the need to continue this chapter and the Town Council shall
have the option to continue, abolish, or modify this chapter based upon their
review of this chapter’s effects on the community and on the problems this
chapter is intended to remedy.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of the
offense of curfew violation and is subject to the following fines:
      (1)   First time offense: warning and taken home to parents;
      (2)   Second offense: $25 fine and taken home to parents; and
      (3)   Third offense: $50 fine and taken home to parents.
   (B)   If the parents are aware of the juvenile being in violation of this
curfew law and they approve of such violation, the parent will be charged with
aiding, inducing, and causing a violation, per I.C. 35-32-2-4.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Property damage or defacement
Littering
   
132.15   Short title
   
132.16   Definitions
   
132.17   Litter in public places
   
132.18   Placement of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering
   
132.19   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
   
132.20   Merchants’ duty to keep sidewalks free of litter
   
132.21   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
132.22   Litter in parks
   
132.23   Litter in lakes and fountains
   
132.24   Litter on occupied private property
   
132.25   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
   
132.26   Litter on vacant lots
   
132.27   Clearing of litter from open private property by town
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 PROPERTY DAMAGE OR DEFACEMENT.
   (A)   Personal property. It shall be unlawful for any person to
mischievously or maliciously mutilate, deface, mark, or injure the property of
another or any public property with the enjoyment by the owner thereof.
   (B)   Town property. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
molest, injure, or damage or remove in any way whatsoever, any property of any
description belonging to said town or in the care or custody of the Council
members of said town.
(Ord. passed 1-23-1905; Ord. passed 10-1-1941) Penalty, see §
132.99
LITTERING
§ 132.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Galveston Anti-
Litter Ordinance.”
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 132.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection receptacle
which is capable of containing litter in a small area where the litter can be
covered or sealed in plastic such that it is not open to public view or
exposure.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, and rubbish as defined in this section, and all
other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends
to create a danger to public health, safety, and welfare. LITTER shall also
include any type of animal feces or defecation whether it be by wild animal or
domesticated pets.
   LITTER, GARBAGE, REFUSE, and RUBBISH. All waste material which, if thrown or
deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public health,
safety, and welfare.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center, or any
other public area in the town, owned or used by the town, and devoted to active
or passive recreation.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any dwelling, house, building, or other structure,
designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes or
business purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited
or vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps,
vestibule, or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house,
building, or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds, and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, and
solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and non-
combustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984; Ord. 99-1, passed 2-1-1999)
§ 132.17 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk, or
other public place within the town, except in public receptacles, in authorized
private receptacles for collection, or in official town dumps.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.18 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place or
upon private property.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 132.19 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the town the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.20 MERCHANTS’ DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   (A)   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street, or other public place within the town the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway.
   (B)   Persons owning or occupying places of business within the town shall
keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.21 LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the town or upon private
property.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.22 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the town except
in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or
upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.23 LITTER IN LAKES AND FOUNTAINS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, lake, stream,
bay, or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere within the town.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.24 LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property
within the town, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or
person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other
public place or upon any private property.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.25 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984) Penalty, see §
132.25
§ 132.26 LITTER ON VACANT LOTS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the town whether owned by such person or not.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.27 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY TOWN.
   (A)   Notice to remove. The Town Marshal is hereby authorized and empowered
to notify the owner of any open or vacant private property within the town, or
the agent of such owner, to properly dispose of litter located on such owner’s
property which is dangerous to public health, safety, or welfare. Such notice
shall be served personally or may be sent by registered or certified mail to
the address of the owner or his or her last known address.
   (B)   Action upon non-compliance. Upon the failure, neglect, or refusal of
any owner or agent so notified to properly dispose of litter dangerous to the
public health, safety, or welfare within ten days after receipt of written
notice provided for in division (A) above, the Town Marshal is hereby
authorized and empowered to pay for the disposing of such litter or to order
its disposal by the town.
   (C)   Charge included in tax bill. When the town has effected the removal of
such dangerous litter or has paid for its removal, the actual cost thereof,
plus accrued interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date of the
completion of the work, if not paid by such owner prior thereto, shall be
charged to the owner of such property on the next regular bill forwarded to
such owner by the town, and said charge shall be due and payable by said owner
at the time of payment of such bill.
   (D)   Recorded statement constitutes lien. Where the full amount due the
town is not paid by the owner within 30 days after the disposal of such litter,
as provided for in divisions (A) and (B) above, then, and in that case, the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall cause to be recorded, in accordance with the laws of
the state, a lien against the real estate for the assessment with the County
Auditor and County Recorder. The recording of such lien shall constitute a lien
and privilege on the property and shall remain in full force and effect for the
amount due in principal and interest until paid in full. Said costs and
expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of
taxes and further shall be subject to a delinquent penalty of 8% in the event
same is not paid in full on or before the tax billing date upon said charge
that appears to become delinquent.
   (E)   Action. The town, without waiving its right to proceed under divisions
(A) through (D) above, may bring action in its name in any court having
jurisdiction over the town for injunctive relief to compel enforcement of this
chapter against any person. In the event it should be necessary to file such an
action for injunctive relief, the person, if found to be in violation of this
subchapter, shall pay all litigation expenses, together with reasonable
attorney’s fees, for the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
132.01(A) shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $1 and not more than
$10 for each and distinct offense.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
132.01(B) shall be fined in any sum not less than $1 nor more than $10 with
costs of prosecution added.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
132.15 through
132.27 may be deemed guilty of a Class B infraction, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $1,000. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as hereunder.
(Ord. passed 1-23-1905; Ord. passed 10-1-1941; Ord. 84-3, passed 9-4-1984)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
151.   CAMPS; TRAILERS
      
152.   BUILDING CODE
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
150.01   Establishment of law
   
150.02   State law adopted
   
150.03   Declaration of public nuisance
   
150.04   Administration
   
150.05   Definitions; unsafe conditions
   
150.06   Workmanlike manner
   
150.07   Unsafe Building Fund
   
150.08   Emergency action
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF LAW.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the Unsafe
Building Law.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-20-2013)
§ 150.02 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby adopted by reference as the Unsafe
Building Law. All proceedings with the town for the inspection, repair, and
removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said law and the provisions of
this chapter. In the event the provisions of this chapter conflicts with the
provisions of the state statute, the state statute will control.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-20-2013)
§ 150.03 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined after
inspection by two members of the Planning Commission to be UNSAFE as defined in
§
150.05 are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-20-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The President of the Planning Commission shall be authorized to
administer and to proceed under the provisions of said law in ordering the
repair or removal of any building found to be unsafe, as specified therein or
as specified hereafter.
   (B)   The County Board of Health is hereby designated the hearing authority
for the implementation of this chapter relating to health issues and the
Planning Commission/Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby designated the hearing
authority for the implementation of this chapter relating to zoning issues.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-20-2013)
§ 150.05 DEFINITIONS; UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the town by adding the following definition:
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure or parts of such building or
structure which has any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter
described shall be deemed to be an UNSAFE BUILDING; provided, that such
conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or
safety of the public or the building’s or structure’s occupants are endangered.
An UNSAFE BUILDING OR STRUCTURE shall not be limited to only the following
conditions:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire and panic;
         (b)   Whenever the stress in any material, member, or portions
thereof, due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times
the working stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure,
purpose, or location;
         (c)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before
such catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings or
similar structure, purpose, or location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
         (e)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance,
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings or similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
         (f)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that the walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
         (g)   Whenever the building or structure, or portion thereof, because
of dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
         (h)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
         (i)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base of the
wall;
         (j)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls of coverings;
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons
for the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
         (l)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation to such building or structure provided by the
building regulations of the town or of any law or ordinance of the state or
county relating to the condition, location, or structure of buildings;
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any support part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of newly constructed buildings of like area, height, and
occupancy in the same location;
         (n)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used
for dwelling purposes, become of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or arrangements, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the County Health
Official to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such condition
that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (o)   Whenever any building or structure because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, or heating apparatus, or other causes, is determined by the County
Fire Official to be a fire hazard; and/or
         (p)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition of destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
   (B)   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-
7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-20-2013)
§ 150.06 WORKMANLIKE MANNER.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair, or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the rules pertaining to construction, plumbing, electrical, mechanical, and
one- and two-family dwellings promulgated by the State Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission shall be considered standard and acceptable practice
for all matters covered by the ordinance or orders issued pursuant to this
chapter by the Planning Commission/Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-20-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby designated and established for the
Planning Commission in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-20-2013)
§ 150.08 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Emergency action in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-9 states
the following.
   (A)   If the enforcement authority finds it necessary to take emergency
action concerning an unsafe premises in order to protect life, safety, or
property, it may take that action without issuing an order or giving notice.
However, this emergency action must be limited to removing any immediate
danger.
   (B)   The Department, acting through the enforcement authority, may recover
the costs incurred by the enforcement authority in taking the emergency action,
by filing a civil action in the Circuit Court or Superior Court of the county
against the person(s) who held fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable
interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises at the time the
enforcement authority found it necessary to take emergency action. The
Department is not liable for the costs of this civil action.
   (C)   If an unsafe premises poses an immediate danger to the life or safety
of persons occupying or using nearby property, the enforcement authority may,
without following this chapter’s requirements for issuing an order and giving
notice, take emergency action to require persons to vacate and not use the
nearby property until the danger has passed. However, any person required to
vacate an unsafe premises under this division (C) may challenge in an emergency
court proceeding the enforcement authority’s determination that the premises
poses an immediate danger to life or safety of any person. In an emergency
court proceeding, the enforcement authority has the burden of proving that
emergency action is necessary to protect from immediate danger the life or
safety of persons occupying or using nearby property.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-20-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee, or
occupant shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or any order issued by the Planning Commission/Board
of Zoning Appeals. Failure by any person, firm, or corporation to abide by any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed a violation and shall be guilty of a
Class C infraction. Upon conviction, a violator shall be responsible for
reasonable attorney fees and fines of not less than $100 and not more than $300
per violation and, for each day that the violation continues unabated, a
separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-20-2013)
CHAPTER 151: CAMPS; TRAILERS
Section
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Front yard required
   
151.03   Tents and cabins
   
151.04   Required equipment
   
151.05   Automobile trailers as permanent residences
   
151.06   License required
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TOURIST CAMP. Apply to any plot of land, with or without buildings,
privately or municipally owned, which is used, maintained, or held out to the
public for use for camping purposes, whether free of charge or by payment of a
fee or leased for any consideration, and shall specifically include any plot of
ground where house trailers or like vehicles are parked for a period of time
exceeding 24 hours.
(Ord. 57-1, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 151.02 FRONT YARD REQUIRED.
   No tourist camp shall be designated or constructed or occupied in the
incorporated town unless the same shall have in front thereof, a yard. Said
yard must extend completely across that portion of the camp which faces upon a
public street or highway, and there shall be no obstructions in said yard for a
distance of 40 feet from the inside line of the sidewalk abutting said street.
It is the intention of this section to provide a 40-feet building line for all
tourist camps.
(Ord. 57-1, passed 4-1-1957) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 TENTS AND CABINS.
   (A)   Tents of any nature, kind, or description shall in no case be rented
or leased by the owner, proprietor, agent, or lessee of any tourist camp to the
general public for overnight accommodation, and the occupants of any tent
privately owned shall be limited to an overnight stay or 24 hours in any tent
encamped in the town.
   (B)   Each tourist camp shall be of sufficient size and area that no trailer
or tent shall have less ground area surrounding it than 900 square feet. No
tourist cabin shall be constructed on any area unless 1,200 square feet of area
is allocated to each tourist cabin accommodating not more than two people, and
an additional 1,200 square feet shall be allocated to each cabin for each
additional two people.
   (C)   No tourist cabin shall be constructed unless of sufficient size that
the sleeping room therein shall provide not less than 500 feet of air space to
each person accommodated thereby.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the proprietor, owner, or agent operating any
such tourist camp, to see that the trailers or other vehicles parked therein
shall be kept in a regular alignment.
(Ord. 57-1, passed 4-1-1957) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   If such tourist camps are equipped with tourist cabins, the
construction of said tourist cabins shall comply, in all respects, with all
other ordinances of said incorporated town relating to buildings. The tourist
cabins so constructed shall each be furnished with suitable toilet facilities
and bathing accommodations.
   (B)   No tourist camp which is used for parking trailer or for camping
purposes shall be permitted in said incorporated town unless a suitable and
proper washroom and water closets shall be provided by the owner, agent, or
lessee. Said water closets shall be equipped with not less than one seat for
each ten people, and those water closets or toilets used by the women and girls
in said camps shall have separate approaches and be separate and apart from
those used by the men.
   (C)   In any tourist camp where each cabin is not equipped with toilet and
bathing facilities, there shall be constructed lavatories and washrooms which
shall be adjacent to the toilet rooms and constructed and of such number that
there shall be allocated one lavatory to each ten people which the said camp
will accommodate at normal times.
   (D)   In addition to the toilets and lavatories, the owner, agent, or lessee
in each such establishment, shall provide a shower bath or bath tub to each ten
people that said camp will accommodate, and these shall be enclosed in suitable
structures as to ensure privacy, and shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times.
   (E)   Each tourist camp shall be equipped with approved fire extinguishers.
   (F)   No person shall remain a resident of any such tourist camp for greater
than 90 days continuously.
   (G)   The toilet facilities, hereinabove described, together with the baths
and lavatories shall each and all be connected with the permanent sewer system
of said incorporated town, in the event said sewer system is available. If said
tourist camp is so located that the sewer is not available, suitable septic
tanks or other absorption devices shall be constructed.
   (H)   All tourist camps shall be provided with an adequate supply of
drinking water.
   (I)   All tourist camps located in said incorporated town shall be properly
and adequately lighted at all times so that the yard thereof will be safe for
the occupants and visitors and each and every toilet room, bath house, or
lavatory house shall be equipped with a light to be kept burning in from sunset
until dawn of each and every night.
   (J)   No occupant of any tourist camp within said incorporated town shall
use the space allocated to him or her for commercial purposes of any nature,
kind, or description whatsoever.
   (K)   Each of the regulations prescribed in this chapter shall be in
addition to the regulations contained in an Act of the General Assembly of the
year 1935, Chapter 24, which is known as the “Tourist Camp License Law” and the
regulations and rules prescribed by the State Board of Health, pursuant to said
Act.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful to occupy and maintain any trailer or house car
whether same is resting upon wheels or other foundation within the town except
in a duly licensed tourist camp and strictly in accordance with each and all of
the provisions of this chapter.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful, within the limits of this town, for any person
to park any trailer on any street, alley, or highway, or other public place or
on any tract of land owned by any person, occupied or unoccupied, within this
town except as provided for in this chapter.
      (1)   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any
street, alley, or highway for not longer than one hour.
      (2)   No person shall park or occupy any trailer on the premises of any
occupied dwelling or any lot which is not a part of the premises of any
occupied dwelling either of which is situated outside an approved trailer camp
except the parking of only one unoccupied trailer in an accessory private
garage building, or in a rear yard in any district, is permitted providing no
living quarter shall be maintained or any business practiced in said trailer
which such trailer is so parked or stored.
(Ord. 57-1, passed 4-1-1957) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 AUTOMOBILE TRAILERS AS PERMANENT RESIDENCES.
   Automobile trailers shall not be used as a permanent place of abode or as a
permanent dwelling or for indefinite periods of time provided that any such
trailer properly connected with the town water supply and sanitary sewer
systems, and constructed and located in compliance with all requirements of the
building, plumbing, sanitary, health, zoning, and electrical statutes of this
state, and not inhabited by a greater number of occupants than that for which
it was designed, may be permitted on any premises under permits properly
secured as provided for in said building, plumbing electrical, sanitary,
health, and zoning statutes of the state.
(Ord. 57-1, passed 4-1-1957) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, or
maintain, or permit to be established, operated, or maintained upon any
property owned or controlled by him or her a trailer camp or tourist camp or
combination of the two within the limits of this town, without having first
secured a license therefor and for each of them, granted and existing in
compliance with the terms of this chapter. Such license shall expire at the end
of the year of issuance but may be renewed for additional periods of one year.
   (B)   The application for such license or the renewal thereof shall be filed
with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and shall be accompanied by a fee of $5 for each
unit and cabin plot in the existing or proposed camp. The application shall
contain such information as required by the Town Council.
   (C)   Before such license may be issued, there must be a favorable
recommendation by the Town Council, and the premises may be inspected and
approved by Council members or their duly authorized representatives.
   (D)   Upon such approvals being endorsed on the application, it shall be
presented to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, who shall issue a license therefor and
the license fees deposited shall be delivered to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 57-1, passed 4-1-1957) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $10 and not more than $100, and each and every day’s
continuance of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 57-1, passed 4-1-1957)
CHAPTER 152: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Scope
   
152.05   Authority
Building Permits
   
152.20   Building permit required
   
152.21   Application for building permit   
   
152.22   Issuance of building permit
   
152.23   Certificate of occupancy
   
152.24   Fees
Investigations and Inspections of Construction Activities
   
152.35   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
152.36   Inspections by Fire Department
Enforcement
   
152.50   Withhold issuance of permit
   
152.51   Permit revocation
   
152.52   Stop-work order
   
152.53   Civil action
   
152.54   Right of appeal
Minimum Construction Standards
   
152.65   Adoption of rules by reference
   
152.66   Use of engineered roof trusses and floor joints
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the “Building Code of Town of Galveston, Indiana.”
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the life, public safety, health,
and general welfare of the citizens of town, and shall be construed in such a
manner as to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Building
Department that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-
4.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-
5.
   CONSTRUCTION. Shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-7.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in
I.C. 22-12-1-14.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-
16.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-
17.
   PERSON. Shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-18.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class l and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-
26.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this Building Code.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this Building Code shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this Building Code and the rules promulgated
by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any
construction related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure
not certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this Building Code is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this Building Code;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 152.20 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.21 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form provided by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following;
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all construction to be accomplished;
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and shall show
streets, curbs, and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such
streets, curbs, and sidewalks;
      (4)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a construction design release for the
construction to be done that has been issued by the Building Law Compliance
Officer pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3;
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building and fire safety laws and will not violate any other applicable
ordinances or laws; and
       (6)   The fee established by §
152.24.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.22 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee,
provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable building
and fire safety laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or
laws.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.23 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any structure shall be issued unless such
structure was constructed in compliance with the provisions of this Building
Code. It shall be unlawful to occupy any structure unless a full, partial, or
temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building
Commissioner.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.24 FEES.
   (A)   Building permit fees. Building permits fees for the town are set as
follows:
      (1)   Construction costs not exceeding $5,000: $15.00;
      (2)   Construction costs more than $5,000 and less than $10,000: $20;
      (3)   Construction costs more than $10,000 and less than $15,000: $25;
      (4)   Construction costs more than $15,000 and less than $25,000: $30;
and
      (5)   Construction costs more than $25,000: $45.
   (B)   Building inspection fees. Building inspection fees are $10 for each
required inspection.
   (C)   Rezoning and variance fees. Rezoning and variance fees are $25 plus
any required publication/advertisement fee.
    (D)   Home occupation permit fees. Home occupation permits are $25 per
permit.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 11-13-2023)
INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 152.35 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around, or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this Building Code or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this Building Code and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.36 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work cooperatively
to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire
safety laws. The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.50 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees, and inspection fees owed pursuant to 152.24)
to the Building Commissioner, the Building Commissioner may withhold the
issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time that the debt is
satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permit(s) until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.51 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
    (A)   The application, plans, or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
   (B)   The application, plans, or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
   (C)   There is failure to comply with the Building Code; and
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.52 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   The owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   State the conditions under which construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this Building Code or any
state law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this Building Code or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will substantially difficult to correct the violation; and/
or
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this Building Code.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.53 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this Building Code.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.54 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this Building Code shall
have the right to petition for review of any order of the Building
Commissioner. Such a person may file a petition using either, or both, of the
following procedures:
      (1)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
          (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this Building Code
may appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
town that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12 through 22-15, a fire safety
or a building rule.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 Structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
         (d)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this Building Code.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any
statute in which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the
order.
      (2)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, a person aggrieved by a decision of the
Building Department may appeal as in other civil actions. The appellant must,
by registered mail, give the Town Council President a 15-day written notice of
his or her intention to appeal. This notice must concisely state the
appellant’s grievance. If, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the town has established
by ordinance to hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person
aggrieved by an order may petition for review with this administrative body in
accordance with said ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, then the
person may petition a court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 152.65 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the State Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles of I.A.C.
Title 675 are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall include
any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   Article 13: Building Codes:
      (2)   Article 14: State Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16: State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17: State Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18: State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19: State Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20: State Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22: State Fire Code;
      (9)   Article 25: State Fuel Gas Code; and
      (10)   Article 28: NFPA Standards.
   (B)   Two copies of the above rules incorporated by reference are on file in
the office of the clerk for the legislative body for public inspection as
required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this Building Code. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance
granted by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been
approved by Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
§ 152.66 USE OF ENGINEERED ROOF TRUSSES AND FLOOR JOINTS.
   (A)   This section applies only to new construction of a Class 1 structure
and a Class 2 structure.
   (B)   (1)   As used in this section, ENGINEERED LUMBER ROOF TRUSSES AND/OR
FLOOR JOISTS refers to a structural assembly that:
         (a)   Is fabricated from:
            1.   Wood;
            2.   Light gauge metal;
            3.   Other component materials; or
            4.   Any combination of materials described in divisions (B)(1)
(a)1. through (B)(1)(a)3. above.
         (b)   Has less mass cross-sectional area than sawn lumber members that
would be used in an equivalent application;
         (c)   Is assembled from combustible or non-combustible materials, or
both; and
         (d)   Is not a vertical member and supports a roof or floor, or both.
      (2)   The term does not include a structural assembly that provides a
minimum of one-hour fire resistance when tested in accordance with ASTM
Standard E119.
   (C)   As used in this section, OWNER means a person having control or
custody of any structure to which this section applies.
   (D)   (1)   A structure that contains engineered lumber roof trusses and/or
floor joists must have a placard affixed to the structure that meets the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   The placard shall use yellow coding and lettering that identifies
both of the following:
         (a)   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and floor joists
used in the structure, including truss or engineered lumber; and
         (b)   The location of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists used in the structure, including floor joists or truss roof systems.
      (3)   The placard may not be:
         (a)   Smaller than three and one-half inches by four and one-half
inches; or
         (b)   Larger than five inches by five and one-half inches.
      (4)   The placard must be permanently affixed:
         (a)   Below the structure’s electrical meter, if the structure has
electrical service; or
         (b)   On the left side of the front entrance four to six feet above
the ground, if the structure does not have electrical service.
      (5)   (a)   An applicant for a building permit must indicate on the
application:
            1.   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists used in the structure; and
            2.   The location of the engineered lumber roof trusses and/or
floor joists used in the structure.
         (b)   The application form for a building permit must include a place
on the form for providing the information under division (D)(5)(a) above.
      (6)   (a)   An applicant for a building permit shall not be issued a
building permit unless the individual at the time of the application is issued
a placard by the Building Commissioner.
         (b)   A fee, not to exceed $5, shall be charged for each placard
issued.
      (7)   Unless a placard affixed to the structure meets the requirements of
this section, the Building Commissioner shall not:
         (a)   Approve a structure on final inspection; or
         (b)   Issue a certificate of occupancy for a structure.
      (8)   (a)   Not later than ten business days after issuing a building
permit, the Building Commissioner shall send written notification to the local
Fire Department and the 911 telephone call center that has jurisdiction in the
area where the structure is located. The notification shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
         (b)   The notification must include the following information:
            1.   The street address of the property;
            2.   The name of the township and county in which the structure is
located;
            3.   The types of engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists used in the structure; and
            4.   The location of the engineered lumber roof trusses and/or
floor joists by area within the structure.
       (9)   Upon receiving a copy of the notification under division (D)(8)
above, the Chief of the Fire Department or the Chief’s designee shall:
         (a)   Post the information in a conspicuous place for all emergency
personnel;
         (b)   Provide the information to any fire department providing mutual
aid; and
         (c)   For Class 1 structures only, add the structure to the inspection
file for follow up on a timely basis for inspection.
      (10)   Upon receiving a notification under division (D)(8) above, the 911
telephone call center shall maintain the information on each property, by the
address of the property, that uses engineered lumber roof trusses and/or floor
joists. When dispatching to the listed address, the dispatcher shall notify the
responding units of the information.
      (11)   An owner of a structure shall ensure that the placard remains
affixed to the structure during the life of the structure.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this Building Code may be
subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary
penalty shall in no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere
in this Building Code.
   (B)   If the Building Commissioner provides written notice to an owner that
the owner has failed to install or maintain a placard on the structure in
violation of §
152.66, and the owner fails to correct the violation not later than ten
business days after receiving the written notice, the owner is liable for a
civil penalty of not more than $100 per day during the period beginning ten
business days after the owner receives written notice of the violation from the
unit and until the date the violation is corrected. A penalty imposed under
this section may not exceed $3,000 per structure, per year.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Types of buildings and structures permitted
   
153.02   Occupancy area
   
153.03   Lot width
   
153.04   Required living area
   
153.05   Side and rear lines
   
153.06   Setbacks
   
153.07   Real estate value
   
153.08   Applicable lands
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 TYPES OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES PERMITTED.
   In the Residential District, no building or premises shall be used and no
building shall be hereafter erected or structurally altered or building moved
into said town unless otherwise provided in this chapter, except for one or
more of the following uses:
   (A)   One- or two-family dwellings;
   (B)   Churches;
   (C)   Schools;
   (D)   Funeral homes;
   (E)   Hospitals or nursing homes as recognized by the medical profession or
state law;
   (F)   Apartment houses;
   (G)   Institutions of an educational civic or philanthropic nature;
   (H)   Public park buildings; or
   (I)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the above
uses when located on the same lot and not involving the conduct of business.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 OCCUPANCY AREA.
   No building with its accessory building shall occupy in excess of 40% of the
area of an interior lot and not in excess of 40% of a corner lot.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 LOT WIDTH.
   No dwelling or group of dwellings shall hereafter be erected or altered to
provide less than 50 feet of lot width for each family except that a single-
family dwelling may be erected on any lot having a width of less than 50 feet
provided that such lot shall have been duly recorded in a plat or deed in the
County Recorder’s Office, prior to the passage of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 REQUIRED LIVING AREA.
   No dwelling shall hereafter be erected or altered to provide less than 920
square feet of living area on the first floor of such building.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 SIDE AND REAR LINES.
   No building shall hereafter be erected or altered in such district so that
any part thereof extends within 20 feet of the street line or within ten feet
of the rear line or within six feet of either side line, excepting that a
garage or other out-building may be built within three feet of either side line
or rear line.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 SETBACKS.
   Where two or more buildings on either side of the street between two
intersection streets are located so as to establish a setback line greater or
less than above required, no new building or any part thereof, and no
alteration of an existing lot shall project beyond such setback line.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 REAL ESTATE VALUE.
   No building shall hereafter be erected in or transferred into the
residential district of the town the interior of which building or structure is
made and constructed of unfinished or use material and which by reason of its
type, plan, or construction will materially lessen or tend to lessen the value
of other real estate in or near the same vicinity, or which is not placed when
moved or constructed, on a solid foundation of cement, brick, building blocks,
or other similar material.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 APPLICABLE LANDS.
   This chapter shall apply to any lands hereafter annexed to and which may
become a part of the town at any future date, and the land is so annexed that
it shall be bound the same as they would have been bound had they been a part
of the incorporated town at the time of the passage of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or fail to comply therewith or with any of the requirements
thereof or with any of the provisions contained in the building permit issued,
or who shall build, alter, or occupy any building or premises in violation of
any detailed statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder shall, for
each and every violation or non-compliance, be guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $300, and each day such
violation shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The
owner or owners of any building or premises or any part thereof, or anything in
violation of this chapter which exists, and any architect, builder, contractor,
agent, person, or corporation employed in connection therewith and who may
assist in the committing of such violation shall be guilty of a separate
offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided herein. Any
building erected, raised, converted on land or premises used in violation of
the provisions of this chapter or any of the requirements thereof is hereby
declared to be a common nuisance and as such, may be abated in such manner as
nuisances are now or may hereafter be abated under existing law.
(Ord. passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
R. –   10-16-2003  Authorizing the execution and delivery of the
                     subordination agreement.
–      10-16-2003  Subordination agreement between the town and the Aviation
                     Board of the town.
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
67-1     8-22-1967   Annexing Southeast Quarter of Section 28, Township 25
                     North, Range 3 East.
72-1     8-7-1972    Annexing Northeast Quarter of Section 33, Township 25
                     North, Range 3 East.
72-2     8-7-1972    Annexing southeast corner of the Southwest Quarter of
                     Section, Township 25 North, Range 3 East.
73-1     6-4-1973    Annexing southeast corner of Southwest Quarter of Section
                     28, Township 25 North, Range 3 East.
                     Annexing 20 acres off the north end of the east half of
                     the Northeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 25 North,
2024-02  10-14-2024  Range 3 East, except of strip of land off the north side
                     already sold to Cass County for a right-of-way grant for
                     the widening of State Road 15.
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
65-2     7-7-1965    Granting franchise to Kokomo Gas and Fuel Company.
–      9-1-1913    Granting franchise to Traction Light and Power Company.
–      5-3-1965    Granting franchise to Kokomo Gas and Fuel Company.
                    
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2012-2   5-14-2012   Vacating alley running north and south along a line
                     between lots 16 and 17 of the Thomas Addition.
                     Vacating southern part of West Street, northern part of
2023-05  8-14-2023   West Street, west part of West Street, east part of North
                     Street, and a driveway on North Street
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section               Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.12
1-1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08
1-1-7-1                    93.38
3-10-7-3                   30.01
4-21.5-3-7                 152.54
5-2-1-9(f)                 31.30
5-2-8-2                    72.08
5-11-1-27(e)               33.01
5-11-10                    33.03
5-14-3-8(d)                32.20
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A)        32.38
8-14-1-1(4)                32.41
8-14-1-1(5)                32.41
8-14-1-1(7)                32.41
8-22-2                     32.38
8-22-3-1                   32.38
8-22-3-2                   32.38
8-23-1-26                  93.16
8-23-5                     32.38
9-22-1-1                   93.17;
                           93.19
9-22-1-3                   93.15
9-22-1-4                   93.18
9-22-1-5 through 21        93.20
9-22-1-27                  93.22
9-22-1-30                  93.22
9-22-1-32                  93.21
14-16-1-23                 72.22
22-9.5-1 et seq.           97.01
22-9.5-2-2                 97.02
22-9.5-2-3                 97.02
22-9.5-2-4                 97.02
22-9.5-2-8                 97.02
22-9.5-2-9                 97.02
22-9.5-2-11                97.02
22-9.5-2-13                97.02
22-9.5-3                   97.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.           97.10
22-9.5-4-8                 97.11
22-9.5-5                   97.02
22-9.5-5-1                 97.03
22-9.5-6                   97.11
22-9.5-8                   97.02
22-12 through 22-15        152.54
22-12-1-4                  152.03
22-12-1-5                  152.03
22-12-1-7                  152.03
22-12-1-14                 152.03
22-12-1-16                 152.03
22-12-1-17                 152.03
22-12-1-18                 152.03
22-12-1-26                 152.03
22-12-7                    152.05
22-13-2-3(b)               152.65
22-13-2-6                  152.04
22-13-2-7                  152.54
22-13-2-7(b)               152.65
22-13-2-9                  152.04
22-13-2-11                 152.05
22-15-3                    152.21
22-15-4                    152.04
35-32-2-4                  131.99
35-45-4-1                  111.17;
                           111.38
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)         51.99
36-1-5-4                   33.04;
                           152.65
36-1-6-4                   152.53
36-1-6-9                   152.54
36-1-20.2                  33.04
36-1-21                    33.04
36-2-4-8                   93.40
36-4-6-11                  33.04
36-4-8                     33.03
36-5-2-9.4                 33.04
36-7-8-9                   152.54
36-7-9                     150.01
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 150.02
36-7-9-2                   150.05
36-7-9-4                   150.05
36-7-9-9                   150.08
36-7-9-14                  150.07
36-7-10.1-3(d)             93.37
36-8-3-20                  31.30
36-8-3-22                  31.30
36-8-3-23                  31.30
36-8-17                    152.36
36-9-15.5                  32.37
36-9-25-11                 52.094
36-9-26-2                  32.40
36-10-3                    31.17
36-10-3 et seq.            31.17
36-10-3-4.1                31.17
36-10-3-5                  31.17
36-10-3-6                  31.17
                           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
-        10-16-2003  TSO Table I
2012-1   5-14-2012   33.04
2022-01  2-7-2022    33.07–
                     33.12
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
—      - -         11.01
                     131.01—
—      - -         131.05;
                     131.99
                     153.01—
—      - -         153.08;
                     153.99
                     90.01—
1-2005   - -         90.08;
                     90.99
72-4     - -         32.35
                     72.01—
2012-5   - -         72.08;
                     72.99
                     152.01—
                     152.05;
                     152.20—
                     152.23;
                     152.35;
2015-1   - -         152.36;
                     152.50—
                     152.54;
                     152.65;
                     152.66;
                     152.99
                     96.01—
2015-5   - -         96.08;
                     96.99
                     112.01—
2015-6   - -         112.05;
                     112.99
                     130.55—
2016-19  - -         130.59;
                     130.99
2018-06  - -         31.30;
                     31.31
2020-01  - -         97.01—
                     97.11
                     130.01—
                     130.05;
                     130.20—
10       1-9-1905    130.22;
                     130.24—
                     130.28;
                     130.99
31       1-16-1905   110.03;
                     110.99
—      1-23-1905   132.01;
                     132.99
17       1-23-1905   31.16
18       1-23-1905   130.99
19       1-23-1905   50.02;
                     50.99
21       1-23-1905   70.03;
                     70.99
22       1-23-1905   94.01
23       1-23-1905   70.04;
                     70.99
24       1-23-1905   112.20—
                     112.22
25       1-23-1905   110.02;
                     110.04
14       1-25-1905   110.04
28       9-21-1905   32.03
32       5-1-1907    92.02
35       4-15-1912   93.01;
                     93.99
36       2-3-1913    TSO Table III
38       6-2-1913    94.03;
                     94.99
—      9-1-1913    TSO Table III
39       9-21-1914   110.02;
                     110.99
40       3-25-1915   TSO Table III
41       4-12-1915   94.02;
                     94.99
—      10-1-1941   132.01;
                     132.99
                     151.01—
57-1     4-1-1957    151.06;
                     151.99
61       2-6-1961    110.01
64-3     7-6-1964    73.99
—      5-3-1965    TSO Table III
65-2     7-7-1965    32.36
65-2     7-7-1965    TSO Table III
67-1     8-22-1967   TSO Table II
67-3     10-2-1967   70.01;
                     70.99
72-1     8-7-1972    TSO Table II
72-2     8-7-1972    TSO Table II
73-1     6-4-1973    TSO Table II
                     52.001—
                     52.008;
                     52.020—
                     52.025;
                     52.040—
81-4     11-2-1981   52.043;
                     52.055—
                     52.069;
                     52.080—
                     52.092;
                     52.999
82-4     12-6-1982   33.06
                     132.15—
84-3     9-4-1984    132.27;
                     132.99
25       1-1-1985    10.15
                     73.01—
87-2     5-4-1987    73.04;
                     73.99
—      4-1-1991    52.091
85-2     4-1-1991    52.091
91-3     12-2-1991   70.02;
                     70.99
93-4     9-7-1993    130.26;
                     130.99
94-2     6-6-1994    95.01;
                     95.99
                     130.40—
98-5     1-5-1998    130.43;
                     130.99
99-1     2-1-1999    132.16
99-4     6-7-1999    70.02;
                     70.99
99-5     7-12-1999   31.15
2000-6   8-7-2000    32.39
2000-8   11-6-2000   130.06
2001-01  1-8-2001    92.01;
                     92.99
                     71.01—
2002-3   10-7-2002   71.03;
                     71.99;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I
—      8-4-2003    52.062
—      10-16-2003  TSO Table I
2006-02  5-1-2006    52.091
2006-03  5-1-2006    50.99
2006-4   5-1-2006    50.01
2006-5   8-7-2006    52.093
                     111.01;
                     111.02;
                     111.15—
2006-6   10-2-2006   111.24;
                     111.35—
                     111.39;
                     111.99
2008-3   8-4-2008    52.009
                     51.15—
2008-4   8-4-2008    51.22;
                     51.99
2008-5   9-8-2008    51.02;
                     51.99
2011-03  11-7-2011   10.99
2012-2   5-14-2012   TSO Table IV
2012-3   5-14-2012   32.01
                     150.01—
2013-3   2-20-2013   150.08;
                     150.99
4-2013   10-7-2013   50.99
5-2013   10-7-2013   52.091
6-2013   10-7-2013   52.094
7-2013   10-7-2013   50.01
1-2014   4-7-2014    71.04
2-2014   4-7-2014    73.99
4-2014   5-12-2014   93.15—
                     93.22
                     70.99;
                     71.99;
2014-7   6-2-2014    73.99;
                     90.99;
                     93.99;
                     95.99
2014-9   8-4-2014    50.03
2-2015   - -2015     93.02
2015-3   10-5-2015   33.05
2015-4   10-5-2015   97.01—
                     97.11
2015-7   10-21-2015  32.40
2016-2   3-7-2016    31.01
2016-4   3-7-2016    33.03
2016-5   3-7-2016    50.03;
                     50.99
2016-01  5-2-2016    33.02
2016-7   5-2-2016    33.01
2016-8   5-2-2016    32.55—
                     32.61
2016-6   6-6-2016    32.38
2016-6A  6-6-2016    32.37
2016-9   10-3-2016   32.04
2016-10  10-3-2016   52.094
2016-16  12-5-2016   31.32
2016-17  12-5-2016   32.02
2016-18  12-5-2016   32.05
                     93.35—
17-03    9-11-2017   93.40;
                     93.99
2017-09  12-4-2017   52.091
2018-01  2-5-2018    30.01
2018-02  7-2-2018    32.40
2018-03  8-6-2018    32.20
2019-01  5-13-2019   32.41
2019-03  8-5-2019    92.03;
                     92.99
                     72.02;
2019-04  11-11-2019  72.08;
                     72.09
2020-02  6-1-2020    33.05
2020-05  12-7-2020   50.99
2021-03  10-4-2021   33.13
2022-02  6-6-2022    51.01
                     91.01—
2022-03  6-6-2022    91.08;
                     91.99
2023-01  1-9-2023    110.04
                     72.20—
2023-02  1-9-2023    72.22;
                     72.99
2023-03  2-22-2023   51.03;
                     51.99
2023-04  6-12-2023   31.17
2023-05  8-14-2023   TSO Table IV
2023-06  10-9-2023   95.02
2023-07  11-13-2023  152.24
2023-08  11-13-2023  32.75—
                     32.77
2023-09  12-21-2023  31.02; 33.08—33.12
2024-01  6-10-2024   Adopting Ordinance
2024-02  10-14-2024  TSO Table II
                     31.02;
2024-04  12-9-2024   33.08—
                     33.12
2025-01  4-14-2025   32.37
                    
 
