GEORGETOWN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. G-24-01, passed 1-22-2024
State legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. #3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. G-18-15
ADOPTING ORDINANCE: AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE TOWN OF GEORGETOWN, INDIANA, REVISING, AMENDING,
RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF GEORGETOWN, INDIANA DEALING WITH
SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCE,
AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the Georgetown Town Council ("Town Council") is the entity responsible
for codification of Ordinances for the Town of Georgetown under 36-1-5.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of
Georgetown, Indiana are inadequately arranged and classified and are
insufficient in form and substance for the complete preservation of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the Town and for the proper
conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislation of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinance into one ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Georgetown has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Political
Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance
in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Town Clerk shall maintain two (2) copies of the book form of the
Code on file in the Clerk's Office for public inspection; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the Town
and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an early
date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF GEORGETOWN,
INDIANA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Georgetown as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Georgetown,
Indiana."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
10.   General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMIN1STRATION
30.   Body of Government; Officials
31.   Town Organizations
32.   Town Policies; Purchasing
33.   Finances
34.   Personnel
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
50.   General Regulations
51.   Solid Waste Regulations
52.   Water Regulations
53.   Sewer Regulations
54.   Internet Services
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
70.   General Regulations
71.   Parking Regulations
72.   Traffic Schedules
73.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
90.   Animals
91.   Health and Sanitation; Environment
92.   Fair Housing
93.   Streets and Sidewalks
94.   Parks and Recreation
2021 S-1
   Adopting Ordinance   3
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
110.   Reserved
111.   Food and Beverage Establishments
112.   Amusements; Places of Amusement
113.   Peddlers. Solicitors, and Canvassers
114.   Tattoo and Body Piercing
115.   Bed and Breakfasts; Food Establishments
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
130.   Public Safety
131.   Weapons
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
150.   General Regulations
151.   Building Code
152.   Unsafe Building Code
153.   Storm Water Protection
154.   Flood Hazard Areas
155.   Mobile Homes
156.   Construction and Improvements
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES (RESERVED)
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 2005 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchise, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of Georgetown is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the Clerk and the Office of the Floyd County Recorder.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all Courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect immediately upon
adoption by the Town Council.
   Adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Georgetown, Indiana this 17th day
of December, 2018.
 
TOWN COUNCIL, TOWN OF GEORGETOWN, INDIANA
Voting Aye:                  Voting Nay:
/s/ Everett Pullen
Everett Pullen, President            Everett Pullen, President
/s/ Chris Loop                                                          
Chris Loop, Vice President            Chris Loop, Vice President
/s/Kathy Haller                                                          
Kathy Haller, Member            Kathy Haller, Member
/s/ Joshua Cavanaugh                                                          
Joshua Cavanaugh, Member         Joshua Cavanaugh, Member
/s/ Gary Smith                                                          
Gary Smith, Member            Gary Smith, Member
 
Attested by:
/s/ Julia Keibler
Julia Keibler, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Georgetown Town Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(2005 Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(2005 Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted, amending, or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(2005 Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law, or amendment
thereto, reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to the
various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as originally
enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by the
compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official publication,
to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings are for
organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application, or
construction of the law they precede. Each note following a section of this
code is for reference purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5) (2005 Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Floyd County.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to, and includes, person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Georgetown, Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5) (2005 Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless: the remainder is so essentially
and inseparably connected with and so dependent upon the invalid provision or
application that it cannot be presumed that the remainder would have been
enacted without the invalid provision or application; or the remainder is
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the legislative
intent without the invalid provision or application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8) (2005 Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(2005 Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1) (2005 Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
(2005 Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
(2005 Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture, or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1) (2005 Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
(2005 Code, § 10.12)
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(2005 Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
(2005 Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. G-60-10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. G-70-15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. G-80-20,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. G-85-25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
(2005 Code, § 10.15)
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in 2005 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(2005 Code, §
     )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
(2005 Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following: a fine not exceeding $2,500 for the
first violation; and a fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent
violations, except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(2005 Code, § 10.99)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BODY OF GOVERNMENT; OFFICIALS
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   TOWN POLICIES; PURCHASING
      
33.   FINANCES
      
34.   PERSONNEL
CHAPTER 30: BODY OF GOVERNMENT; OFFICIALS
Section
Government
   
30.01   Voting districts
   
30.02   Voter registration required for elections
   
30.03   Nomination of a candidate for town office by primary election
Elected Officials
   
30.15   Elected officials
   
30.16   Town Council and Clerk-Treasurer duties and responsibilities; Town
Council President; Town Council Vice-President
   
30.17   Town Council rules of procedure
   
30.18   Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.19   (Reserved)
   
30.20   Town Marshal
Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.35   Fiscal officer; authority to make claim payments in advance
   
30.36   Authority to make claim payments subject to interest
   
30.37   Authority to adjust utility bills
GOVERNMENT
§ 30.01 VOTING DISTRICTS.
   The town shall be divided into the following voting districts for the
purpose of electing town officers:
   (A)   District One. Beginning at the southwest corner of the intersection of
Bennett-Kelly Road and Kepley Road (said intersection being along the northern
boundary line of the town), the true point of beginning for District One of the
town; thence south along the west side of Kepley Road to the southwest corner
of Kepley Road and Autumn Drive; thence east by southeast along the south side
of Autumn Drive to the end of Autumn Drive at the rear entrance to Georgetown
Elementary School; thence south along the east property line of Georgetown
Elementary School (also the west side of Bowman Drive), continuing along and
following the boundary of the school property and entrance drive (also known as
Merry Way) to the intersection of State Road 64 and Merry Way; thence east
along the south side of State Road 64 to the west side of Canal Lane; thence
south along the west side of Canal Lane to Georgetown Creek (said creek also
being along the southern boundary line of the town); thence east along the
southern boundary of the town to County Line Road (west boundary line of the
town); thence north along the west boundary of the town to the intersection of
County Line Road and Wolfe Cemetery Road (said intersection also being the
northwest corner of the town); thence east along the northern boundary of the
town to the southwest corner of Bennett-Kelly Road and Kepley Road, being the
true point of beginning for District One for the town;
   (B)   District Two. Beginning at the southeast corner of the intersection of
Bennett-Kelly Road and Kepley Road (said intersection being along the northern
boundary of the town), the true point of beginning for District Two of the
town; thence south along the east side of Kepley Road to the northeast corner
of Kepley Road and Autumn Drive; thence east by northeast along the north side
of Autumn Drive to the end of Autumn Drive at the rear entrance to Georgetown
Elementary School (also the west side of Bowman Drive); thence south along the
east property line of Georgetown Elementary School, continuing along and
following the boundary of the school property and entrance drive (also known as
Merry Way) to the intersection of State Road 64 and Merry Way; thence east
along the north side of State Road 64 to the southwest corner of Henriott Road
and State Road 64; thence north along the west side of Henriott Road to the
northeast corner of Henriott Road and Frank Ott Road; thence east along the
north side of Frank Ott Road to a point near the intersection of Frank Ott Road
and Cedar Circle (said point also being the east property line of 7760 Frank
Ott Road); thence north along the east property line of 7760 Frank Ott Road
continuing along the east boundary line of the Orchard View Subdivision to the
northeast corner of the Orchard View Subdivision; thence west along north
boundary line of the Orchard View Subdivision to Kepley Road; thence south
along the east side of Henriott Road to the intersection of Henriott Road,
Winstewart Road, and Frank Ott Road; thence west along Winstewart Road to the
southeast corner of the Meadowbrook Subdivision; thence north along the east
boundary line of the Meadowbrook Subdivision to the northeast corner of the
Meadowbrook Subdivision; thence west along the north boundary line of the
Meadowbrook Subdivision to Canal Lane; thence along the east side of Canal Lane
to the north property line of 2001 Canal Lane; thence west along the north
property line of 2001 Canal Lane to the northwest corner of said property;
thence south along the west property line of 2001 Canal Lane to the southwest
corner of said property (said corner also being a point along the northern
boundary line of the town); thence west along the northern boundary of the town
to the southeast corner of Kepley Road and Bennett-Kelly Road, being the true
point of beginning for District Two for the town; and
   (C)   District Three. Beginning at the southeast corner of Canal Lane and
State Road 64, the true point of beginning for District Three of the town;
thence east along the south side of State Road 64 to the intersection of State
Road 64 and Henriott Road; thence north along the east side of Henriott Road to
the intersection of Henriott Road and Frank Ott Road; thence east along the
south side of Frank Ott Road to the intersection of Frank Ott Road and Catalpa
Drive; thence north along the west side of Catalpa Drive continuing and
following around the boundary of the Catalpa Ridge Subdivision ending at a
point on the north side of Frank Ott Road at the intersection of Frank Ott Road
and Catalpa Road; thence south along the eastern boundary of the town (also the
eastern boundary line of Copperfield Subdivision and Copperfield Commons) to
State Road 64; thence west along State Road 64 to the intersection of
Copperfield Drive and State Road 64; thence south along the eastern boundary
line of the town to Corydon Ridge Road (said point being the southeast corner
of the Rainelle Woods Subdivision); thence southwest along the north side of
Corydon Ridge Road to the southwest corner of the Rainelle Woods Subdivision;
thence north along the eastern edge of the Rainelle Woods Subdivision and
continuing north in a meandering path to a point in the south boundary line of
the Brookstone Subdivision; thence west along the southern boundary line of the
Brookstone Subdivision to the intersection of Brookstone Way and Baylor Wissman
Road; thence north along the east side of Baylor Wissman Road to Georgetown
Creek; thence west along Georgetown Creek to Canal Lane; thence north along the
east side of Canal Lane to the southeast corner of Canal Lane and State Road
64, being the true point of beginning for District Three for the town.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f650a14c076cf71157c54a0f815e671f1b25118a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1219.jpg]
 
(2005 Code, § 30.01) (Ord. G-14-02, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 30.02 VOTER REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR ELECTIONS.
   The registration of voting shall be a necessary prerequisite to voting in
any town election after the passage of this section. Hereinafter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to vote at any general, primary, or town election held
in this town unless that person is, at the time of the election or primary, a
registered voter pursuant to the requirements of I.C. 3-7-13 and successor
statutes that may be enacted.
(2005 Code, § 30.02) (Ord. G-79-04, passed 6-11-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.03 NOMINATION OF A CANDIDATE FOR TOWN OFFICE BY PRIMARY ELECTION.
   (A)   The nomination of a candidate for town office in the Town of
Georgetown shall be conducted by a primary election.
   (B)   The primary election shall be conducted by the Floyd County Election
Board, and all statutes governing primary elections for towns shall apply.
(Ord. G-18-14, passed 12-20-2018)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.15 ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The Town Council, also known as the Council, governs the town and
exercises both the legislative and executive functions of government. The
Council may exercise any power it has to the extent that the power is not
expressly denied by the state’s constitution or by statute, and is not
expressly granted to another entity, per I.C. 36-1-3-5. In order to exercise
its power, the Council must adopt an ordinance or resolution, per I.C. 36-1-3-
6.
   (B)   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal, other employees and
counsel, as the Council deem necessary at its first meeting of the year. Any
time during the year, the Council may appoint any other persons as necessary.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer serves as town clerk and chief fiscal officer, per
I.C. 36-5-6. The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for maintaining the books for
the town’s utilities and is authorized to appoint deputies and employees
subject to authorization by the Town Council. Such employees serve at the
pleasure of the Clerk-Treasurer, per I.C. 36-5-6-7.
   (D)   The Town Council shall provide office space to the Clerk-Treasurer for
his or her staff and for the town’s records, per I.C. 36-5-6-5.1. The Council
shall set the hours of operation of the Town Hall. There are no limitations to
the number of terms an elected town official may serve. All elected officials
must reside in the town and the district in which they are selected. If any
elected official moves out of his or her district or the town itself, he or she
will forfeit his or her office.
(Ord. G-09-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 30.16 TOWN COUNCIL AND CLERK-TREASURER DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES; TOWN
COUNCIL PRESIDENT; TOWN COUNCIL VICE-PRESIDENT.
   (A)   All Town Council members and the Clerk-Treasurer must:
      (1)   Perform all duties and responsibilities allowed under the state’s
Home Rule, per I.C. 36-1-3-5, and the town’s ordinances;
      (2)   Keep informed of all town ordinances;
      (3)   Keep informed of the town’s Personnel Policies Manual;
      (4)   Fully participate in Council meetings and other public forums while
demonstrating respect, consideration, and courtesy to others;
      (5)   Prepare in advance of Council meetings and be familiar with issues
on the agenda;
      (6)   Stay focused and act efficiently during public meetings;
      (7)   Participate in scheduled activities to increase team effectiveness
and review Council procedures;
      (8)   Participate in the town’s yearly budget review;
      (9)   Follow the proper chain of command in regards to management of town
employees;
      (10)   Refrain from disrupting or interfering with the individual actions
of town employees, except the Clerk-Treasurer may exercise management over
employees in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office;
      (11)   Not solicit political support from town employees or engage in
conduct that violates I.C. 35-44.1;
      (12)   Demonstrate honesty and integrity in every action and statement;
      (13)   Inspire public confidence in the town’s government;
      (14)   Serve as a model of leadership and civility to the community;
      (15)   Represent the town at ceremonial functions at the request of the
Town Council President; and
      (16)   Attend a “Newly Elected Officials” training seminar, sponsored by
the Indiana Association of Cities and Towns (IACT) or similar training
conducted by the town officials, at least once per elected term.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Council President:
         (a)   Shall be elected by the Town Council to serve a one-year term
beginning January 1 and ending at the first Council meeting the following
January, with no limit upon the number of times a Council member can be elected
President of the Council, per I.C. 36-5-2-7, and upon resignation, the Town
Council shall elect a President at its next Council meeting;
         (b)   Is the town’s chief executive officer, per I.C. 36-5-2-2;
         (c)   May revoke or suspend any license issued by the town if the
person holding the license has violated the terms or conditions of the license
or of the law under which it was issued, per I.C. 36-5-4-11;
         (d)   Appoints members to the Planning and Zoning and the Board of
Zoning Appeals, per I.C. 36-7-4-207 through 36-7-4-216 and I.C. 36-7-4-902;
         (e)   Appoints a member to the River Hills Economic Development
District with the Town Council approval;
         (f)   Appoints a safety representative per OSHA rules and regulations;
         (g)   Reviews and revises the town yearly budget estimate, per I.C.
36-5-3-3;
         (h)   Signs documents on behalf of the town;
         (I)   Chairs Council meetings;
         (j)   Approves the agenda for the Council meetings;
         (k)   Serves as the highest elected official during declared state-of-
emergencies;
         (l)   Serves as the liaison between the Council and the Clerk-
Treasurer, Public Works Director, Town Marshal, Town Attorney and other town
officials in regards to employee relations;
         (m)   Serves as Chairperson of the Human Resources Committee;
         (n)   Serves as official delegate of the town;
         (o)   Recommends subcommittees as appropriate for Council approval;
         (p)   Acts as spokesperson for the town;
         (q)   Acts as the official head of the town for all ceremonial
purposes;
         (r)   Selects substitutes for town representation when the President
cannot attend; and
         (s)   Leads the Council into an effective, cohesive working team.
      (2)   The Town Council President will chair official meetings of the Town
Council, unless the Vice-President or another Council member is designated as
Chair of a specific meeting, per I.C. 36-5-2-7. Duties of the Chair include:
         (a)   Maintaining order, decorum, and the fair and equitable treatment
of all speakers;
         (b)   Keeps discussion and questions focused on specific agenda item
under consideration; and
         (c)   Makes parliamentary rulings with advice, if requested, from the
Town Attorney who acts as an advisory parliamentarian, which rulings may be
overturned by a majority of the Council.
   (C)   The Town Council Vice-President:
      (1)   Shall be elected by the Town Council to serve a one-year term
beginning January 1 and ending at the first Council meeting the following
January, with no limit upon the number of times he or she can be elected Vice-
President of the Council;
      (2)   Performs the duties of the President if the President is absent or
disabled;
      (3)   Represents the town at ceremonial functions at the request of the
President;
      (4)   Chairs Council meetings at the request of the President; and
      (5)   Serves as Vice-Chairperson of the Human Resources Committee.
(Ord. G-09-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 30.17 TOWN COUNCIL RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The rules of procedure for the Town Council are as follows.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Town Council is required to hold its first regular meeting in
January after the town election, per I.C. 36-4-6-7.
      (2)   The Council shall establish the time and day of its regular monthly
meetings during the first meeting of the year.
      (3)   Special Council meetings may be called by the Town Council
President when necessary; or by a vote of three or more members of the Council.
      (4)   Public notice of meetings must be given at least 48 hours before
the meeting starts, per I.C. 5-14-1.5-5.
      (5)   All meetings shall adhere to and are subject to the state’s Open
Door Law, I.C. 5-14-1.5.
      (6)   A majority of all the elected members of the Council constitutes a
quorum for conducting business, per I.C. 36-5-2-9.2.
      (7)   When the quorum of the Council is only four members, the Clerk-
Treasurer is an ex officio member of the Council solely for the purpose of
casting the deciding vote to break a tie, per I.C. 36-5-2-8.
      (8)   An agenda shall be used for all regular Council meetings. Such
agenda must be posted outside the meeting room and made available to the
public, per I.C. 5-14-1.5-4.
      (9)   An agenda does not have to be used for special Council meetings,
per I.C. 5-14-1.5-4.
      (10)   During meetings, the Chair may only add additional business to the
agenda upon the approval of a simple majority of the Council members.
      (11)   The most recent edition of Robert’s Rule of Order shall be the
authority on all questions of parliamentary law and procedure not specifically
covered by this section.
      (12)   All matters of a general and ongoing nature which establish fees,
which regulate conduct, which prescribe penalties, or which are required by
statute to be addressed by ordinance, shall be submitted in the form of an
ordinance.
      (13)   Declarations of position by the Council and items of a special and
nonrecurring, which are not required by statute to be addressed by ordinance,
shall be submitted in the form of a resolution.
      (14)   Matters not otherwise addressed by ordinance or resolution may be
considered by motion.
      (15)   When introducing ordinances and resolutions, its entire text must
be read during the public meeting, unless, copies of the ordinances and
resolutions are made available to the public. If so, then only the caption is
required to be read. A rule, regulation, ordinance, or other final action
adopted by reference to agenda number or item alone is void per I.C. 5-14-1.5-
4.
      (16)   All ordinances and resolutions shall be presented in written form
only.
      (17)   Motions may be requested to be in written form, as instead of
orally, by members of the Council.
      (18)   Ordinances, with the exception of a zoning ordinance or amendment
to a zoning ordinance, require two readings and votes on two different days and
meetings, with the second reading and vote to be binding with a majority yes
vote; unless a two-thirds vote of all the elected members (four members), after
unanimous consent of the members present to consider the ordinance or
resolution, vote yes, then the ordinance or resolution can be passed on the
same day and same meeting at which it is introduced, per I.C. 36-5-2-9.
Unanimous consent is always presumed, unless a Council member makes an
objection to consideration.
      (19)   A zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance must comply
with I.C. 36-7-4-602.
      (20)   To amend or repeal an ordinance or resolution, it requires the
same procedure as to pass an ordinance or resolution.
      (21)   All motions shall be restated by the Chair, before asking for a
second, and allowing debate.
      (22)   All motions shall be restated by the Chair, before a vote is
taken.
      (23)   Council members shall abstain from a vote of a motion, ordinance,
or resolution if there exists a substantial conflict with the member’s personal
or pecuniary interests and the subject matter under consideration. The Council
member must fully disclose the nature of the conflict of interest to the Chair.
The Chair shall rule if a conflict of interest exists and if no conflict exists
the Chair may compel the member to vote yes or no.
      (24)   A call to question motion shall be proper when each member has had
the opportunity to address the issue under debate. A call to question motion
doesn’t require a second and, upon said motion, all debate ceases and a vote of
the motion are taken.
      (25)   There will be time allotted at the beginning and ending of the
meeting for public comments.
      (26)   The Chair, upon recognizing a member of the public, shall limit
the time allowed to address the Council to no more than five minutes, unless a
majority of the Council members present vote to extend such time period.
      (27)   No member of the public may speak twice on the same subject unless
every one had an opportunity to speak and then a three-minute time limit is
imposed. A majority of the Council members present may vote to extend the
allotted time.
      (28)   A member of the public may request to be put on the agenda for the
following meeting should any comments or questions require extra consideration.
      (29)   Except during the public comments period, the Chair has the
prerogative to allow or not allow public input during meetings and reserves the
right to limit any and all public input, unless the meeting is a hearing where
public input is required.
      (30)   The sergeant-of-arms shall be the Police Chief or, in his or her
absence, a member of the town’s Police Department.
      (31)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall attend all meetings and make and keep
accurate minutes or, in his or her absence, one of the Clerk-Treasurer’s staff,
per I.C. 36-4-6-9.
      (32)   Regular Town Council meetings shall conduct its order of business
as follows:
         (a)   Call to order;
         (b)   Pledge of Allegiance;
         (c)   Roll call;
         (d)   Approval of minutes;
         (e)   Public petitions and comments/questions of agenda items only;
         (f)   Department and committee reports;
         (g)   Unfinished business;
         (h)   New business;
         (I)   Approval of claim docket and signing of purchase orders;
         (j)   Miscellaneous business;
         (k)   Public comments of any concerns;
         (l)   Individual Council member comments;
         (m)   Announcements; and
         (n)   Adjournment.
      (33)   The Chair may modify the Council meetings in order to make the
meetings run smoothly.
   (B)   Public hearings.
      (1)   Council members will not express opinions during the public hearing
of the meeting except to ask pertinent questions of the speaker or staff.
      (2)   Council members shall refrain from argument or debate with the
pubic during a public hearing.
      (3)   The Chair will determine the length of time allowed for
presentations.
      (4)   Members of the public shall have three minutes to speak.
      (5)   The applicant or appellant shall have the right to speak first and
to make closing comments.
      (6)   The Chair may modify the public hearing in order to make the
meeting run smoothly.
   (C)   Executive sessions.
      (1)   An executive session is a meeting from which the public is
excluded, except the governing body may admit those persons necessary to carry
out its purpose, per I.C. 5-14-1.5-2(f).
      (2)   All executive sessions shall adhere to I.C. 5-14-1.5-2(f).
      (3)   An executive session cannot be conducted during a meeting, and a
meeting cannot be recessed in order to meet in executive session and then be
reconvened, per I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1.
      (4)   Public notice must be given in the same manner of a regular
meeting, with reference to the statute authorizing the executive session.
      (5)   Minutes of the executive meetings must contain a certification by
the Town Council that no subject matter was discussed other than the subject
matter specified in the public notice.
   (D)   Gatherings and serial meetings. A serial meeting is a series of small
meetings held by a governing body in an attempt to avoid the requirement of the
Open Door Laws. By definition, the Serial Meeting Law can only by violated by
governing bodies of six or more members, per I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.1. As the Town
Council has only five members, it cannot violate the Serial Meeting Law.
However, meetings of a majority of the Council, three members or more, without
public notice would violate Open Door Laws. Any Council member may call or meet
with any other Council member, as long as there are not more than two members
present at such meetings. Although not subject to the Serial Meeting Law, I.C.
5-14-1.5-3.1 recognizes that telephonic participation or texting, but not
email, may be sufficient to constitute participation at a meeting. The intent
of the Open Door Laws is to be liberally construed to assure that action is
taken openly. Accordingly, the Council members should always avoid discussion
of town matters with three or more Council members.
   (E)   Allowable meetings. Per I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.1, allowable meetings consist
of the following:
      (1)   Any social or chance gathering not intended to avoid the law;
      (2)   Any on-site inspection of any project or program, or facilities of
applicants for incentives or assistance from the Town Council;
      (3)   Traveling to and attending meetings related to better government;
      (4)   A caucus of political party members as defined under I.C. 5-14-1.5-
3.1;
      (5)   A gathering to discuss an industrial or a commercial prospect that
does not include a conclusion as to recommendations, policy, decisions, or
final action on the terms of a request or an offer of public financial
resources;
      (6)   An orientation of members of the governing body on their role and
responsibilities as public officials, but not for any other official action;
      (7)   A gathering for the sole purpose of administering an oath of office
to an individual; and
      (8)   A gathering between less than a majority of the members of the
governing body intended solely for members to receive information and
deliberate on whether a member or members may be inclined to support a member’s
proposal or a particular piece of legislation and at which no other official
action will occur.
   (F)   Chain of command. Although the town may not engage in unconstitutional
restraints upon speech, it is in the best interests of Council members to avoid
excessive interaction with the operations of the town, which is conducted by
employees. The following chain of command is, therefore, recommended for
communication between Council members and town employees.
      (1)   All employee issues should be referred to the employee’s respective
department heads.
      (2)   Any allegation of wrongdoing or substandard performance should be
addressed with great care to avoid repetition of slanderous or libelous
statements about persons affected. Information concerning alleged misconduct
may be received in executive session, and employee job performance may be
discussed in executive session.
      (3)   The Town Council President shall mediate any grievances between
town officials.
      (4)   All non-elected town officials shall report to the Town Council
President who in turn reports to the Town Council.
      (5)   The Town Council President is the chief executive officer of the
town, and with the exception of the Clerk-Treasurer, has the authority to
compel all town employees and appointed officials to perform their lawful
duties, with the exception of directing law enforcement in executing arrest
powers.
(Ord. G-09-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 30.18 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
   The powers and duties of the Clerk-Treasurer include the following:
   (A)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
   (B)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-Treasurer
has received town money and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has paid out
town money;
   (C)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
   (D)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers, and employees shall
be paid;
   (E)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments of
town money;
   (F)   Prepare for the legislative body the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements, and the proposed tax rate;
   (G)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the legislative
body;
   (H)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed by
ordinance;
   (I)   Serve as clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
   (J)   Administer oaths, take depositions, and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
   (K)   May hire or contract with competent attorneys or legal research
assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers appropriate. Appropriations
for the salaries of attorneys and legal research assistants employed shall be
approved in the annual budget and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for
the payment of attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries;
   (L)   May solemnize marriages, per I.C. 31-11-6-1;
   (M)   Ex officio member of the Town Council solely for the purpose of
casting the deciding vote to break a tie, per I.C. 36-5-2-8; and
   (N)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(Ord. G-09-01, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 30.19 (RESERVED).
§ 30.20 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Town Council at its first meeting of the year shall appoint the
Town Marshal, also known as the Chief of the Police.
   (B)   The Town Marshal is appointed to a term of one to four years with no
limits to the times he or she may be appointed to serve with the exception that
the Town Marshal’s term can’t exceed the term of office of the Council.
   (C)   The Town Marshal shall:
      (1)   Demonstrate honesty and integrity in every action and statement;
      (2)   Inspire public confidence in the town’s government;
      (3)   Serve as a model of leadership and civility to the community; and
      (4)   Not solicit political support from town employees.
(Ord. G-09-01, passed 1-6-2009)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 30.35 FISCAL OFFICER; AUTHORITY TO MAKE CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer, as the town’s fiscal officer, may make claim
payments in advance of Town Council allowance pursuant to I.C. 36-5-4-12, and
successor statutes that may be enacted, for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certifications by the fiscal officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at its next regular
or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(2005 Code, § 30.30) (Ord. G-00-01, passed 1-25-2000)
§ 30.36 AUTHORITY TO MAKE CLAIM PAYMENTS SUBJECT TO INTEREST.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town, as the fiscal officer of the town, is
hereby authorized to pay any claim(s) subject to interest charges and/or
penalties in advance of approval of the claims by the Town Council.
   (B)   The claims shall be placed upon the docket for the approval and
ratification of the Town Council at the next regular meeting of the Council.
(2005 Code, § 30.31) (Ord. G-04-12, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 30.37 AUTHORITY TO ADJUST UTILITY BILLS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to adjust utility
billing discrepancies, including, but not limited to, situations where a meter
has been turned off but no record was made that the meter was turned off, and
the customer continued to receive billings on that meter.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall obtain the concurrence of the Town Council
prior to adjusting any utility billings.
   (C)   Any utility billing discrepancies upon which the Clerk-Treasurer and
Town Council do not agree as to whether an adjustment should be made, or the
amount of the adjustment that should be made, shall be examined and resolved by
the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 30.32)
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby granted the authority to remove the name
of any deceased person from a utility bill which is in the name of either the
deceased and the spouse, or only the deceased while the spouse is continuing to
live in the house and continuing to keep the utility account current. When the
Clerk-Treasurer makes the decision to remove the name of a deceased spouse from
the town’s utility accounts, the existing deposit on the account shall remain
as current and valid; no refund followed by a new deposit from the surviving
spouse is required.
   (E)   (1)   This division (E) allows an exception for the Clerk-Treasurer,
with the review and approval by the Public Works Director, to adjust utility
bills per §§
52.04 and
52.05, and any amendments to said sections, or any other ordinance which deals
directly with the billing/credits associated with the utilities in the town.
      (2)   If a scenario comes to the Clerk-Treasurer which is not addressed
in a town ordinance, the Clerk-Treasurer shall take the matter to the Town
Council for review and decision.
      (3)   This division (E) does not give the Clerk-Treasurer the authority
to make decisions, but rather the authority to make adjustments strictly
following the ordinances adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. G-06-06, passed 1-19-2006; Ord. G-15-18, passed 8-6-2015)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Plan Commission
   
31.01   Created; members
   
31.02   Terms
   
31.03   Organization
   
31.04   Powers and duties
   
31.05   Miscellaneous responsibilities
Police Department
   
31.20   Standards for hiring a new officer
   
31.21   Reserve deputies; training requirements
   
31.22   Police officer Bill of Rights; adoption by reference
Fire Protection District
   
31.35   Intention
   
31.36   Creation of District
   
31.37   Purposes
   
31.38   Need for the District
   
31.39   Operating costs
   
31.40   Fire Protection District trustees
   
31.41   Bonds
   
31.42   Location
   
31.43   Certification
Department of Redevelopment and Redevelopment Commission
   
31.55   Department created
   
31.56   Voting members
   
31.57   Commission created
   
31.58   Qualifications of Commissioners
   
31.59   Funds and accounts
Department of Economic Development and
Economic Development Commission
   
31.65   Findings
   
31.66   Creation of Department and Commission
   
31.67   Nomination of members of Commission
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 31.01 CREATED; MEMBERS.
   (A)   A Plan Commission of the town is hereby created, which shall be known
as the Town Plan Commission.
   (B)   This Commission shall consist of nine members, as follows.
      (1)   The Town Council (legislative body) shall appoint three persons,
who must be elected or appointed municipal officials or employees in the
municipal government, as members.
      (2)   The Town Council President (town executive) shall appoint four
citizen members, of whom no more than two may be of the same political party.
      (3)   The executive of each county within the two-mile jurisdictional
area shall appoint one additional citizen member. The executive of the county
having the larger portion of the unincorporated area shall appoint its member
first, and the executive of the other county shall then appoint its member, who
must not be of the same political party.
(2005 Code, § 31.01) (Ord. G-94-16, passed - -1994)
§ 31.02 TERMS.
   (A)   The term of office of a member who is appointed from the membership of
the Town Council is coextensive with the member’s term of office on the Town
Council, unless the Town Council, at its first regular meeting in any year,
appoints another to serve as its representative.
   (B)   (1)   Of the four citizen members, all terms of members shall be for
four years.
      (2)   Each member’s term expires on the first Monday of January of the
fourth year after the year of the member’s appointment.
   (C)   (1)   For members appointed to represent the unincorporated area with
the jurisdiction, each appointment is for a term of four years.
      (2)   The additional citizen members are entitled to participate and vote
in all deliberations of the Municipal Plan Commission.
   (D)   In all other matters regarding membership, the Commission will be
bound by and adhere to the provisions of the 200 Series Commission
Establishment and Membership (I.C. 36-7-4-200 through 36-7-4-299 and successor
statutes that may be enacted) as it relates to a municipal plan commission.
(2005 Code, § 31.02) (Ord. G-94-16, passed - -1994)
§ 31.03 ORGANIZATION.
   The Commission shall adhere to the provisions of I.C. 300 Series Commission
Organization (I.C. 36-7-4-300 through 36-7-4-399 and successor statutes that
may be enacted) in all respects as it applies to municipal plan commissions.
(2005 Code, § 31.03) (Ord. G-94-16, passed - -1994)
§ 31.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have the power to do the following: supervise and make
rules for the administration of the affairs of the Commission; prescribe
uniform rules pertaining to investigations and hearings; keep a complete record
of all the departmental proceedings; record and file all bonds and contracts
and assume responsibility for the custody and preservation of all papers and
documents of the Commission; prepare, publish, and distribute reports,
ordinances, and other material relating to the activities authorized under this
chapter; adopt a seal; certify to all official acts; supervise the fiscal
affairs of the Commission; and prepare and submit an annual budget in the same
manner as other departments of municipal government and be limited to all
expenditures to the provisions made for the expenditures by the fiscal body of
the county or municipality.
(2005 Code, § 31.04) (Ord. G-94-16, passed - -1994)
§ 31.05 MISCELLANEOUS RESPONSIBILITIES.
   In addition to those duties and responsibilities set forth above in this
subchapter, the Commission shall exercise all responsibilities and obligations
delegated to and imposed upon a municipal Plan Commission in the local planning
and zoning statutes, I.C. 36-7-4 and successor statutes that may be enacted.
(2005 Code, § 31.05) (Ord. G-94-16, passed - -1994)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.20 STANDARDS FOR HIRING A NEW OFFICER.
   (A)   Any police officer that is hired for the Town Marshal Department is a
probationary employee, regardless of previous experience, for one full year
from date of hire and shall meet the following requirements.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.2-3.5, and successor statutes that may be
enacted, any applicant for police officer position with the Town Marshal
Department shall pass a physical agility test and general aptitude test.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.2-5, and successor statutes that may be
enacted, the physical agility test shall be in addition to a standard medical
physical examination.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.2-6, and successor statutes that may be
enacted, the following basic requirements are hereby adopted for employment
with the Town Marshal Department as a police officer:
      (1)   Must be at least 21 years of age;
      (2)   Must possess a valid state driver’s license and a good driving
record;
      (3)   Must not have been convicted of any criminal offense;
      (4)   Must have 60 or more certifiable college credit hours; actual work
experience as a full-time certified, paid state law enforcement officer may be
substituted for college credit on the basis of 30 college credit hours equals
one year of actual work experience;
      (5)   Within 180 days of the time of appointment, a new police officer
must reside in the county and maintain residence there throughout term of
employment. In a special circumstance, the Town Marshal and a majority of the
Town Council, as determined in a public meeting of the Council, may allow a
town police officer to live outside of the county but within 20 miles of the
town’s corporate limits.
      (6)   Must have attended the state’s pre-basic course in the last 12
months or be currently employed as a full-time, certified, paid state police
officer (corrections officers do not qualify);
      (7)   Must be able to operate a computer with Windows 2000 (or newer)
operating system and possess the basic skills to use Microsoft Word;
      (8)   Must be of good moral character;
      (9)   Must be able to pass a rigid background investigation;
      (10)   Must be able to pass a voice stress test;
      (11)   Must be able to pass a psychological evaluation;
      (12)   Must possess, in the sole discretion of the Town Marshal, the
proper attitude to be a police officer; and
      (13)   Must refrain from the use of smoking tobacco products while
working on duty.
   (E)   A new police officer shall receive a starting salary in an amount to
be determined by the Town Council plus benefits in accordance with the new
officer’s police experience and the Omnibus Payroll Ordinance of 2006.
   (F)   The police officer shall become eligible to receive a year-end bonus
following the completion of his or her second year of service.
   (G)   The funds necessary to provide for the salary and benefits for the
police officer(s) of the Town Marshal Department are hereby appropriated by the
Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 31.15) (Ord. G-06-31, passed 10-12-2006)
§ 31.21 RESERVE DEPUTIES; TRAINING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of reserve deputy to be
appointed by the Town Marshal and to serve under the Town Marshal. Reserve
deputies serve at the pleasure of the Town Marshal and must be reappointed if
there is a change in the office of the Town Marshal.
   (B)   Any person who makes an application for appointment as a reserve
deputy shall have a background investigation done. This background
investigation shall consist of a NCIC/IDACS check, local criminal history
check, local warrant check of surrounding counties, and any out-of-state
location at which the applicant may have resided for any period of time. An FBI
fingerprint card shall be filled out and forwarded to the State Police for a
fingerprint file search. An investigation shall be conducted of the applicant’s
driving history and kept on file. A file shall be kept on each reserve officer
appointee to attest his or her background investigation was completed.
   (C)   The number of reserve deputies shall be limited to ten.
   (D)   Reserve deputies shall serve without remuneration of any type.
   (E)   Reserve deputies shall be added to the Department’s liability
insurance plan, when they are appointed as reserve deputies after pre-basic.
The Marshal shall keep the town’s insurance carrier informed as to number of
reserve officers and supply it with any information that it may require, such
as driving history, name, and address.
   (F)   Reserve officers shall be required to participate in a continuing
education program after completing basic Department training.
   (G)   Each reserve officer applicant shall be required to have a physical
examination prior to participation in any Department training. The physical
examination shall be placed in the reserve officer’s file (at his or her
expense).
   (H)   Each reserve officer shall be required to perform a physical agility
test before appointment.
   (I)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the Marshal from appointing
as many reserve deputies as needed in a time of crisis under I.C. 36-5-7-4(4),
and successor statutes that may be enacted, calling the town to his or her aid
(specific purpose, short term).
(2005 Code, § 31.16) (Ord. G-99-10, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 31.22 POLICE OFFICER BILL OF RIGHTS; ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   A police officer’s Bill of Rights is hereby established for the Town Police
Department, and is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. A
copy is available through town offices.
(2005 Code, § 31.17) (Ord. G-96-16, passed 12-17-1996)
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
§ 31.35 INTENTION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-11-1 et seq., it is declared the
intention of the Board of Commissioners of the county, to allow freeholders of
the territory served by the Town Volunteer Fire Department to avail themselves
of the provisions of said law and to participate in the operation of a Fire
Protection District encompassing all of the territory contained within
Georgetown Township, including the town, as of the date of the passage of this
subchapter.
(Ord. G-06-07, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 31.36 CREATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   A Fire Protection District shall be, and is hereby, created for all of
the territory within Georgetown Township, including the town.
   (B)   The name of the District shall be known as the “Georgetown Township
Fire Protection District”.
(Ord. G-06-07, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 31.37 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of the District are as follows:
   (A)   To ensure the adequacy of EMS and fire protection within the District;
   (B)   To ensure the adequacy of fire prevention, identification, and
elimination of all potential and actual sources of fire hazard;
   (C)   To ensure the capability for extinguishing all fires that might occur
or might be reasonably expected to occur within the territory of the District;
and
   (D)   To carry out all other purposes and functions related to EMS, fire
protection, and fire prevention.
(Ord. G-06-07, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 31.38 NEED FOR THE DISTRICT.
   (A)   There presently exists sufficient need to establish such a district so
as to maintain and expand revenues for the continuation of fire protection
services and for the improvement of the services in the foreseeable future and
to facilitate future planning for the delivery of services on a reasonable
basis.
   (B)   The public health, safety, and welfare of the residents and property
owners of the territory within Georgetown Township, including the town, is
served by the creation of a Fire Protection District.
(Ord. G-06-07, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 31.39 OPERATING COSTS.
   The operating costs for fire protection within the District are not
conditioned upon receipt of federal or state grants.
(Ord. G-06-07, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 31.40 FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT TRUSTEES.
   There shall be three trustees appointed to the Board of Trustees for the
Fire Protection District, and such appointments shall be made in accordance
with law by the County Commissioners within 30 days after passage of this
section.
(Ord. G-06-07, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 31.41 BONDS.
   The fiscal officers shall be bonded for $100,000.
(Ord. G-06-07, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 31.42 LOCATION.
   The Fire District’s main office shall be located at Georgetown Fire House
#2, 5610 Corydon Ridge Road, Georgetown, Indiana 47122-9260.
(Ord. G-06-07, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 31.43 CERTIFICATION.
   A copy of this subchapter, upon its passage and adoption, shall be certified
to the following:
   (A)   The Township Trustee of Georgetown Township;
   (B)   The County Auditor; and
   (C)   The County Recorder.
(Ord. G-06-07, passed 1-17-2006)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.55 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created the Department of Redevelopment of the town (the
“Department of Redevelopment”), which shall be entitled to exercise all the
rights, powers, privileges and immunities according to such Department by I.C.
36-7-14.
(Ord. G-17-05, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 31.56 VOTING MEMBERS.
   Such Department of Redevelopment shall be under the control of a Board of
five voting members and one non-voting member to be known as the Redevelopment
Commission.
(Ord. G-17-05, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 31.57 COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board to be known as the Redevelopment
Commission. Three of said Commissioners shall be appointed by the President of
the Town Council and two shall be appointed by the Town Council. In addition,
the Town Council President shall appoint one non-voting member from the
membership of a school board of a school corporation located wholly or partly
within the town. Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve for one year from
January 1 after his or her appointment and until his or her successor is
appointed and has qualified, except that the original Commissioners shall serve
from the date of their appointment until January 1 in the second year after
their appointment. If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the
same manner as the original Commissioner, and the successor shall serve for the
remainder of the vacated term.
   (B)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her duties,
shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by law, to be
endorsed on the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Each Redevelopment Commissioner, before beginning his or her duties,
shall execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to be approved by the
Town Council. The bond must be in a penal sum of $15,000 and must be
conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and
the accounting for all monies and property that may come into his or her hands
or under his or her control. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the
Redevelopment District.
(Ord. G-17-05, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 31.58 QUALIFICATIONS OF COMMISSIONERS.
   Such Commissioners shall have the qualifications prescribed by the laws of
the state as from time to time amended and shall qualify as therein provided;
and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers and assume the duties and
obligations conferred and imposed by I.C. 36-7-14, including but not limited to
the following qualifications:
   (A)   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years of age and must
be a resident of the town. If a Commissioner ceases to be qualified under this
section, he or she forfeits his or her office.
   (B)   No Redevelopment Commissioner of the town shall receive a salary, but
such Redevelopment Commissioners are entitled to reimbursement for expenses
necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (C)   A Redevelopment Commissioner may not have a pecuniary interest in any
contract, employment, purchase or sale made under the provisions of this
chapter and I.C. 36-7-14. However, any property required for redevelopment
purposes in which a Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be acquired, but
only by gift or condemnation. A transaction made in violation of this section
is void.
(Ord. G-17-05, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 31.59 FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer charged by law with the performance of duties in respect
to the funds and accounts of the town shall perform the same duties with
respect to the funds and accounts of the Department of Redevelopment, except as
otherwise provided for in I.C. 36-7-14.
(Ord. G-17-05, passed 11-20-2017)
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.65 FINDINGS.
   (A)   I.C. 36-7-11.9 and 36-7-12 (collectively, “Statute”) grant the
authority to the Town Council (“Council”) of the Town of Georgetown, Indiana
(“Town”) to establish a Department of Economic Development to be controlled by
an Economic Development Commission to meet the needs existing for the financing
of economic development or pollution control facilities in and near the town.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-3, a need exists for the financing of
economic development or pollution control facilities in the town that promote
the likelihood of creating or retaining opportunities for gainful employment,
creating business opportunities, providing reliable water services, the
abatement, reduction, or prevention of pollution, or the removal or treatment
of substances in materials being processed that otherwise would cause pollution
when used.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Statute, the Department of Economic Development and
the Economic Development Commission will serve a public purpose and will be of
benefit to the health or general welfare of the town.
   (D)   The Council finds it appropriate to establish the Georgetown
Department of Economic Development (“Department”) and the Georgetown Economic
Development Commission (“Commission”).
(Ord. G-23-12, passed 11-29-2023)
§ 31.66 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT AND COMMISSION.
   The Department, controlled by the Commission, is hereby created and granted
all powers and duties of such Department and such Commission as set forth in
Indiana Code.
(Ord. G-23-12, passed 11-29-2023)
§ 31.67 NOMINATION OF MEMBERS OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of the statute, the Council President, as
the town's executive, shall nominate a member of the Commission to serve for a
period of three years.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of the statute, the Council, as the town's
fiscal body, shall nominate a member of the Commission to serve for a period of
two years.
   (C)   Pursuant to the provisions of the statute, the Floyd County Council,
as the County's fiscal body, shall nominate a member of the Commission to serve
for a period of one year.
   (D)   Pursuant to the provisions of the statute, the Council hereby directs
the Clerk-Treasurer to notify the Floyd County Council regarding its nomination
to the Commission, as set out in division (C) above.
(Ord. G-23-12, passed 11-29-2023)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN POLICIES; PURCHASING
Section
General Policies
   
32.01   Unpaid debts
   
32.02   Promotion of economic development and tourism; reimbursement
   
32.03   Equal opportunity policy
   
32.04   Electronic transfers of funds and electronic banking transfers
   
32.05   Advertisements in the Georgetown Gazette
   
32.06   Authorization for town to be a debtor
   
32.07   Investment officer
   
32.08   Uniform Internal Control Standards
General Purchasing Provisions
   
32.20   Purchase of supplies
   
32.21   Purchasing agents designated
   
32.22   Credit card policy
Fixed Asset Inventories
   
32.35   Minimum value
   
32.36   Categories
   
32.37   Salvage
   
32.38   Depreciation
   
32.39   Useful lives
Red Flag Compliance and Identity Theft Prevention
   
32.50   Short title
   
32.51   Purpose
   
32.52   Definitions
   
32.53   Process of establishing a covered account
   
32.54   Access to covered account information
   
32.55   Credit card payments
   
32.56   Sources and types of red flags
   
32.57   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
32.58   Updating the program
   
32.59   Program administration
   
32.60   Outside service providers
Investment Policy
   
32.70   Policy
   
32.71   Scope
   
32.72   Objectives
   
32.73   Standards of care
   
32.74   Deposits
   
32.75   Diversification
   
32.76   Authorized investments
   
32.77   Derivatives
   
32.78   Reporting
   
32.79   Policy considerations
GENERAL POLICIES
§ 32.01 UNPAID DEBTS.
   The procedure for the removal and write-off of unpaid fees and penalties
shall be as follows.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall present all unpaid debts to the
Town Council every six months and request that the debts be written off.
   (B)   The Town Council shall approve or disapprove the write-off by majority
vote only.
(2005 Code, § 32.01) (Ord. G-01-01, passed 4-17-2001)
§ 32.02 PROMOTION OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM; REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds
from the General Fund of the town to pay the expenses of or to reimburse the
town officials, as the case may be, for the expenses incurred in promoting
economic development and tourism within the town.
   (B)   The expenses incurred in promoting the economic development and
tourism within the town include, but are not necessarily limited to: rental of
meeting places; supplies; meals; decorations; memorabilia; awards; donations to
local civic groups interested in the economic development of the town; expenses
incurred in interviewing job applicants; expenses incurred in promoting
industrial, commercial, and residential development; bonuses to employees;
expenses incurred in developing relations with other units of government; and
any other expenses of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the Town Council
to be necessary for the purpose of promoting economic development and tourism
within the town.
(2005 Code § 32.02) (Ord. G-92-18, passed - -)
§ 32.03 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY POLICY.
   (A)   It is the public policy of the Town Council to support and encourage
equal education and employment opportunities.
   (B)   The Town Council designates the state’s Civil Rights Commission as the
agency appropriate to implement the purposes and objectives of the state’s
Civil Rights Law and effect from and after its passage and approval by the Town
Council.
(2005 Code, § 32.03) (Ord. G-95-05, passed 6-20-1995)
§ 32.04 ELECTRONIC TRANSFERS OF FUNDS AND ELECTRONIC BANKING TRANSFERS.
   The Town Council hereby authorizes the use of electronic financial transfers
and electronic online banking services as needed.
(Ord. G-08-13, passed 4-12-2008)
§ 32.05 ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE GEORGETOWN GAZETTE.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to sell advertisements
in the Georgetown Gazette. Said advertisements shall be no larger than one-
fourth of an eight and one-half inch by 11 inch page. Said advertisement charge
shall only pay for one edition of the Georgetown Gazette; each publication date
would require a second purchase of advertising space.
      (2)   The one-fourth of a page advertisement shall sell for $100. A one-
eighth of a page advertisement, or business card size advertisement, shall sell
for $50.
   (B)   (1)   All advertisements are subject to the approval of the Georgetown
Gazette editors, which are the Town Council members and the Clerk-Treasurer.
This approval process is necessary to protect the integrity and quality of the
newsletter.
      (2)   (a)   Since the Georgetown Gazette is published periodically, the
dates and frequency of publication are set at the sole discretion of the Town
Council and Clerk-Treasurer.
         (b)   A potential advertiser, therefore, can place an advertisement,
but cannot dictate when said advertisement shall appear.
         (c)   The town’s staff will do their best to prepare the Georgetown
Gazette in a timely fashion, but the timeliness must be primarily based on news
items to share, and not solely on the fact that there are advertisements to be
printed.
(Ord. G-05-32, passed 10-20-2005)
§ 32.06 AUTHORIZATION FOR TOWN TO BE A DEBTOR.
   The town is hereby authorized to be a debtor under 11 U.S.C. § 109(c)(2).
(Ord. G-09-07, passed 6-29-2009)
§ 32.07 INVESTMENT OFFICER.
   The Town Council elects to authorize its investment officer to make
investments having a stated final maturing that is more than two years and not
more than five, pursuant to the adopted investment policy.
(Ord. G-18-02, passed 1-30-2018)
§ 32.08 UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts as policy the Uniform Internal Control
Standards as set forth by the Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal
Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly
written and published by the Indiana State Board of Accounts in September 2015,
and as amended from time to time.
   (B)   At the time the annual financial report is electronically filled, the
Clerk-Treasurer, as the fiscal officer of the town, shall certify in writing
that the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions
have been adopted and shall certify that the personnel have been trained as
required by law.
   (C)   The town calls upon the Clerk-Treasurer, town officials, employee, and
agents to enforce this policy and to report any material and/or noteworthy
items to the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. G-20-03, passed 7-28-2020)
GENERAL PURCHASING PROVISIONS
§ 32.20 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES.
   (A)   The following are the required purchasing rules for the town.
   (B)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
town purchases and shall be purchased, unless the town determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceed, by an unreasonable amount, the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; and/or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(2005 Code, § 32.15) (Ord. 98-12, passed 6-16-1998)
§ 32.21 PURCHASING AGENTS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The Town Council is hereby designated as the purchasing agency for the
town.
   (B)   The following individuals are hereby designated as purchasing agents
and shall be responsible for purchasing necessary materials and supplies for
the town, in accordance with I.C. 5-22 and successor statutes that may be
enacted.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer and Deputy Clerk-Treasurer shall be the
purchasing agents for any departments within the town, including, but not
limited to, the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   (a)   The Town Marshal shall be the purchasing agent for supplies
for the Town Police Department.
         (b)   Provided the same are budgeted, the Town Marshal is authorized
to make purchases of materials and/or services for emergency repairs to town
vehicles in an amount up to $2,000 with prior notification of the Town Council
President or, if such President is unavailable, the Town Council Vice-
President.
      (3)   (a)   The Director of Public Works shall be the purchasing agency
for all departments under his or her authority, including utilities and parks.
         (b)   Provided the same are budgeted, the Director of Public Works is
authorized to make purchases of materials and/or services for emergency or
required repairs for pump station troubleshooting and repair/replacement, force
main troubleshooting and repair and replacement, gravity sanitary sewer line
repair and replacement, and water line repair and replacement in an amount up
to $5,000 with prior notification of the Town Council President or, if such
President is unavailable, the Town Council Vice-President.
         (c)   Provided the same are budgeted, the Director of Public Works is
authorized to make purchases of materials and/or services for emergency repairs
to town vehicles in an amount up to $2,000 with prior notification of the Town
Council President or, if such President is unavailable, the Town Council Vice-
President.
   (C)   Except as hereinabove provided, any order made for the purchase of
goods in excess of $200 must be signed by a majority of the purchasing agency.
(2005 Code, § 32.16) (Ord. G-10-14, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 32.22 CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   (A)   The following policies and procedures shall be implemented with
respect to the use of town credit cards.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the custodian of all credit cards.
      (2)   No person other than a town officer or employee shall be authorized
to use any credit account held in the name of the town.
      (3)   No unauthorized purchases shall be made on any credit card held in
the name of the town. Authorized purchases on town credit cards shall be
limited to fuel, supplies, and/or materials required by the town in the
ordinary course of business, and any purchase(s) specifically authorized by the
Town Council.
      (4)   Any person who makes an unauthorized charge(s) on any credit card
held in the name of the town shall be personally liable to the town for the
amount of the charge(s) plus any damages incurred by the town resulting from
the charge(s).
      (5)   Any officer or employee of the town wishing to use a town credit
card shall check out the card by signing a log book, to be maintained by the
Clerk-Treasurer, indicating the name of the person receiving the card, the date
and time on which the card is received, the name of the person returning the
card, and the date and time on which the card is returned.
      (6)   Any person who loses a credit card belonging to the town shall be
responsible for any damages suffered by the town as a result of the lost card,
including, but not limited to, unauthorized charges made on the lost card prior
to the town’s notification.
      (7)   No person shall be permitted to charge more than $200 per purchase
on a town credit card without prior approval from the Town Council for charges
exceeding such amount in such period.
   (B)   Any provision(s) of this section may be waived, altered, and/or
modified by decision of the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 32.17) (Ord. G-10-14, passed 9-13-2010)
FIXED ASSET INVENTORIES
§ 32.35 MINIMUM VALUE.
   The town hereby establishes a minimum threshold of $5,000 present value for
all items on the town’s fixed asset inventory.
(2005 Code, § 32.30) (Ord. G-04-47, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 32.36 CATEGORIES.
   (A)   In accordance with General Accounting Standards Board Statement #34
(GASB 34), a fixed asset inventory will be maintained and updated annually,
including, but not limited to, the following items/functional categories:
      (1)   Road surfaces;
      (2)   Road rights-of-way;
      (3)   Public drainage (storm water) systems;
      (4)   Public parking lots and land;
      (5)   Drinking water systems;
      (6)   Wastewater systems;
      (7)   Sidewalks;
      (8)   Public buildings;
      (9)   Public properties;
      (10)   Buildings; and
      (11)   Equipment (to include vehicles).
   (B)   In accordance with state law, all bridges belong to the county or the
state, depending on the highway classification. The town does not own any
bridges in town.
(2005 Code, § 32.31) (Ord. G-04-47, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 32.37 SALVAGE.
   Any public property or equipment that is determined by a recognized
authority, such as, NADA automobile value book, and/or the Town Council to have
a value of less than $500 shall be considered scrap and have only salvage
value.
(2005 Code, § 32.32) (Ord. G-04-47, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 32.38 DEPRECIATION.
   The town shall utilize straight-line depreciation, on a full-year convention
basis, in all aspects relating to its fixed asset inventory processes.
(2005 Code, § 32.33) (Ord. G-04-47, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 32.39 USEFUL LIVES.
   (A)   For the purposes of the town’s fixed asset inventory processes, the
following standards shall be used for the estimated useful life of the
equipment/property indicated:
Category Lifespan
Category                                     Lifespan
Brick buildings                              100 years
Drinking water systems                       40 years
Parking lots                                 50 years
Passenger vehicles                           5 years
Roads and/or streets (includes paved alleys) 40 years
Sidewalks                                    10 years
Steel buildings                              30 years
Storm water drainage systems                 30 years
Tractors/backhoes and the like               5 years
Trucks                                       7 years
Wastewater systems                           40 years
 
   (B)   Annual resurfacing programs, painting, roofing, and the like are
considered maintenance to improve and extend the life of the asset. For
example, the above schedule shall not be interpreted to indicate the town is
only repaving a street every 40 years.
(2005 Code, § 32.34) (Ord. G-04-47, passed 12-16-2004)
RED FLAG COMPLIANCE AND IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION
§ 32.50 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Red Flag Compliance Program” and may
be referred to herein as “this subchapter” or “subchapter”.
(Ord. G-09-03, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 32.51 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to comply with 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 in order
to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft by identifying and detecting
identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a manner that
will prevent identity theft.
(Ord. G-09-03, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 32.52 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a creditor offers or maintains, primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit
multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit card account, mortgage
loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone account, checking account, or
savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefor.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes covered companies
and telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   PERSON. A natural person, corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information, and driver’s
license information and, for a natural person, includes his or her Social
Security number, mother’s birth name, and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the town.
   TOWN. The Town of Georgetown.
(Ord. G-09-03, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 32.53 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   (A)   As a precondition of opening a covered account with the town, each
applicant shall provide the town with the following information:
      (1)   The customer’s name;
      (2)   The customer’s billing address;
      (3)   The property address (if applicable); and
      (4)   The customer’s phone number.
   (B)   A customer may set up an automatic bank withdrawal by filing out a
request form for an automatic bank withdrawal.
(Ord. G-09-03, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 32.54 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected or kept in a
locked filing cabinet and shall be limited to authorized town personnel.
   (B)   All account sensitive customer account information such as bank
account numbers or routing numbers shall be stored in a secure computer system
which is password protected.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to, or other breach of, customer accounts is
to be reported immediately to the Clerk-Treasurer and the password changed
immediately.
   (D)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential and any request or demand for such information shall be
immediately forwarded to the Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Attorney.
(Ord. G-09-03, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 32.55 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   The town shall not take any payment by credit or debit card. Neither shall
the town collect or ask for credit or debit card information.
(Ord. G-09-03, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 32.56 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   (A)   All employees responsible for, or involved in, the process of opening
a covered account, restoring a covered account, or accepting payment for a
covered account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity
theft.
   (B)   Such red flags may include:
      (1)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
         (a)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be forged
or altered;
         (b)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description
is inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer; and/or
         (c)   Identification which is inconsistent with information readily
accessible on file with the town.
      (2)   Suspicious personal identification. Examples of suspicious personal
identification include:
         (a)   Inconsistent personal information; and/or
         (b)   Lack of personal information beyond that which generally would
be available from a wallet or consumer report.
      (3)   Unusual or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
Examples of unusual or suspicious activity relating to a covered account
include:
         (a)   Customer fails to make first payment or makes an initial payment
but no subsequent payments;
         (b)   Mail sent to the customer is returned although transactions
continue to be conducted in connection with the customer’s account;
         (c)   Suspicious inquiries about covered account information by any
person, including persons representing themselves to be the account holder or
the account holder’s representative;
         (d)   The town is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer’s account; and/or
         (e)   The town is notified by a customer, law enforcement, or another
person that a fraudulent account has been opened for a person engaged in
identity theft.
(Ord. G-09-03, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 32.57 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any town employee responsible for, or involved in,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
Clerk-Treasurer. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that
identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Clerk-
Treasurer who, in his or her discretion, may determine that no further action
is necessary. If the Clerk-Treasurer, in his or her discretion, determines that
further action is necessary, a town employee shall perform one or more of the
following responses, as determined to be appropriate by the Clerk-Treasurer:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   Close the account;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement, in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; and/or
      (4)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   Under no circumstances shall a town employee give any information to
any individual over the phone regarding a covered account other than the
balance currently owed.
   (C)   The balance currently owed on a covered account shall only be given
out to an individual who correctly identifies the property address, billing
address, and name on the covered account.
   (D)   Information on a covered account shall not be changed or amended
except under the following circumstances:
      (1)   An in-person request from a customer who presents photo
identification; or
      (2)   A telephone request from a person who provides the name of the
account holder, the account address, and the account number.
   (E)   No bill or correspondence to covered account holders shall include any
customer information other than the customer name, the customer address, the
customer account number, and the customer balance.
(Ord. G-09-03, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 32.58 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Town Council shall be responsible for reviewing and updating this
policy as it deems necessary along with any relevant red flags in order to
reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the
town and its covered accounts from identity theft.
   (B)   In so doing, the Town Council shall consider the following factors and
exercise its discretion in amending the program:
      (1)   The town’s experiences with identity theft;
      (2)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      (3)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft; and/or
      (4)   Updates in the types of accounts that the town offers or maintains.
(Ord. G-09-03, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 32.59 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office and office staff is responsible for
oversight of the program and for program implementation. The Clerk-Treasurer is
responsible for reviewing reports and/or suggestions made by the office staff
and for recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the
opinion of the Clerk-Treasurer. Any recommended material changes to the program
shall be submitted to the Town Council for consideration.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer will report to the Town Council at least annually
on compliance with red flag requirements. The Clerk-Treasurer will address
material matters related to the program and evaluate issues such as:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of the town in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider agreements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office is responsible for providing training to
all employees responsible for, or involved in, opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account, or accepting a payment for a covered
account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the Identity
Theft Prevention Program. The Clerk-Treasurer shall exercise his or her
discretion in determining the amount and substance of training necessary.
(Ord. G-09-03, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 32.60 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the town engages a service provider to perform an activity
in connection with one or more covered accounts, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to
ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the service provider’s
activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed
upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in
the performance of the service provider’s activities and take appropriate steps
to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. G-09-03, passed 4-13-2009)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 32.70 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the town to invest public funds in a manner which will
provide the highest investment return with maximum security while meeting all
liquidity and operating demands of the town. All investments must conform to
all applicable state and local statutes governing the investment of public
funds. Pursuant to Ordinance G-18-02, Resolution R 18-02 and I.C. 5-13-9-5.7,
the Town Council does hereby adopt this written investment policy. The
investment of public funds shall be made in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7.
The investment of public funds shall be made with the approval of the investing
officer and Town Council, as set forth in this subchapter. This investment
policy shall expire four years from adoption, unless modified or rescinded
prior thereto.
(Res. R-18-02, passed 1-30-2018)
§ 32.71 SCOPE.
   (A)   This investment and deposit policy applies to all financial assets of
the town. The town funds subject to this policy are hereinafter referred to as
the active portfolio.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to pool cash balances from all funds
of the town for investment purposes. All interest earnings will be credited to
the fund from which the cash balance was drawn.
(Res. R-18-02, passed 1-30-2018)
§ 32.72 OBJECTIVES.
   The primary objectives of investment activities, in order of priority, shall
be safety, liquidity and yield:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure that preservation of capacity in the overall portfolio. This is
accomplished by:
      (1)   Limiting investments to the securities authorized by this policy;
      (2)   Pre-qualifying the financial institutions, brokers/dealers and
advisors with which the town will do business;
      (3)   Diversifying the investment portfolio so that potential losses on
individual securities will not significantly affect the safety of the
portfolio; and
      (4)   Structuring the investment portfolio so that securities mature to
meet cash requirements for ongoing operations, thereby avoiding the need to
sell securities on the open market prior to maturing.
   (B)   Liquidity. The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid
to meet all operating requirements that may be reasonably anticipated. This is
accomplished by:
      (1)   Structuring the portfolio so that securities mature concurrent with
cash needs to meet anticipated demands;
      (2)   The portfolio should consist largely of securities with active
secondary or resale markets; and
      (3)   A portion of the portfolio should be placed in money market funds
or local government pools which offer same-day liquidity for short-term funds.
   (C)   Yield. The investment portfolio shall be designed with the objective
of attaining a market rate of return throughout budgetary and economic cycles,
taking into account the investment risk constraints and liquidity needs. Return
on investment is of secondary importance compared to the safety and liquidity
objectives described in division (B) of this section.
(Res. R-18-02, passed 1-30-2018)
§ 32.73 STANDARDS OF CARE.
   (A)   Delegation of authority. Authority to manage the investment program is
hereby delegated to the Fiscal Officer/Clerk-Treasurer, who shall act in
accordance with the established written procedures and internal controls for
the operation of the investment program, consistent with this investment policy
or as directed from time to time by the Town Council. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
be responsible for all transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of
controls to regulate the activities of subordinate officials. No person may
engage in an investment transaction except as provided under the terms of this
policy and the procedures established by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Prudence. The standard of prudence to be used by the investment
officials shall be the “prudent person” standard and shall be applied in the
context of managing an overall portfolio. Investment officers acting in
accordance with written procedures and this investment policy and exercising
due diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an individual
security’s credit risk or market price changes, provided deviations from
expectations are reported in a timely fashion and the actions of the investment
officer are in accordance with this policy.
   (C)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions. Investment
officials shall disclose any material interest in financial institutions with
which they conduct business on behalf of the town. They shall further disclose
any personal financial/investment positions that could be related to the
performance of the investment portfolio.
(Res. R-18-02, passed 1-30-2018)
§ 32.74 DEPOSITS.
   Custodial credit risk is the risk that in the event of a bank failure, the
government’s deposits may not be returned to it. All deposit balances must be
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Public Deposit
Insurance Fund, which covers all public funds held in approved depositories.
(Res. R-18-02, passed 1-30-2018)
§ 32.75 DIVERSIFICATION.
   (A)   To avoid incurring unreasonable risks inherent in over-investing in
specific instruments, individual financial institutions, dealers or maturities,
the Clerk-Treasurer will diversify the active portfolio as follows:
Diversification by Instrument Maximum Percent of Town’s Active Portfolio
Diversification by Instrument             Maximum Percent of Town’s Active
                                          Portfolio
U.S. Treasury obligations                 100%
Authorized U.S. Federal Agency Securities
and U.S. government-sponsored             100%
corporations
   *Maximum per single agency          100%
Indiana issued municipal securities       100%
Certificates of deposit covered under     100%
FDIC or PDIF
Money market savings account              100%
State government investment pool          100%
Repurchase agreements                     100%
 
Diversification by Stated Financial      Maximum Percent of Town’s Active
Maturity                                 Portfolio
Up to 2 years                            100%
More than 2 years but not greater than 5 25%
years
 
   (B)   In accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7, up to 25% of the total town
portfolio, including balances in transaction accounts may be invested for terms
of more than two years after the date of purchase or entry into a repurchase
agreement, but not more than five years. As long as this investment policy is
in effect when the investment is made, the investment remains compliant with
the policy even if:
      (1)   The investment policy has expired; or
      (2)   A subsequent decrease in the total portfolio, including balances in
transaction accounts, causes the percentage of investments outstanding under
this parameter to exceed 25% of the total portfolio of funds invested.
   (C)   An investing officer, with approval of the Town Council, may contract
with a federally regulated investment advisor or other institutional money
manager to make investments under this section.
(Res. R-18-02, passed 1-30-2018)
§ 32.76 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Unless specifically prohibited by law or elsewhere by these investment
criteria in this policy, monies in the pool may be invested and reinvested only
in investments authorized and within the legal limits required by the
investment laws for the investment of state funds.
   (B)   Although a number of investment options are authorized in I.C. 5-13
for state investments, the predominate asset classes will be considered to
comprise the pool portfolio are:
      (1)   Securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Treasury or fully guaranteed by the United States and issued by:
         (a)   The United States Treasury;
         (b)   A federal agency;
         (c)   A federal instrumentality; and
         (d)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
      (2)   Securities issued by:
         (a)   A federal agency;
         (b)   A federal instrumentality; and
         (c)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
      (3)   Repurchase agreements with state designated depositories, fully
collateralized with a perfected security interest in the collateral;
      (4)   Certificates of deposit;
      (5)   Municipal securities issued by a state local governmental entity, a
quasi-governmental entity related to the state, or a unit of government,
municipal corporation or special taxing district in the state, if the issuer
has not defaulted on any of the issuer’s obligations within the 20 years
preceding the date of the purchase;
      (6)   AAA rated (Standard and Poor’s (S&P) financial service company) or
AAA rated (Moody’s Investor Service) money market mutual funds comprised of the
foregoing; and
      (7)   Trust Indiana - local government investment pool.
(Res. R-18-02, passed 1-30-2018)
§ 32.77 DERIVATIVES.
   Investments in derivatives are strictly forbidden. A derivative is defined
as a financial instrument, contract or obligation whose value is based upon or
linked to another asset or index or both, separate from the financial
instrument, contract or obligation itself.
(Res. R-18-02, passed 1-30-2018)
§ 32.78 REPORTING.
   The Fiscal Officer/Clerk-Treasurer will be responsible to provide regular
reports (at least quarterly) to the Town Council about the town’s investment
activities, or as otherwise directed from time to time by the Town Council.
(Res. R-18-02, passed 1-30-2018)
§ 32.79 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS.
   Any investment currently held that does not meet the guidelines of this
policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this policy. At maturity or
liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as provided by this policy.
(Res. R-18-02, passed 1-30-2018)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES
Section
Funds
   
33.01   Police Forfeiture Money Fund
   
33.02   Holiday Drunk Driving Enforcement Fund
   
33.03   Riverboat Gaming Fund
   
33.04   Broadband Utility Fund
   
33.05   LOIT Special Distributions Fund
   
33.06   Waterworks Proceeds Trust Fund
   
33.07   Community Crossing Matching Grant Fund
   
33.08   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund; Plan for Use
   
33.09   Capital Improvement Fund
   
33.10   Community Investor Fund
Fees
   
33.20   Environmental Health Services fee schedule; adoption by reference
   
33.21   Photograph fee
   
33.22   Copy fee
FUNDS
§ 33.01 POLICE FORFEITURE MONEY FUND.
   The Police Forfeiture Money Fund is hereby created to be used for the
purpose of purchasing equipment for the improvement of the Police Department.
These funds are to be non-appropriated.
(2005 Code, § 33.03) (Ord. G-00-15, passed 11-28-2000)
§ 33.02 HOLIDAY DRUNK DRIVING ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established a fund known as the Holiday Drunk Driving
Enforcement Fund by the town for the purpose of expending a local award from
the Governor’s Task Force to Reduce Drunk Driving. The amount in the Fund is
hereby designated for police overtime patrols during the holiday season in
order to enhance the efforts to apprehend persons who operate vehicles while
intoxicated. Upon completion of the holiday enforcement activities, all
unexpended funds shall be returned to the Governor’s Task Force to Reduce Drunk
Driving. In no event may any of the funds revert to the General Fund or any
other heretofore established fund of the town.
(2005 Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 1990-G-90-06, passed 12-10-1990)
§ 33.03 RIVERBOAT GAMING FUND.
   (A)   Monies received by the town from revenue sharing of Harrison County
gambling taxes shall be maintained and accounted for in the Gaming Fund,
tracked as Fund #242.
   (B)   The Gaming Fund shall be maintained regardless of current year revenue
sharing gambling tax receipts until and unless the Town Council has exhausted
monies available for expenditure from the Gaming Fund, and only then if the
Council enacts an ordinance eliminating the Gaming Fund from the town’s
accounts.
(2005 Code, § 33.05) (Ord. G-05-03, passed 1-6-2005)
§ 33.04 BROADBAND UTILITY FUND.
   (A)   The town’s Broadband Utility (Enterprise) Fund is hereby established.
Initially, this Fund will be financed by a $200,000 capital investment loan
from a bank. All revenues from broadband installation, sales, advertising, and
the like shall be placed in this Broadband Utility Fund. Similarly, all
expenses which are generated by the wireless broadband enterprise shall be paid
out of this Fund, including repayment of the initial loan.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Council President are hereby
authorized to sign the necessary bank documents to secure a $200,000 initial
loan from a bank. The town is pledging the Town Shop property, 11.383 acres, as
collateral for the loan. This process is in accordance with policies provided
to the town by the state’s Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. G-06-37, passed - -; Ord. G-07-20, passed 6-21-2007)
§ 33.05 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTIONS FUND.
   (A)   Fund 257. The following Fund 257 is now established to receive the
LOIT special distribution.
   (B)   Allocation of LOIT special distribution. The entire LOIT special
distribution shall be initially receipted into the town’s Rainy Day Fund. Upon
the creation and approval of the Fund 257, the Director of the Department of
Finance and Records shall transfer 100% of the LOIT special distribution to
Fund 257. Following the transfer of 100% of the LOIT special distribution to
Fund 257, the Director of the Department of Finance and Records shall transfer
25% of the balance in Fund 257 to the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. G-16-07, passed 7-18-2016)
§ 33.06 WATERWORKS PROCEEDS TRUST FUND.
   (A)   Nonreverting trust fund. There is hereby created a nonreverting trust
fund, entitled the Waterworks Proceeds Trust Fund. The moneys deposited in the
Waterworks Proceeds Trust Fund shall not be commingled with, nor shall they be
a part of the general funds of the town. The Waterworks Proceeds Trust Fund
shall be a nonreverting fund used solely for the purposes described in this
section.
   (B)   Deposit of waterworks proceeds. The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit the
waterworks proceeds into the Waterworks Proceeds Trust Fund upon receipt of the
proceeds from the company.
   (C)   Use of funds. The funds deposited to the Waterworks Proceeds Trust
Fund may be used for any capital cost or expense for the benefit of the town,
including but not limited to equipment, machinery, police cars, trucks,
economic development projects, and other similar or such other purposes as
approved by the Town Council. The funds shall not be moved, spent or allocated
without the approval of a majority of the Town Council.
   (D)   Appropriation. Funds on deposit in the Waterworks Proceeds Trust Fund
shall be appropriated as provided by statute.
   (E)   Investment restrictions. The funds deposited to the Waterworks
Proceeds Trust Fund may be invested in accordance with I.C. 5-13 et seq.
   (F)   Investment income. Investment income shall be deposited to the
Waterworks Proceeds Trust Fund unless otherwise directed by the Town Council.
   (G)   No reversion of moneys to the general fund. There shall be no
reversions of the Waterworks Proceeds Trust Fund or any moneys placed into the
Waterworks Proceeds Trust Fund to the general fund of the town. Except as
provided in this section, waterworks proceeds may accumulate in the Waterworks
Proceeds Trust Fund.
(Ord. G-17-3, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 33.07 COMMUNITY CROSSING MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Community Crossing Matching Grant Fund.
Said fund shall be created as Fund 2408. It shall be a non-reverting fund.
   (B)   The town hereby directs that all funds received from the CCMG shall be
placed into said fund.
   (C)   The funds shall be appropriated, and approved for expenditure, by the
Town Council before use.
   (D)   The Clerk Treasurer shall keep accurate and complete financial records
of the receipt and expenditure of any and all funds deposited and paid from
this fund. In addition, the Clerk Treasurer follow any and all guidance and
rules implemented by the State Board of Accounts regarding this fund.
(Ord. G-23-03, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 33.08 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND; PLAN FOR USE.
   (A)   There is hereby established an ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery
Fund. Said fund shall be created as Fund 199. It shall be a non-reverting fund.
   (B)   The town hereby establishes the Georgetown ARP Plan as set out herein.
   (C)   The town hereby directs that all funds received from the American
Rescue Plan funds shall be placed into said fund and kept separate from other
funds of the town. There shall not be any co-mingling of other funds of the
town with the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
   (D)   The Town Council directs that no expenditure of said funds within the
Georgetown ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund shall occur without
proper approval and appropriation by the Town Council.
   (E)   The funds may be used for only the following reasons as set forth in
Section 603(c) of the ARP in accordance with the U.S. Treasury guidance:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the
metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local government, or county that are
performing such essential work, or by providing grants to eligible employers
that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of such metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local
government, or county due to the COVID-19 public health emergency relative to
revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the metropolitan
city, non-entitlement unit of local government, or county prior to the
emergency; or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure.
   (F)   The Town Council hereby sets the following spending allocation:
      (1)   Section D - Water/Sewer/Broadband/MS4 Infrastructure: $350,000.00.
Funding will be for MS4 projects. Town Council shall determine eligibility of
projects.
      (2)   Section A - Negative Economic Impacts: $200,000. Funding will be
for town sidewalks to help curb the negative economic impacts of COVID on
tourism, travel, hospitality, and other impacted industries within the town.
      (3)   Section A - Negative Economic Impacts: $211,079.22. Funding will be
for town parks to help curb the negative economic impacts of COVID on tourism,
travel, hospitality, and other impacted industries within the town.
   (G)   Any unused funds shall be paid back to the United State Treasury when
required.
   (H)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep accurate and complete financial records
of the receipt and expenditure of any and all funds deposited and paid from
this fund. In addition, the Clerk-Treasurer follow any and all guidance and
rules implemented by the State Board of Accounts regarding this fund.
(Ord. G-21-08, passed 8-16-2021; Ord. G-21-13, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 33.09 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The “Capital Improvement Fund” is hereby established.
   (B)   The intent of the fund is to use sponsorship donations and grants from
companies that support the town for capital improvement projects including but
not limited to, playgrounds, park and trail development, athletic facilities,
sidewalk infrastructure, and other town improvements that will benefit the
residents of the town.
(Ord. G-23-06, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 33.10 COMMUNITY INVESTOR FUND.
   (A)   The “Community Investor Fund” is hereby established.
   (B)   The intent of the fund is to use sponsorship donations and grants from
companies that support the town for community events, including but not limited
to, fireworks, parades, town fundraisers, and community/neighborhood events or
activities that are open to the public.
(Ord. G-23-07, passed 7-17-2023)
FEES
§ 33.20 ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FEE SCHEDULE; ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The fees and charges set forth on the fee schedule appended to Ord. 98-05,
and adopted and incorporated herein by reference, be and the same hereby are
adopted and established as the fees and charges to be levied and imposed for
the various services to be rendered and performed by the County Health
Department, with the fees and charges, upon collection and receipt, to be
deposited by the Department as required by law.
(2005 Code, § 33.15) (Ord. 98-05, passed 3-17-1998; Ord. G-98-13, passed 6-16-
1998)
Editor’s note:
   Two copies of the Health Services Fee Schedule are available for public
inspection at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 33.21 PHOTOGRAPH FEE.
   (A)   (1)   From and after the effective date of this section, a fee of $5
per photograph shall be charged for any photograph by a town police officer of
any accident scene or other incident which is of public record.
      (2)   The person or persons must purchase all photographs that turn out
during development (12 per roll).
   (B)   Any revenue from the photographs authorized by this section shall be
deposited into the Police Department’s Continuing Education Fund.
(2005 Code, § 33.17) (Ord. G-96-04, passed 2-21-1996)
§ 33.22 COPY FEE.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes a copy fee of $0.10 per page for
copies of documents and other information.
   (B)   The copy fee hereby established shall be collected by the Clerk-
Treasurer and deposited in the town’s General Fund or any other appropriate
fund.
(Ord. G-13-08, passed 7-15-2013)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL
Section
Positions
   
34.01   Sewer Supervisor
   
34.02   Utility Clerk
   
34.03   Assistant Utility Clerk
   
34.04   General clerical worker
   
34.05   Inspector(s)
   
34.06   Certified Water Operator
   
34.07   Broadband Utility Technician/Operator
   
34.08   Town Manager
Policies
   
34.20   Personnel policies; adoption by reference
   
34.21   Reserved
   
34.22   Deferred compensation plan
   
34.23   Confidentiality
   
34.24   Nepotism
   
34.25   Drug free workplace
   
34.26   Travel reimbursement policy
Cross-reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer, see §§
30.35 through
30.37
   Police Department, see §§
31.20 through
31.22
POSITIONS
§ 34.01 SEWER SUPERVISOR.
   The position of Sewer Supervisor is hereby created for the town.
(2005 Code, § 34.01) (Ord. G-04-11, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 34.02 UTILITY CLERK.
   A full-time Utility Clerk shall be hired to meet the town’s immediate need
for those services.
(2005 Code, § 34.02) (Ord. G-04-08, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 34.03 ASSISTANT UTILITY CLERK.
   The position of Assistant Utility Clerk is hereby created and authorized.
(2005 Code, § 34.03) (Ord. G-97-04, passed 5-20-1997)
§ 34.04 GENERAL CLERICAL WORKER.
   The position of general clerical worker is hereby established.
(2005 Code, § 34.04) (Ord. G-96-09, passed 6-26-1996)
§ 34.05 INSPECTOR(S).
   (A)   A part-time Inspector(s) shall be hired to meet the town’s immediate
need for those services.
   (B)   The part-time Inspector(s) hired by the town shall be paid flat fees
for each residential inspection and for each commercial/industrial inspection
performed.
   (C)   Should the Inspector observe a situation involving construction or
building safety which in his or her professional opinion, merits investigation,
the Inspector shall stop at the location in question, make appropriate
inspections and/or inquiries and report his or her findings to the Building
Official.
      (1)   The Building Inspector shall be paid for each self-initialed,
legitimate inspection/investigation made with findings reported to the Building
Official, just as the Inspector is paid for inspections on which work orders
are generated by the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
      (2)   The builder/owner who applied for and hold the permit on any
property inspected will be charged at the rate of $25 residential and $35 for
commercial properties for any and all inspections performed.
(2005 Code, § 34.05) (Ord. G-06-12, passed 4-20-2006)
§ 34.06 CERTIFIED WATER OPERATOR.
   A Certified Water Operator shall be hired to meet the town’s immediate need
for those services.
(2005 Code, § 34.06) (Ord. G-03-12, passed 8-22-2003)
§ 34.07 BROADBAND UTILITY TECHNICIAN/OPERATOR.
   (A)   (1)   Town ordinance allows for an additional Utility Technician
position as the town’s expert on broadband.
      (2)   This new Broadband Utility Technician will be paid at the same
rate/wage as the existing Utility Technician position, in accordance with the
overall structure of the Omnibus Merit Wage Increase Ordinance (G-05-23).
      (3)   This will provide for a Sewer Utility Technician and a Broadband
Utility Technician in total at this time.
   (B)   Town ordinance allows for an additional Utility Operator position as
the town’s Broadband Operator. This new Broadband Utility Operator will be paid
at the same rate/wage as the existing Utility Operator position, in accordance
with the overall structure of the Omnibus Merit Wage Increase Ordinance (G-05-
23). This will provide for a Water Utility Operator and a Broadband Utility
Operator in total at this time.
(Ord. G-06-39, passed 12-21-2006; Ord. G-07-12, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 34.08 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Town of Georgetown hereby recreates the position of Town Manager
for the town.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby agrees to proceed forward with hiring a Town
Manager to fill the role of Town Manager.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall receive an annual starting salary of $60,000 as
well as any hire on bonus approved by the Town Council.
   (D)   The town shall provide a town vehicle for use by the Town Manager.
   (E)   The Town Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council and
shall take direction from the Town Council only. No other town official or
employee shall have the authority to direct or impose responsibilities on/to
the Town Manager. The position of Town Manager serves at the sole discretion of
the Town Council and said employment is at-will.
   (F)   The Town Manager role shall be full time and working hours shall be
flexible to work varying hours and shifts as warranted by the town's business
and needs.
   (G)   The effective date for the employment of a Town Manager shall be April
24, 2023.
   (H)   The duties and responsibilities of the Town Manager role are set forth
below.
      (1)   Responsibilities established by state statute (I.C. 36-5-5-8). The
Town Manager exercises chief day-to-day oversight of the administrative duties
of the town, including direct or indirect supervision of Council employees.
Specific duties include:
         (a)   Attending Town Council meetings and recommending actions
considered advisable;
         (b)   Recommend to the Town Council the hiring of town employees
according to the pay schedules and standards fixed by the Town Council or by
statute;
         (c)   Delegating powers to responsible employees (subject to Town
Council direction);
         (d)   Administering and enforcing all Town Council ordinances, orders,
and resolutions;
         (e)   Ensuring the faithful administration of all statutes required to
be administered by the Town Council or its officers;
         (f)   Working with the Clerk-Treasurer and department heads to prepare
budget estimates and submitting them to the Town Council when required;
         (g)   Reviewing and making recommendations on contracts on behalf of
the town for materials, supplies, services, or improvements, after the
completion of the appropriations, notice, and competitive bidding required by
statute and with the express approval of the Town Council executing contracts
on behalf of the town; and
         (h)   Receiving service of summons on behalf of the town.
      (2)   Responsibilities established by the Town Council.
         (a)   The Town Manager guides town operations. Working with residents
to establish a strategic vision, the Town Manager will have specific
responsibility to establish and execute economic and cultural plans and goals,
market the town to business and residential developers, and coordinate
development with surrounding cities, towns and county governments and ensure
the efficient management and operation of the town by carrying out policy and
directives of the Town Council.
         (b)   The position is responsible for managing the following town
departments:
            1.   Public Utilities
            2.   Planning and Zoning
            3.   GIS
            4.   Parks and Recreation
            5.   Town Events
            6.   Any other departments directed by the Town Council.
      (3)   Additional responsibilities.
         (a)   Maintains the administrative organization of the town to ensure
efficiency of operation:
            1.   Coordinates work among department supervisors.
            2.   Involved in the recruiting, hiring, evaluating, promoting, and
disciplining of employees and in establishing procedures for others to follow
in such matters.
            3.   Sets and monitors progress towards attainable goals for all
departments and ensures performance reviews are conducted on an annual basis.
            4.   Assists all departments in building and equipment maintenance
schedules.
            5.   Coordinates with the Town Engineer as needed on utility
related operations as determined or as directed by the Town Council.
         (b)   Carries out directives and work approved by the Town Council:
            1.   Researches, recommends, and coordinates the preparation of
federal and state grant requests appropriate for the town and oversees the
administration of grant programs.
            2.   Communicates with citizens, business owners, and employees to
promote and educate regarding initiatives and projects and to resolve issues.
            3.   Oversees active projects that include infrastructure
initiatives, vendor relationships, work with engineers/contractors, and on the
like.
         (c)   Initiates and assists the Town Council to develop, update, and
execute long range strategic plans:
            l.   Makes recommendations to the Town Council with regard to
economic development, and any projects related to established goals, including
sources of funding the same.
            2.   Identifies service and policy needs and brings to the
attention of the Town Council recommendations for action.
         (d)   Maintains a sound public relations posture between the town and
its citizens, the press, and other federal, state, and local governmental
agencies.
         (e)   Maintains contact with the public by handling suggestions,
complaints, and information requests.
         (f)   Acts as purchasing agent for all departments and oversees the
bid process on major purchases. Makes recommendations based on research of
vendors, products, and so on.
         (g)   Maintains an inventory of town property, including but not
limited to vehicles, office supplies and the like in coordination with the
Clerk-Treasurer.
         (h)   Promotes customer service for all departments, oversees any
complaints, and works to resolve issues that may arise. The Town Manager
maintains an office at/in the Town Hall and also is responsible for
establishing and maintaining visibility and accessibility generally, including
through periodic visits to other community locations and town employee
worksites (both those that are fixed and "in the field").
         (i)   In addition to the Town Council meetings, attends the meetings
of the Planning Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, Redevelopment Commission
and any other advisory boards to maintain awareness and knowledgeability of
such boards' activities and priorities as a means of ensuring optimal
efficiency of town operations.
         (j)   Coordinates with the department heads to ensure the proper
implementation and maintenance of all safety plans and OSHA requirements.
         (k)   Complies individually with all applicable Town Council
ordinances, orders, and resolutions, including without limitation employee/
personnel policies and practices.
         (l)   Maintains awareness of and monitors the town’s compliance with
requirements and expectations of federal and state regulators and/or funders.
Reponds to and coordinates with the Town Council and the town’s legal counsel
with respect to town legal matters. Maintains as privileged and confidential
all information related to the town's legal affairs.
         (m)   Performs other duties as assigned by the Town Council and
consistent with applicable Indiana law.
      (4)   General/other qualifications.
         (a)   Provides superior ratepayer/resident service and positively
effects town interactions with ratepayers, residents, and employees. Has the
resiliency to deal professionally and productively with ratepayers and
residents in a wide variety of settings and conditions and the ability to work
harmoniously with coworkers at all levels and in all departments.
         (b)   Must be flexible to work varying hours and shifts as warranted
by the town’s business needs.
         (c)   Must be able to drive a personal or town-owned vehicle, possess
a valid Indiana operator’s license, and carry insurance or be insurable to the
minimum extent required by the town (and/or recommended by the town's insurance
carrier(s)).
         (d)   While the majority of the Town Manager's work is performed in an
indoor office environment, the Town Manager may be required to address specific
town business in a variety of other settings, including, without limitation:
            1.   Outdoors - entailing various types or degrees of temperature,
light, precipitation, and terrain;
            2.   The town's utility shop building, town parks, AND
construction/project settings - that may include uneven surfaces or terrain,
exposure to varying levels and types of noise, and require use of personal
protective equipment.
(Ord. G-23-02, passed 4-17-2023)
POLICIES
§ 34.20 PERSONNEL POLICIES; ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The town’s personnel policies shall henceforth be those referenced and
further identified as being adopted by Ordinance G-24-01, passed 1-22-2024.
   (B)   The personnel policies are hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in full herein. Copies are available through town offices.
(2005 Code, § 34.15) (Ord. G-24-01, passed 1-22-2024)
§ 34.21 RESERVED.
§ 34.22 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   The Town Council hereby establishes the town deferred compensation plan for
the voluntary participation of all eligible employees and elected officials.
This plan is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies
are available through city offices.
(2005 Code, § 34.17) (Ord. G-00-02, passed 4-18-2000; Ord. G-05-06, passed - -
2005)
§ 34.23 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   General provisions. 
      (1)   All town employees (full time, part time, temporary, and long-term
contracts) as well as political appointees who work for the Clerk-Treasurer
shall consider information secured in the course of their work as confidential.
Any disclosure of this confidential information to any person not specifically
identified as a constituted authority shall be cause for fines charged against
the violator, under the provisions of §
10.99 of this code, and/or disciplinary action or termination from his or her
job.
      (2)   CONSTITUTED AUTHORITY shall mean any one who is a superior or
another town employee who needs to know the confidential information during the
course of his or her job duties.
   (B)   Elected officials. The Town Council may censure any elected town
official who discloses any confidential information outside the course of that
elected official’s duties.
(Ord. G-06-16, passed 4-20-2006)
§ 34.24 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Purpose. Decisions about hiring, promoting, evaluating, awarding
salary increases, job assignments, terminating employees, and the awarding of
contracts for goods and services, and public works projects should be based on
qualifications, performance, and ability of the employee or contractor. Every
attempt to avoid favoritism and conflicts of interest in employment-related and
contractual decisions promotes confidence in the electorate in its leaders and
government. The purpose of this policy is to prohibit certain individuals from
being employed by the town in such a position in which a relative, as defined
below, provides direct supervision. Additionally, this policy regulates
contracting with relatives of individuals employed by, or elected to, represent
the town for goods, services, and public works projects.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BREAK IN EMPLOYMENT. Termination, retirement, or resignation of an
employee from the town. A BREAK IN EMPLOYMENT does not occur due to absence
form the workplace while on paid or unpaid leave, including, but not limited
to, vacation, personal days, sick or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation leave, or if the employment is terminated followed by immediate
re-employment by the town without loss of payroll time.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment.
Such affect may include, but is not limited to, making decisions about work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement, or performance evaluation.
Decisions and action taken by the Town Council regarding the passage of annual
salary ordinances, annual budgets, and personnel policies are excluded from
this definition.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. The Town Council and the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who works for, or is appointed to, any department
or board of the town on a full-time, part-time, temporary, intermittent,
seasonal, hourly, or contractual basis.
      MEMBER OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Fire Chief and any firefighter
appointed to the Town Fire Department or Township Fire Department.
      MEMBER OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Chief and any police officer
appointed to the Town Police Department.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following: spouse; parent or step-parent,
grandparent or step-grandparent; child or step-child (includes an adopted
child); sister, brother, step-sister, step-brother (includes sister or brother
by half-blood); niece or nephew; aunt or uncle; daughter-in-law or son-in-law;
sister-in-law or brother-in-law; and first cousin.
      TOWN. The Town of Georgetown, Indiana and its boards and departments.
   (C)   Employment policy.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives, as defined in division (B) above, of
existing employees may not be employed by the town in a position that results
in one relative being in the direct line of supervision of the other relative.
      (2)   An individual who was employed by the town on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this nepotism policy unless the individual has a break in
employment, as defined herein, with the town.
      (3)   If an individual is employed by the town and the individual’s
relative begins serving a term of elected office, the individual may continue
his or her employment with the town and retain his or her position or rank even
if that individual’s position or rank would be in the direct line of
supervision of the individual’s relative.
      (4)   While an individual who is employed by the town and the
individual’s relative begins serving a term of elected office may continue his
or her employment with the town, that individual may not be promoted to a
position or rank if the new position or rank would place that individual within
the direct line of supervision of the individual’s relative.
   (D)   Contracting policy. The town may enter into or renew a contract for
the procurement of goods, services, or public works projects with a relative of
an elected official or a business entity in which a relative has an ownership
interest if:
      (1)   The elected official files with the town a full disclosure which
must be:
         (a)   In writing;
         (b)   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town; and
         (c)   Describe the relationship the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that provided the contract for goods, services,
or public works.
      (2)   The appropriate town board or department must:
         (a)   Issue a certified statement that the contract amount or purchase
price was the lowest amount or bid price offered; or
         (b)   Issue a certified statement detailing the reasons why the
particular vendor or contractor was selected.
      (3)   The town must satisfy all other requirements of the state’s public
purchasing or public works projects statutes.
      (4)   (a)   Compliance with state codes. The elected official complies
with the disclosure provisions of I.C. 35-44.1-1-4 and 36-1-21-5.
         (b)   Submission of compliance statements. In addition to any other
disclosures or certifications required by this section, the following actions
must be taken.
            1.   The annual report filed by the town with the State Board of
Accounts under I.C. 5-11-13-1 must include the Clerk-Treasurer’s statement that
the town has implemented a nepotism policy with regard to employment matters
and the contracting for the procurement of goods and services.
            2.   Prior to December 31 of each year, each elected officer shall
submit to the Clerk-Treasurer a certification, in writing, subject to the
penalty of perjury, that said officer has not violated the provisions of the
town’s nepotism policy with regard to employment matters and the contracting
for the procurement of goods and services.
   (E)   Repeal. All existing employment policies, employee handbooks, and all
other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
section are hereby repealed.
   (F)   Retroactive. This section is retroactive to July 1, 2012.
(Ord. G-13-02, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 34.25 DRUG FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and may also lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (2)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state, or local laws
or to better serve the needs of the town.
   (B)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
8120) and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through
1308.15), and prescription controlled substances which have not been prescribed
by a licensed physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the
employee. Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated
as a substance abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include, but are not limited to, marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (C)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for town business is never
authorized.
   (D)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the town’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol, or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other town policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
   (F)   Testing.
      (1)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
town; and/or
         (c)   When required by law.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. G-15-20, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 34.26 MILEAGE AND TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT RATE.
   (A)   Approval of travel to conference. The department head must approve all
travel to conferences.
   (B)   Lodging. The town will pay for lodging if the conference requires
overnight travel at the current government rate. Lodging will be paid for if
the conference/training is over 45 miles from the Town Hall.
   (C)   Travel. The Town Official or Employee may use a town owned vehicle.
The approved employee shall take a town gas card if they use a town owned
vehicle with them during the trip and provide gas receipts to the Accounts
Payable Clerk after the trip. If the officer or employee chooses to use their
personal vehicle, then travel reimbursement of the officers or employees shall
be fixed at the rate set by the State of Indiana. This rate will fluctuate as
changes are made to the State set rate quarterly. The Personal Vehicle Mileage
Reimbursement Report Form (attachment #1 to Ordinance G-23-11) will need to be
completed and approved by the Council to receive reimbursement.
   (D)   Meals. Town Officials or Employees traveling to overnight conferences
or training on official town business may claim reimbursement for meals, tax on
meals, and a reasonable gratuity (20% or less). Meals will be reimbursed up to
a maximum of $50 per day. Alcohol purchases will not be reimbursed. Proper
documentation (receipts) for all expenses to be reimbursed must be given to the
Clerk Treasurer's office. If meals are provided at the conference or training,
the employee must eat at the conference and only be reimbursed if the meals are
not provided. The Travel Expense Reimbursement Report (attachment #2 to
Ordinance G-23-11) will need to be completed and approved by the Council to
receive reimbursement. All receipts need to be itemized.
(Ord. G-23-11, passed 11-20-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
53.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
54.   INTERNET SERVICES
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Control of the town’s public utilities
   
50.02   Underground electrical lines to be marked
   
50.03   On-call emergency cellular phone of the Public Utilities Department
   
50.04   Collection policy for overdue accounts
   
50.05   Late payment fees for utilities waived
Affecting Multiple Utilities
   
50.20   Transfer of ownership; monthly charges prorated
   
50.21   Discontinuation of water and garbage services for nonpayment
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 CONTROL OF THE TOWN’S PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   The Town Council is hereby officially designated as the controlling
authority for all of the town’s public utilities, current and future. At the
time of this section those utilities are: the drinking water utility, the
sanitary sewer utility (under the provision of I.C. 36-9-23-3), the solid waste
(garbage) utility, and the storm water (MS4) utility. As such, and in
accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-3, the Town Council may also be known as the
town’s Municipal Works Board, the town’s Utility Service Board, and other
similar names identified in the state statutes. As such, the Town Council
accepts the responsibilities placed upon it by the state code for the control
of the town’s utilities.
(Ord. G-06-21, passed 5-30-2006; Ord. G-08-05, passed 1-28-2008; Ord. G-13-10,
passed 7-15-2013)
§ 50.02 UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL LINES TO BE MARKED.
   (A)   Each and every landowner within the town, utility, public, or
otherwise, or any other entity responsible for the installation of underground
electrical, cable, telephone, or utility lines or conduits shall be required to
install metallic survey tape in the ground a distance of at least two feet from
the underground lines or conduits, and that the survey tape shall be installed
underground at least 12 inches from the surface.
   (B)   No underground electrical, cable, telephone, or utility line or
conduit shall be installed, laid, or placed directly above a sewer line or
water line of the town.
   (C)   This section shall apply to all parcels of real property upon which an
underground electrical, cable, telephone, or utility line or conduit is laid,
placed, or installed on or after the day on which this section is adopted.
(2005 Code, § 50.01) (Ord. G-94-20, passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 ON-CALL EMERGENCY CELLULAR PHONE OF THE PUBLIC UTILITIES DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Each hourly team member of the town’s Public Utilities Department
shall participate in a one week at a time rotational responsibility of
answering the town’s on-call emergency cell phone. Said rotation shall begin
each Wednesday morning at 7:30 a.m. as that work day begins. The only exception
to participation in this rotation is the incumbent of the Broadband Technician
position and any employee who is on new-hire probation.
      (1)   A formal listing of the rotation schedule shall be maintained by
the Public Utilities Department head. This list of rotation dates for each
employee shall be consistent and maintained in job position order, with
seniority of the employee taken into account as appropriate. (Note: The Public
Utilities Department head shall be sensitive to the number of holidays with
which any one employee’s on-call duty coincides in a given year. Ideally, no
employee should have to serve on-call duty for more than three town holidays in
any given calendar year.)
      (2)   Employees are allowed to trade on-call duty between themselves for
a day, or weekend, so long as said trade is coordinated through the Public
Utilities Department head, thus ensuring there will not be any misunderstanding
about who is responsible for answering the phone at any given moment. The
established rotation schedule, addressed in division (A)(1) above, will be the
basis for the on-call pay. Trading among employees shall not be reflected in
the daily pay process; i.e., if employee X is scheduled to be on-call, the
Payroll Clerk will pay employee X for the entire week of on-call duty. If
employee X trades a day of on-call duty with employee Y, that trade is between
the two employees, the daily pay will not reflect such trades.
      (3)   (a)   It is the scheduled on-call employee’s responsibility to
schedule his or her vacation around, i.e., separate from his or her on-call
duty days. If an employee is scheduled to be on-call, that employee cannot take
vacation time.
         (b)   Similarly, if an employee is sick and cannot be at work on a day
for which he or she is scheduled for on-call duty, said employee’s daily on-
call pay will not be paid for those days the employee is sick. Rearranging the
possession of the on-call phone during a time when the on-call employee is sick
may, or may not be, necessary as determined by the Public Utilities Department
head.
         (c)   Additionally, if an employee receives an on-call emergency
telephone call and reports to the Public Utilities Department head that he or
she cannot respond to the emergency at the particular time he or she has been
called by a citizen, the employee shall not receive his or her on-call pay for
that day on which he or she cannot respond to the emergency telephone call.
   (B)   (1)   While serving in this on-call position, the employee will be
paid $25 per day for carrying and answering the town’s on-call cell phone. If
the employee is required to come into work, he or she will be paid a two-hour
minimum at his or her normal rate of pay, which may be at the time and one-half
rate if he or she is already scheduled for working 40 hours in that given week,
as is normally the case. This two-hour period begins with his or her arrival at
the town shop and his or her action of clocking in on the time clock. In
accordance with policies which have been set forth by the state’s Board of
Accounts in previous town audits, if the employee does not clock in, the
employee will not be paid.
      (2)   If the town’s emergency cell phone does not have reception in the
on-call employee’s personal residence area, the emergency phone shall be placed
into a call forward mode to forward the town’s emergency phone to the on-call
employee’s home (land line) phone or his or her personal cell phone, assuming
the employee has unregulated minutes for incoming phone calls, or unregulated
minutes for nights and weekends, at the personal choice of the on-call
employee. The town is not asking the employee to pay for personal cell phone
minutes to answer the town’s cell phone.
   (C)   While serving in the on-call duty position, the employee shall report
to the town shop, clock-in on the time clock, and then travel to the scene of
the emergency in a town vehicle, on which there shall be maintained an adequate
assortment of tools and equipment to resolve most common emergencies. The
standard response time for the on-call employee is hereby set at 30 minutes;
i.e., from the time the on-call employee receives the emergency telephone call,
the employee should be clocking in at the town shop within 30 minutes. The
employee will be paid a minimum of two hours from that clock-in time regardless
of how short of time the employee is on the job, unless the emergency requires
more than two hours of the employee’s time. In such a longer time case, the
employee will be paid for the actual amount of time worked.
   (D)   (1)   In the event the on-call employee believes additional employee
help is needed, the on-call employee shall telephone the Utilities Department
head and the Department head will determine who shall be called in, or if the
problem can be resolved over the phone.
      (2)   If the Department head is unavailable, the Assistant Department
head shall be telephoned for guidance. If the Assistant Department head is
unavailable, then the Town Council shall be telephoned to determine what
additional manpower is required.
      (3)   Telephone numbers for all of these supervisory personnel shall be
distributed to each employee, plus a listing shall be maintained on the public
utilities shop bulletin board.
(Ord. G-07-21, passed 7-19-2007)
§ 50.04 COLLECTION POLICY FOR OVERDUE ACCOUNTS.
   The Town Council hereby establishes a collection policy for water, sewer,
MS4, and garbage collection services and utilities as follows.
   (A)   Services include water, sewer, MS4, and garbage collection provided by
the town.
   (B)   The rates, charges, and unpaid or overdue billings shall be the
responsibility of the owner of each property served. Rates and charges may be
billed to the tenant(s) after such time an account has been established and a
deposit has been paid, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from
liability in the event payment is not made as herein required. Services to
rental property shall be completely satisfied upon vacation of rental property
by a tenant(s).
   (C)   The owner of property served which is occupied by a tenant or tenants
shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for the
purpose of determining whether such bills have been paid by such tenant or
tenants, provided that any such examination shall be made at the office at
which said records are kept and shall only be made during such hours that said
office is open for business.
   (D)   Before any new accounts are opened or transferred and services
established for any person, persons, business, or any other entity, any and all
outstanding balances which have accrued to that person, persons, business, or
entity for water, sewer, MS4, and/or garbage collection services shall be
satisfied prior to the initiation of new services.
   (E)   Any payment for services made by check that is returned for any reason
shall be subject to a $35 returned check fee. All checks returned shall be
satisfied within two business days of notification to the drawer of the check.
Any accounts paid with a check returned and not satisfied within two business
days shall have services suspended until the returned check is satisfied.
Postdated checks shall not be accepted.
   (F)   If a property receiving services is transferred for any reason,
deposits shall be applied to any outstanding balances. Services shall continue
to be billed to the property owner of record until proof of said transfer is
provided to the town and such services are transferred or terminated.
(Ord. G-13-13, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 50.05 LATE PAYMENT FEES FOR UTILITIES WAIVED.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby waives any and all late fees for residents of
the town which are paid by the Georgetown Township Trustee for utility bill
payments.
   (B)   The waiver of these utility bill late fees by the Town Council is in
effect until further direction by the Town Council.
(Ord. G-16-12, passed 11-21-2016)
AFFECTING MULTIPLE UTILITIES
§ 50.20 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP; MONTHLY CHARGES PRORATED.
   Upon the transfer of a parcel from one user of the town water and sewer
utilities to another or new user of the town water and sewer utilities, the
minimum monthly charges under §§
53.120 through
53.128 shall be prorated between the previous user and the new user so that the
previous user pays a portion of the minimum monthly charges for the period
during that billing cycle up to and including the date of transfer, and that
the new user pays a portion of the minimum monthly utility charges for the
period from the date of the transfer to the end of the billing period.
(2005 Code, § 50.15) (Ord. G-04-25, passed 7-15-2004)
§ 50.21 DISCONTINUATION OF WATER AND GARBAGE SERVICES FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   The town shall implement and administer a policy of discontinuing
water/sewer or garbage collection service, upon ten days’ prior notice, for any
customer whose water bill, garbage collection bill, or water/garbage bill is at
least 30 days delinquent.
   (B)   The town shall allow certain exceptions to the rule authorizing
discontinuation of water or garbage collection services, which shall include
unusual circumstances, medical emergencies or hardships, or public safety
concerns.
   (C)   The discontinuation of water or garbage collection services for
nonpayment of bills shall be after notice to the customer of opportunity to
contest the discontinuation and contingent upon approval by the President of
the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 50.16) (Ord. G-99-07, passed 7-27-1999; Ord. G-03-30, passed 11-
18-2003)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   For each day any person or entity shall be in violation of §
50.01 after the electrical, cable, telephone, or utility line, or conduit has
been installed, laid, or placed, that person shall be fined an amount not less
than $50 per day or not more than $500 per day.
(2005 Code, § 50.99) (Ord. G-94-20, passed 11-7-1994)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE REGULATIONS
Section
Policies
   
51.01   Sole provider
   
51.02   Admissible items for collection
   
51.03   Collection process; volume limitations
   
51.04   Monthly brush and yard waste collection
   
51.05   Recycling
   
51.06   Large item collection; Junk Day
   
51.07   Container size
Fees
   
51.20   Sanitation Utility Fund created
   
51.21   Monthly charge
   
51.22   Service charge; delinquent fees
   
51.23   Effective date
Disposal by Other Persons
   
51.35   Services for residents only
   
51.36   Use of Town Dump
 
   
51.99   Penalty
POLICIES
§ 51.01 SOLE PROVIDER.
   (A)   The town shall be the sole provider for refuse and garbage collection
for any and all single-family dwellings of the town.
   (B)   Any business, commercial or industrial establishment, or apartment
complex may elect to have garbage removed by a private contractor, and if that
election is made, then no service charge shall apply from the town.
   (C)   By the same token, no occupied residential dwelling is exempt from
garbage collection service by the town, regardless of how small the volume of
garbage is generated.
(2005 Code, § 51.01) (Ord. G-04-17, passed 6-24-2004)
§ 51.02 ADMISSIBLE ITEMS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Only normal household garbage as set forth in §
51.04 will be collected by the town’s garbage collection service.
      (2)   Any items which are prohibited by the Clark-Floyd Counties Landfill
Regulation shall also be prohibited items to be picked up by the town garbage
collection service.
      (3)   Prohibited items include, but are not limited to: air conditioners;
any cooling compressor (with refrigerant chemical); ammunition; flammable
liquids (grease, oil, gas, fuel, solvents and the like); freezers; paint (empty
cans or dried paint are acceptable); refrigerators; tires; and/or hazardous
materials.
      (4)   Automotive batteries will be accepted if they are set out
separately from the other garbage.
   (B)   Bags or cans with broken glass and/or other sharp objects, especially
hypodermic syringes, shall be properly labeled for the safety of the town’s
garbage collection employees.
(2005 Code, § 51.02) (Ord. G-04-17, passed 6-24-2004)
§ 51.03 COLLECTION PROCESS; VOLUME LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Garbage is collected at curbside once weekly, with exact collection
days dependent upon where an individual house is located in the town and the
established collection routes.
   (B)   Garbage containers shall not exceed 45 gallons in size, if they are
plastic, or 30 gallons in size, if they are metal. Loose garbage bags shall be
tied at the top and shall not exceed 30 gallons in size. The loaded weight of
any garbage container shall not exceed 50 pounds. If, when a container becomes
broken/damaged to the point that it can no longer be safely handled by a town
garbage collection employee, it shall be left at curbside, unemptied.
   (C)   The town’s garbage collection employees shall not throw or kick
garbage cans after emptying them. Each container will be placed back on the
ground at or near the location from which the container was picked up. By the
same token, the town employee is not responsible for wind or other forces which
may subsequently blow the container over, or where the container may roll after
it falls over.
(2005 Code, § 51.03) (Ord. G-08-10A, passed 3-18-2008)
§ 51.04 MONTHLY BRUSH AND YARD WASTE COLLECTION.
   Brush and yard waste will be collected on the first Tuesday of each month.
Brush is not garbage and is identified as a prohibited item and cannot be
collected with garbage. Brush must be canned, bagged, or bundled into no more
than four-foot long sections so that one person can safely handle the yard
waste disposal. Any clippings must be canned, bagged, or boxed; loose clippings
will not be collected.
(2005 Code, § 51.04) (Ord. G-08-10A, passed 3-18-2008)
§ 51.05 RECYCLING.
   Recycling services are provided by the town. Every resident pays for
recycling in the monthly garbage fee, but participation in the recycling
program is voluntary. Those residents who wish to participate will be issued a
recycling container with a lid by requesting one from the town’s utility
billing office. Participants are to place their recycling bin at curbside on
Thursday of each week. The following materials are picked up for recycling:
aluminum cans; tin cans (clean of foodstuffs); cardboard; plastics; newspaper;
and/or white office paper. It is important that the recycling materials be kept
dry by the resident; please use the lid provided.
(2005 Code, § 51.05) (Ord. G-08-10A, passed 3-18-2008)
§ 51.06 LARGE ITEM COLLECTION; JUNK DAY.
   Junk Day is the third Tuesday of each month. The Public Works Department
will collect all manner of large items from its citizenry. The list of
prohibited items as set forth in §
51.02(A) is still in force, but any items not prohibited and not routinely
picked up by the town will be picked up on these days. Examples of collectable
items include, but are not limited to: overstuffed furniture; tables; chairs;
ovens; washers; dryers; televisions; and the like. One large item will be
picked up on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays without an additional charge. A
24-hour notice of request should be made to the town’s utility billing office.
(2005 Code, § 51.06) (Ord. G-08-10A, passed 3-18-2008)
§ 51.07 CONTAINER SIZE.
   (A)   Fifty-five-gallon containers are no longer allowed to be used for the
disposal of garbage. The town’s garbage collection process is performed by
manual labor and the 55-gallon containers filled with garbage are too heavy to
be safely lifted by a person.
   (B)   The town’s garbage customers shall have until July 1, 2004 to replace
their existing 55-gallon drums with a smaller container. After July 1, any 55-
gallon drum with garbage in it for collection will be left uncollected.
(2005 Code, § 51.07) (Ord. G-04-17, passed 6-24-2004)
FEES
§ 51.20 SANITATION UTILITY FUND CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Sanitation Utility Fund.
   (B)   This Fund shall be the repository for all revenues generated by the
garbage collection process.
   (C)   The Fund shall also be the source from which all expenditures relating
to the garbage collection process shall be paid.
(2005 Code, § 51.20) (Ord. G-04-17, passed 6-24-2004)
§ 51.21 MONTHLY CHARGE.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby sets the following rates and charges for the
town for solid waste collection and disposal:
Monthly Solid Waste Fee
Monthly Solid Waste Fee
In Town
   Residential                 $22.00
   Commercial                  $44.00
   Residential Duplex          $44.00
   Residential 3-Plex          $66.00
   Residential 4-Plex          $88.00
   Duplex Separate             $22.00
   Residential 4-Plex Separate $22.00
Out of Town                        
   Single/Multi Family Residenc$26.00
   Commercial                  $52.00
 
   (B)   The rates and charges, as approved and adopted herein, shall be owed,
each month, by each property owner.
(2005 Code, § 51.21) (Ord. G-07-29, passed 9-20-2007; Res. R-08-03, passed 3-
18-2008; Ord. G-23-05, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 51.22 SERVICE CHARGE; DELINQUENT FEES.
   (A)   Service charges for refuse and garbage collection as specified herein
shall be billed and collected by the utility billing office of the town.
   (B)   (1)   In the event the customer does not pay his or her monthly town
utility bill in full, the garbage portion of that bill may be subject to a 10%
late charge per month of nonpayment.
      (2)   In the event the town is required to bring suit for any nonpayment
of the garbage bill, each owner, tenant, or occupant who fails to pay the
garbage bill shall be responsible for court costs and attorney fees incurred by
the town for collection purposes.
      (3)   In addition, there shall be a $15 service charge for each account
certified by the Clerk-Treasurer as delinquent and sent to the Town Attorney
for collection.
(2005 Code, § 51.22) (Ord. G-04-17, passed 6-24-2004)
§ 51.23 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections
51.01 through
51.07 and
51.20 through
51.22 of this chapter shall be in full force and effect as of the first utility
billing cycle after August 1, 2004.
(2005 Code, § 51.23) (Ord. G-04-17, passed 6-24-2004)
DISPOSAL BY OTHER PERSONS
§ 51.35 SERVICES FOR RESIDENTS ONLY.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, RESIDENTS means any person permanently
residing in a household within the town limits and any business whose principal
office is located within the town limits.
   (B)   The town refuse and garbage services are to be provided for and may be
used only by the town itself and the residents thereof.
   (C)   In no case may a nonresident place, leave, dump, use, or dispose of
refuse or property in the town limits for purposes of availing any person,
firm, or corporation of the use of the town’s refuse or garbage services, nor
cause to be placed, left, or dumped any refuse or property of any nonresident
within the town limits for purposes of availing that person, firm, or
corporation of the use of the town’s refuse or garbage services.
(2005 Code, § 51.35) (Ord. G-85-05, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.36 USE OF TOWN DUMP.
   From and after this date, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to dump refuse, garbage, or any material, waste, or otherwise, in
or about the Town Dump of the town without first having secured permission from
the Town Council or the duly appointed agent of the Council in charge of the
Town Dump.
(2005 Code, § 51.36) (Ord. G-66-01, passed 7-13-1966) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of §§
51.01 through
51.07,
51.20, and
51.21 shall be punishable by a fine of up to $100 for each violation. Each day
the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   Fines are payable to the Clerk-Treasurer and may be billed on the
customer’s utility bills, with normal monthly fees for utility usage.
   (C)   A violation of §
51.35 shall carry a penalty of a $100 fine for each violation.
(2005 Code, § 51.99) (Ord. G-85-05, passed - -; Ord. G-04-17, passed 6-24-2004)
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
52.01   Removal from State Regulatory Commission
   
52.02   Tampering with distribution system prohibited
   
52.03   Fire sprinkler service
   
52.04   Hose bibb meter rentals
   
52.05   Water leak adjustment policy
   
52.06   Payment of fire hydrant rental costs by Indiana American Water Company
ratepayers
   
52.07   Reading of water meters; customer rights and responsibilities
   
52.08   Cross-connection control program
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 REMOVAL FROM STATE REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The town’s water utility shall be removed from the jurisdiction of the IURC
for approval of rates and charges and of the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes,
and other evidence of indebtedness.
(2005 Code, § 52.01) (Ord. G-95-2, passed 6-13-1995)
§ 52.02 TAMPERING WITH DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall alter, adjust, tamper with, manipulate,
obstruct, interfere with, or exert control over all or any part of the public
water distribution system owned and operated by the town and/or the Water
Department.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, UNAUTHORIZED PERSON shall mean any
person other than an employee or agent of the town and/or the Water Department.
(2005 Code, § 52.02) (Ord. G-04-29, passed 9-16-2004) Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.03 FIRE SPRINKLER SERVICE.
   (A)   All fire sprinkler systems shall be installed with a valve to detect
leakage and unauthorized water usage and to protect against the flow of non-
potable water into water supply lines. Such valves shall have a cast iron body
and cover with replaceable bronze seats, with a maximum working pressure of 175
pounds per square inch (psi). Such valves shall have a temperature range of
330°F to 1,100°F (50°C to 403°C). Such valves shall have a hydrostatic test
range of 350 psi. Moreover, they shall meet such reasonable specifications as
directed by the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   The water service availability fees, setting the rates and charges for
water usage including fees for capacity, fees for new service tap ins, debt
services fees, and that the same shall not apply to connections for fire
sprinkler systems because there is no contemplated use of water associated with
such systems, except for charging lines and for emergencies.
   (C)   All reasonable costs incurred by the town to install and connect such
service shall be paid prior to connection.
(Ord. G-10-16, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 52.04 HOSE BIBB METER RENTALS.
   (A)   The hose bibb meters will be available for customers to rent from May
1 through September 30.
   (B)   The hose bibb meters will be made available for seasonal, monthly, or
short term rentals (all days are considered calendar days unless specified
otherwise).
      (1)   Seasonal rentals will run from May 1 through September 30 (five
months) and shall be at a rate of $5 per month (30 days).
      (2)   Monthly rentals shall run for a period of eight days to 30 days and
shall be at a flat rate of $10 for usage of eight to 30 days.
      (3)   Short term rentals shall run for a period of seven days or less and
shall be at a flat rate of $5 for the usage up to seven days.
   (C)   Customers must pay an $80 security deposit for the hose bibb meters.
The security deposit shall be returned to the customer, in either the form of a
check or a credit to their utility bill, once the hose bibb meter has been
returned and it has been verified to contain no damage.
   (D)   The customer shall receive a credit to his or her sewer account on his
or her next utility billing period following the return of the hose bibb meter.
The credit will not occur during the use or term of the rental of the meter.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer or designee shall mark the meter reading before
and after the rental of the hose bibb meter, on the rental agreement, to allow
for the calculation of the amount of water that did not enter the sewer system
to determine any credit owed the customer.
   (F)   All hose bibb meter rentals shall require the execution, containing
the signature of the customer renting the meter, of the water meter rental
agreement.
   (G)   The water meter rental agreement shall set out the terms of the rental
period. No credit shall be issued by the town until said period has terminated
and a calculation has been completed to determine any credit owed the customer.
   (H)   Sewer customers, who are non-town water customers and have an
irrigation system, shall have the opportunity to receive a credit on their
sewer bill for the months of May, June, July, August, or September. Said credit
shall be calculated using the average of the customers preceding six months for
said customer. In the event there is not a preceding six-month history for said
customer, the average shall be based on the maximum number of months available
for analysis. In the event that no previous months are available for averaging,
2,000 gallons of usage per person in the household shall be used.
(Ord. G-15-08, passed 5-18-2015; Ord. G-15-17, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 52.05 WATER LEAK ADJUSTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LEAK. An unintentional water loss caused by broken or malfunctioning
pipes or plumbing fixtures at a residence or business.
      NON-SEWER AFFECTED LEAK. When water lost from a leak does not enter the
town’s sewer system. Examples include, but are not limited to: leaks
underground, not associated with irrigation systems, or in walls; frozen and
burst pipes, not associated with irrigation systems; outdoor spigots or hose
leaks; faulty water heaters or pressure reducing valves, where such devices are
not easily accessible or visible; and/or vandalism to plumbing or theft of
water that is documented with a police report.
      SEWER AFFECTED LEAK. When water loss from the leak enters the town’s
sewer system. Examples include, but are not limited to: leaking toilet(s); and/
or leaking faucet(s).
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   The excess water metered shall have occurred as a result of
conditions beyond reasonable control of the customer or other parties
responsible for the use, care, and maintenance of fixtures and devices that are
a part of the customer’s water service system.
      (2)   It is the customer’s responsibility to promptly discover and stop
the loss of water. In addition, the customer is responsible for making
arrangements to repair or have repaired the fixture or device causing the water
loss.
      (3)   Although, there is no obligation for the town to adjust accounts
when the water has been metered properly, it is the town’s desire to encourage
customers to make prompt and permanent repairs and to show consideration for
the unusual circumstances by sharing the cost of the billing charges for lost
water.
      (4)   (a)   The customer must provide information describing the
emergency situation or circumstances that resulted in the loss of water. A
written report or e-mail to town utilities are acceptable forms of
notification. The report shall include the cause of the water loss, when the
problem was discovered, what action was taken to stop the loss of water, and
the arrangements made for repairs.
         (b)   Written reports may be delivered to the town utilities as
follows:
            1.   Hand delivery. Attn: Georgetown Utilities, 9111 State Road 64,
Georgetown, Indiana, 47122.
            2.   Postal delivery. Attn: Georgetown Utilities, PO Box 127,
Georgetown, Indiana 47122-0127.
            3.   E-mail. Julia.keibler@georgetown.in.gov.
      (5)   When a repair is completed, the customer shall provide evidence of
completed work. A copy of the plumber’s bill or a statement of materials
purchased, if the customer performed the repair, is acceptable evidence. In the
case that no materials were required, a written statement and photos by the
customer is acceptable stating what repairs were made or action taken. The Town
Council, in coordination with the Public Works Director, shall determine the
acceptability of such statements at the next regularly scheduled Council
meeting.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the customer’s written statement describing the
water loss and copies of invoices, receipts, or statements documenting repair,
the Town Council, in coordination with the Public Works Director, shall
evaluate the circumstances surrounding the water loss.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee, upon determination by
the Town Council that an adjustment is appropriate under the policy, shall
calculate the adjustment under the following guidelines.
         (a)   If it is determined the loss of water is a non-sewer affected
leak, the customer shall receive the town’s wholesale water rate plus 10%
service charge on the amount in excess of the previous 12-months average meter
reading. One-hundred percent of the sewer charges for the excess gallons shall
be waived. The customer shall be responsible for his or her average usage for
water and sewer utilities at regular rates, as well as any debt service or
fixed charges that normally appear on his or her town utility bill.
         (b)   If it is determined it is sewer affected leak, the customer
shall receive the town’s wholesale water rate plus 10% service charge on the
amount in excess of the previous 12-months average meter reading. Fifty percent
of the sewer charges for the excess gallons shall be waived. The customer shall
be responsible for his or her average usage for water and sewer utilities at
regular rates, as well as any debt service or fixed charges that normally
appear on his or her town utility bill.
         (c)   If a 12-month average is not available (new customer), the
average shall be based on the maximum number of months available for analysis.
In the event that no previous months are available for averaging, 2,000 gallons
of usage per person in the household or the rate of consumption after repairs,
whichever is greater, shall be used.
      (3)   No adjustment shall be made for a period in excess of one billing
period. The billing period adjustment shall be limited to one month in cases of
adjustment for a sewer affected leak. Not more than one such adjustment shall
be allowed for any given 12-month period per location.
      (4)   No adjustment shall be made when the request for the adjustment is
received more than 30 days after the billing date of the bill to be adjusted in
the case of an active customer or 30 days after the billing date of a final
bill. Exception shall only be made if proof of extraordinary mitigating
circumstances is presented to the Town Council at a regularly scheduled
meeting.
      (5)   Adjustments shall not be allowed for water loss arising from
carelessness, negligence, or lack of due diligence on the part of the customer,
as determined by the Town Council in coordination with the Public Works
Director. It is the customer’s responsibility to promptly discover and stop the
loss of water.
(Ord. G-15-04, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 52.06 PAYMENT OF FIRE HYDRANT RENTAL COSTS BY INDIANA AMERICAN WATER COMPANY
RATEPAYERS.
   (A)   The provisions of I.C. 8-1-2-103(d) are hereby adopted such that the
charges for production, storage, transmission, sale and delivery, or furnishing
of water for public fire protection purposes shall be included in the basic
rates of all customers of Indiana American Water Company and its successors and
assigns as regulated by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, and as
detailed in Exhibit A.
   (B)   The effective date for addition of these changes in the basic rate
shall be at the time the water utility is transferred to Indiana American Water
Company. After said date, the cost of any fire hydrant installed at the request
of the town shall be paid by or on behalf of the town.
Exhibit A
Public Fire Service Rate Estimates
Meter Size Monthly Charge
Exhibit A
Public Fire Service Rate Estimates
Meter Size Monthly Charge
5/8"       $4.78
3/4"       7.17
1"         11.94
1-1/2"     23.90
2"         38.23
3"         71.68
4"         119.47
6"         238.95
8"         382.32
10"        621.26
12"        1,027.47
 
(Ord. G-17-04, passed 10-30-2017)
§ 52.07 READING OF WATER METERS; CUSTOMER RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   All water meters shall be easily accessible for the purpose of town or
Water Department employees reading or maintaining the same for Water Department
purposes.
      (1)   The duty to keep such meters accessible shall be on the owner and,
if applicable, tenant of the property served by such meter.
      (2)   ACCESSIBLE shall mean free from any impediment such as a locked
gate, enclosure, or unchained domestic animal which would make it unsafe or
unreasonable for a person going onto the customer’s property.
   (B)   (1)   If the town or Water Department determines a water meter to be
inaccessible, notice shall be sent to the customer along with a request to
remedy the situation and make the meter accessible.
      (2)   In the event the customer fails to comply with the notice to remedy
the situation within 30 days after such notice is sent, an additional notice
shall be sent setting a date for compliance.
      (3)   Said date for compliance shall be no earlier than ten days after
the date of said additional notice, after which the town or Water Department
shall be entitled to disconnect water service to the property until the
deficiency is corrected.
(2005 Code, § 52.24) (Ord. G-15-05, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 52.08 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM.
   (A)   A CROSS-CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town’s water system, and the other from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of the
flow depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter into the supply or distribution system of the town,
unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply shall have been
approved by the town’s Water Utility and by the State Department of
Environmental Management in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the town’s Water Utility to cause inspections
to be made of all properties served by the public water system where cross-
connections with the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and re-inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be established by the town’s water utility.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town’s
water utility shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine the property served by a connection to the public water system of the
town for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any
property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system, or systems, on such property. The
refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed
prima facie evidence of the presence of cross-connection.
   (E)   The town’s water utility is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served upon
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection(s) has/have been eliminated in accordance
with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the town’s water utility that a cross-connection or
an emergency endangers the public health, safety, or welfare and requires
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be immediately
discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten
days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users shall install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow
preventer in the main water line serving each building on the premises. The
backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not
subject to flooding or freezing.
   (H)   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level.
   (I)   This section does not supersede the state’s Plumbing Code, the IDEM
Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10, or any plumbing ordinance of the town, but is
supplementary to them.
   (J)   In addition to IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10-4 (c), certain customer
facilities, as determined by the town’s water utility need a backflow
prevention device (see division (L) below for list of potential hazards).
   (K)   If, in the judgment of the Water Operator, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the
Water Operator will give notice to the water consumer to install such an
approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his or her own
expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner approved
by the Water Operator and shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved devices as required by the Water Operator and in accordance with IDEM
Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
   (L)   (1)   Almost all water-using facilities may have actual or potential
cross-connection hazards. The following is a partial list of facilities where
cross-connections are likely to be found and the recommended device for
backflow prevention. The type of device or method of protection required should
be commensurate with the degree of hazard.
Facility Device
Facility                                                   Device
Aircraft and missile plants                                RP
Automotive plants                                          RP
Beverage bottling plants                                   RP
Breweries                                                  RP
Canneries, packing houses, and reduction plants            DC
Car washes                                                 RP
Chemical plants                                            RP
Commercial laundries and dye works                         RP
Dairies and cold storage plants                            DC
Fertilizer manufacturing plants                            RP
Film laboratories                                          RP
Fountains                                                  AG/RP/PVB/SPVB/DC
Laboratories                                               RP
Medical buildings, hospitals, mortuaries, morgues,         RP
sanitariums, and nursing homes
Metal manufacturing, cleaning, plating, processing, and    RP
fabricating plants
Motion picture studios                                     RP
Oil and gas production plants                              RP
Paper and paper products plants                            RP
Photo labs                                                 RP
Power plants                                               RP
Rubber plants                                              RP
Schools and colleges with laboratories                     RP
Swimming pools                                             AG/RP/PVB/DC
Wastewater treatment plants and wastewater and storm water RP
pumping station
Water treatment plants                                     RP
Waterfront facilities and industries                       RP
 
      (2)   Any fixture with a submerged inlet could be a cross-connection
hazard. Potential cross-connections exist between the consumer’s water system
and the following fixtures. The devices listed are only recommendations. The
type of device or method of protection required should be commensurate with the
degree of hazard.
Fixture Device
Fixture                                                            Device
Air-conditioning equipment with dual safe and unsafe water         RP
supplies or with direct sewer connection for wastewater
Any direct connection between water pipes and sewers, even though  RP
gate valves are used
Any individual vat, tank, and the like which has an inverted water
supply connection or a water supply connection below the top of    RP
the spill rim
Aquariums with a below the rim water inlet                         AG/RP
Aspirators on chemical sprayers                                    AVB
Aspirator on surgical, dental, or industrial equipment operated by AVB
water ejector
Automatic device for filling tanks, boilers, and vats which have   AG/AVB
overflow connections to a sewer
Automatic soap dispenser                                           AG/AVB
Baptistery with below the rim water connection                     AG/AVB
Bath with below the rim water connection                           Not allowed
Bedpan washer and sterilizer with below the rim water connection,  AVB
or with inverted water supply subject to direct contamination
Bidet with submerged inlet                                         AVB
Bird bath with submerged inlet                                     AG/RP
Boilers                                                            AG/RP
Cellar drains of the water ejector type                            AG
Cistern supply in private home, cross connected with the town      RP
supply
Coffee urn with direct water supply and sewer connections          AVB
Combination faucet with one safe and one unsafe supply             AVB
Commercial dishwashing machines                                    AVB
Condenser on medical and industrial equipment                      AG/RP
Cuspidor with water supply connection                              RP
Dental cuspidor and saliva ejector with unprotected water supply   RP
connection
Dishwasher with water inlet below the rim                          AVB
Drinking fountain with submerged water inlet or with the water     Not allowed
supply line passing through the drain
Dual water supplies cross connected in factories and the like      RP
Dual water supplies, such as hot water supply from an unsafe       AG/RP
source
Egg boiler having direct water supply and sewer connections        AVB
Ejector actuated by direct water connection                        RP
Filter with waste connected direct to sewer                        AG
Fire hydrant with drain connection to sewer or weephole to the     RP
sewer or to the ground surrounding the sewer
Fish pond with submerged water inlet                               AG/RP
Floor drain having automatic device for sealing                    AG
Floor drain with flushing connection, often used in operating      AVB
rooms
Flush meter valve not protected with siphon breaker                AVB
Foot tub with submerged water inlet                                Not allowed
Frost-proof hydrant, whether or not the valve drains to the sewer  AVB
or to the ground surrounding the sewer
Garbage can washers                                                AVB/PVBA
Gas-type chlorinator with dual feed to mixing basin and clear well AG/RP
Grease trap with water supply connection for flushing              AG
Hose for sink, laundry tray, soap kettles, and the like            AVB
Hose outlets for washing down industrial, commercial, or other     AVB
equipment
Hospital equipment such as autoclave, instrument sterilizer,
utensil sterilizer, and the like, with submerged inlets and with   RP
direct connections to the sewer
Hydraulic elevator with waste connection direct to sewer           AG
Industrial processes requiring direct water connections            RP
Industrial water supplies process appliances with direct water     RP
supply connections not having adequate air gaps
Kitchen fixtures with common waste and supply lines                Not allowed
Kitchen sink garbage disposal or grinder                           AG/AVB
Lawn sprinkling systems                                            SPVB/PVB/DCV
Lawn sprinkling systems with automatic chemical dispenser          SPVB/PVB/RP
Leaky water main or service near sewer                             RP
Make-up water tank at swimming pool with below-water inlet         AG
Ordinary home and store-type evaporative air cooling units, with a RP
float valve to maintain water at a constant level
Pump pit with drain connection to sump or sewer line               AG
Pump used for dual purposes, with one safe and one unsafe supply   AG/RP
Pump used for unsafe material having a direct water connection for AG/RP
priming
Refrigeration equipment with water cooling                         AG/RP
Rubber hose connection extending water line to below the overflow
rim of sinks, lavatories, tanks, tubs, laboratory apparatus, and   AVB
the like
Rubber hose with hand control or self-closing faucets attached, as
used in connection with baths, industrial vats, containers, and    AVB
the like
Sealing ring on sewage pump with direct water connection           AG/RP
Seat-action water closet with pressure tank having a flush valve   AVB
in or attached to the bowl
Sewage lift with direct water connection                           AG/RP
Sinks with below-the-rim water inlets                              Not allowed
Siphon flush tank with water connection below the overflow rim     AG
Sludge line with direct water connection for flushing              AG/RP
Steam table with water supply connection entering the bottom of    AVB
the table
Sterilizers of all kinds, both medical and dental, with submerged  RP
inlets
Still with direct water connection                                 RP
Swimming pool with direct water connection                         AG/RP
Tank with inverted supply or below-the-rim supply                  AG
Therapeutic bath with submerged inlet                              AG
Toilet equipped with flush meter valve attached to the bowl        AVB
Tumbler washer in beverage sink having submerged inlet             AG/AVB
Urinal having direct flushing device                               AG
Vat with inverted supply or below-the-rim supply                   AG/RP
Water closet of the hopper type with pressure tank having a flush  AVB
valve in or attached to the bowl
Water cooler improperly designed and using toxic refrigerant which RP
may pollute the water supply
Water-operated aspirator in undertaking establishments, hospitals, AVB
and the like
Water-operated aspirator on a suction flask in laboratories, and   AVB
the like
Water softener waste discharge or overflow pipe                    AG
Watering troughs (dairies, hog farms, and horse stables)           AG/AVB
X-ray developing tank with submerged water supply inlet            RP
Yard hydrant having drip openings below ground surface that may    RP
allow polluted ground water to drain into the water supply pipes
 
(Ord. G-13-06, passed 6-17-2013)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be in violation of §
52.02 shall be subject to a fine in an amount not less than $100 nor more than
$500 for each violation. Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (2)   Any person found to be in violation of §
52.02 shall be liable to the town and/or the Water Department for any and all
damages caused by the violation.
      (3)   Any person found to be in violation of §
52.02 shall be liable to the town and/or the Water Department for any costs
incurred to enforce that section, including reasonable attorney fees.
(2005 Code, § 52.99)
      (4)   Any revenues received by the town due to fines assessed to someone
who has violated §
52.02 shall be distributed to the Water Operating Fund.
(Ord. G-06-10, passed 4-20-2006)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Discharge to natural outlets
Sewer Systems
   
53.015   Use of public sewers required
   
53.016   Private wastewater disposal; permit
   
53.017   Septic tank construction
   
53.018   Septic tank connection
Building Sewers; Connections
   
53.030   Permit required
   
53.031   Classes of permits; fees
   
53.032   Installation and connection costs
   
53.033   Separate sewer for each building
   
53.034   Construction details
   
53.035   Elevation at building
   
53.036   Cross-connections
   
53.037   Connection of building to public sewer
   
53.038   Inspection
   
53.039   Excavations
Use of Sewers; Remedies
   
53.050   Damage to public sewers
   
53.051   Unpolluted discharges to sanitary sewer prohibited
   
53.052   Storm sewers
   
53.053   Prohibited substances
   
53.054   Restricted substances
   
53.055   Discharge violations
   
53.056   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
53.057   Pretreatment facilities
   
53.058   Sampling and measurement
   
53.059   Compliance; required information
   
53.060   Measurements, tests, and analyses
   
53.061   Special agreements
   
53.062   Test procedures
Enforcement
   
53.075   Inspectors; powers and authority
   
53.076   Appeals
Residential and Commercial
On-Site Sewage Disposal Systems
   
53.090   Applicability; administration
   
53.091   Definitions
   
53.092   Interpretation
   
53.093   Health hazard declared
   
53.094   Right of entry
   
53.095   Prohibited acts
   
53.096   Residential permits
   
53.097   Commercial permits
   
53.098   Permit denial
   
53.099   Permit revocation or modification
   
53.100   Licenses
   
53.101   Orders of Health Officer and Board
   
53.102   Petition for review
   
53.103   Enforcement
   
53.104   Miscellaneous
Rates and Charges
   
53.120   Definitions
   
53.121   Establishment of charges
   
53.122   User defined; town charges; monitoring costs
   
53.123   Reserved
   
53.124   Unmetered water users
   
53.125   Measurement of water used; adjustments
   
53.126   Basis of charges
   
53.127   Rate surcharges
   
53.128   Capacity fees
   
53.129   Billing and collection
   
53.130   Periodic review
   
53.131   Bylaws
   
53.132   Dumping of waste prohibited
   
53.133   Appeals
   
53.134   Special rate contracts
   
53.135   Deposits; refunds
   
53.136   Construction fee
   
53.137   Builder landscaping relief
   
53.138   Sanitary sewer review fee
   
53.139   Disconnection charge
Miscellaneous; Administration
   
53.150   No free service; non-annexed property
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMONIA or NH3. All nitrogen in water, wastewater, or other liquid waste
present in the form ammonia (NH3) or other ammonium ion (NH4+).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain, through and including
a suitable septic tank to the public sewer.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others including, but not limited to, right of access to the property’s septic
tank for the purposes of cleaning and inspection.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business, as distinct from domestic sanitary wastes.
   MAY. The action referred to is permissive. (See SHALL.)
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTES. Sanitary wastes which do not exceed 225 mg/l BOD or
225 mg/l S.S. in strength.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit obtained from the state by the town to discharge
treated wastewaters of the town into a watercourse.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PHOSPHORUS or P. The chemical element phosphorus.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater.
   SEWER SUPERVISOR. The Supervisor of wastewater facilities of the town or his
or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory. (See MAY.)
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. A drain for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water or
unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (S.S.). Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of or is in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that
is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as NONFILTERABLE RESIDUE.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCES. Concentrations of a pollutant or combination of pollutants
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307 of the Clean Water Act (as
amended).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to, or better than, the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(2005 Code, § 53.001) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.002 DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any house, building,
or property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes
situated within the town to discharge to any natural outlet within the town, or
to discharge in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sewage,
industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided and approved by the County Health Department or the State Board
of Health.
   (B)   Any owner or occupant found to be violating this section may be served
by the President of the Town Council or his or her agent, or by the Health
Officer for the county or the state, with a written order stating the nature of
the violation and providing a time limit set for the satisfactory correction
thereof.
(2005 Code, § 53.002) (Ord. G-89-01, passed 7-10-1989) Penalty, see §
53.999
SEWER SYSTEMS
§ 53.015 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property with the town,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of §§
53.015 through
53.017,
53.030 through
53.039,
53.050 through
53.062,
53.075, and
53.076.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   (1)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
town and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town, is
hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein and to connect the facilities via the building sewer (through and
including a suitable septic tank) to the proper public sewer in accordance with
the provisions of §§
53.015 through
53.017,
53.030 through
53.039,
53.050 through
53.062,
53.075, and
53.076, within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that
the public sewer is within 300 feet (91.14 meters) of the property line.
      (2)   As a condition of connection to a public sewer, the owner(s) shall
grant a right-of-access easement to the septic tank to the town for the purpose
of cleaning and inspection.
(2005 Code, § 53.015)
      (3)   The requirements of division (D)(1), above, shall not apply to any
house, building, or other property which is annexed into the town with an
already functioning septic tank sewage treatment system. If said property is
annexed into the town with a properly permitted and functioning septic tank,
the Town Council cannot and shall not require said property owner to abandon
his or her properly operating private septic tank in exchange for a mandated
connection to the town’s sewer system. If, on the other hand, the state’s or
county’s Health Department identifies that a septic tank is not functioning,
only an order from the Health Department can require a property owner to
abandon his or her septic tank and to connect onto the town’s sewer system, at
the property owner’s expense. If such an abandonment of an existing septic tank
system is required, the property owner shall comply with all federal, state and
local laws governing such an abandonment. In such a case, the property owner
will be required to pay the sewer service capacity fee to the town, in addition
to any other fees and permits required to connect a new sanitary sewer service
into the town’s sewer system.
   (E)   Any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, already situated within the town by
January 1, 2004, and built prior to 1998 with a properly permitted and
functioning septic tank, the Town Council cannot and shall not require said
property owner to abandon his or her properly operating private septic tank in
exchange for a mandated connection to the town’s sewer system. If, on the other
hand, the state’s or county’s Health Department identifies that a septic tank
is not functioning, only an order from the Health Department can require a
property owner to abandon his or her septic tank and to connect onto the town’s
sewer system, at the property owner’s expense. If such an abandonment of an
existing septic tank system is required, the property owner shall comply with
all federal, state, and local laws governing such an abandonment. In such a
case, the property owner will be required to pay the sewer service capacity fee
to the town, in addition to any other fees and permits required to connect a
new sanitary sewer service into the town’s sewer system.
(Ord. G-07-27, passed 9-20-2007) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.016 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL; PERMIT.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.015(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   (1)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater
disposal system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
designated official from the State or County Health Department. The application
for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the town, which the
applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other information
as are deemed necessary by the designated official from the State or County
Health Department.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee of $15 shall be paid to the town at the
time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Sewer
Director. The Sewer Director shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the town’s Building Department when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the town’s Building Department.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all provisions of the county ordinance
regulating private waste disposal systems. No permit shall be issued for any
private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the area of the lot is less than the square feet allowed by
the county ordinance. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet, directly or indirectly via field tile, storm
drain or any other conveyance other than a public sanitary sewer.
   (E)   Any abandoned septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private wastewater
disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and, if not used as a component
of the building sewer, filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the town.
(2005 Code, § 53.016) (Ord. G-07-13, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 53.017 SEPTIC TANK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Septic tanks serving as a component of the building sewer shall be
installed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with applicable portions
of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1-1 et seq.
   (B)   A septic tank so installed, constructed, and maintained shall be
considered suitable for use as a component of a building sewer.
   (C)   Two copies of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1-1 et seq. are on file in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
(2005 Code, § 53.017) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.018 SEPTIC TANK CONNECTION.
   (A)   For the owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, and which were
purchased or constructed after August 17, 1992, and situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way on which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town, it
is hereby required that, at the owner’s expense, the owner install a suitable
septic tank therein and to connect the facilities via the building sewer
(through and including a suitable septic tank), to the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of §§
53.015 through
53.017,
53.030 through
53.039,
53.050 through
53.062,
53.075, and
53.076 , within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided
that the public sewer is within 300 feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
   (B)   As a condition of connection to a public sewer, the owner shall grant
a right-of-access easement to the septic tank to the town for the purpose of
cleaning, inspecting, maintaining, and testing.
(2005 Code, § 53.018) (Ord. G-93-02, passed 7-27-1993)
BUILDING SEWERS; CONNECTIONS
§ 53.030 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections, or disturb
any public sewer or appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a written
permit from the Superintendent. This permission shall be subject to the
existence of sufficient hydraulic and/or treatment capacities of the sewerage
and/or wastewater treatment facilities as determined by the town.
(2005 Code, § 53.030) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.031 CLASSES OF PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits, for residential
and commercial service, and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in judgment of the Superintendent.
   (B)   A permit and inspection fee of $15 for residential or commercial
building sewer permit and $25 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the town at the time the application is filed.
(2005 Code, § 53.031) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.032 INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s), with the exception that the town
shall, at its expense, inspect each septic tank which will be connected to the
public sewer prior to connection. The inspection shall be for the purpose of
ensuring that each septic tank connected to the public sewer is structurally
sound and meets all criteria as provided in §
53.017. The owner(s) shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(2005 Code, § 53.032) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.033 SEPARATE SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway. The
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer. The town does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
the single connection aforementioned.
(2005 Code, § 53.033) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.034 CONSTRUCTION DETAILS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to all criteria of §
53.017. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(2005 Code, § 53.034) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.035 ELEVATION AT BUILDING.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In any buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(2005 Code, § 53.035) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.036 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains, sump pumps, basement or yard drains, or other sources
of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer, which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Any connection to a private sewage disposal system which existed prior
to the availability of public sewers shall be removed from the building sewer
prior to connection with the public sewer.
(2005 Code, § 53.036) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.037 CONNECTION OF BUILDING TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All these
connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper
testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(2005 Code, § 53.037) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.038 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative. The applicant shall provide access
to all structures (and areas of structures) to the Superintendent for the
purpose of establishing compliance with §
53.036.
(2005 Code, § 53.038) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.039 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(2005 Code, § 53.039) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
USE OF SEWERS; REMEDIES
§ 53.050 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person(s) shall intentionally, maliciously, willfully, or recklessly
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any
person(s) violating this provision or any criminal statute of the state with
respect to the wastewater facilities may be subject to criminal charge and
arrest under the criminal statutes of this state within the discretion of the
Prosecutor’s Office of the county.
(2005 Code, § 53.050) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.051 UNPOLLUTED DISCHARGES TO SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters
such as storm water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, sump pumps,
basement or yard drain, or cooling water to any sewer, except storm water
runoff from limited areas, which storm water may be polluted at times, may be
discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the Superintendent.
(2005 Code, § 53.051) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.052 STORM SEWERS.
   Storm water other than that exempted under §
53.051, and all other unpolluted drainage, shall be discharged to those sewers
that are specifically designated storm sewers to a natural outlet approved by
the Superintendent and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling
water or process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(2005 Code, § 53.052) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.053 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
   (B)   Any waters containing toxic substances or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, including, but
not limited to, causing the town to violate its NPDES permit(s), constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(2005 Code, § 53.053) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.054 RESTRICTED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or waste shall
be limited, in discharges to municipal systems, to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process, or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established in
the regulations below if in his or her opinion the more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as
the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater
treatment plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater
treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sever which shall not be
violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150ºF (65ºC);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fats,
or grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded as defined in §
53.001. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to the degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for those materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a slug
as defined herein;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases from suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes;
      (11)   Any water or wastes subject to the categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. part 403; or
      (12)   Any water or wastes exceeding the following parameters:
         (a)   BOD5: 225 mg/l; or
         (b)   S.S.: 225 mg/l.
(2005 Code, § 53.054) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.055 DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If any wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
53.054 and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious
effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing sewer charges under the provisions of §§
53.120 through
53.138.
   (B)   When considering the above alternatives, the Superintendent shall give
consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the discharger. If
the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent.
(2005 Code, § 53.055) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.056 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors, separate and distinct from the
septic tank component of the building sewer, shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
§
53.054(B)(3), or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients;
except that these interceptors shall not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by owner’s personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms.
   (B)   The Superintendent may determine whether the suitable septic tank
required as a component of the building sewer will satisfy the requirements for
an interceptor(s).
(2005 Code, § 53.056) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.057 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
(2005 Code, § 53.057) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.058 SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure
together with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. This
structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The
structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(2005 Code, § 53.058) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.059 COMPLIANCE; REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer service to provide
information needed to determine compliance with §§
53.015  through
53.017 ,
53.030  through
53.039 ,
53.050  through
53.062 ,
53.075 , and
53.076 .
   (B)   These requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewers.
(2005 Code, § 53.059) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.060 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS, AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in §§
53.015  through
53.017 ,
53.030  through
53.039 ,
53.050  through
53.062 ,
53.075 , and
53.076  shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater published by the American
Public Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations, and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis, subject to approval by
the Superintendent.
(2005 Code, § 53.060) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.061 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any user
whereby a waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the town
for treatment.
   (B)   Any wastes described in §
53.053(A) and (B) are precluded from these agreements.
(2005 Code, § 53.061) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.062 TEST PROCEDURES.
   All test procedures shall be in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136,
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants.
(2005 Code, § 53.062) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.075 INSPECTORS; POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Supervisor and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with
the provisions of §§
53.015  through
53.017 ,
53.030  through
53.039 ,
53.050  through
53.062 ,
53.075 , and
53.076 .
   (B)   The Supervisor or other duly authorized employee is authorized to
obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. The
industry may withhold information considered confidential. The industry must
establish that the revelation to the public of the information in question
might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company; the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees; and the town shall indemnify the employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such
may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe
conditions as required in §
53.058.
   (D)   The Supervisor and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement, for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(2005 Code, § 53.075) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.076 APPEALS.
   Any person who believes himself or herself aggrieved through the enforcement
of §§
53.015  through
53.017 ,
53.030  through
53.039 ,
53.050  through
53.062 ,
53.075 , and
53.076  has the right to seek administrative relief before the Town Council.
Any decision concerning the sewage system of the Town Council may be appealed
to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2005 Code, § 53.076) (Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-15-1992)
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 53.090 APPLICABILITY; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply within the incorporated limits of the town
and, except as may be otherwise expressly set forth herein, shall apply only to
those dwellings and commercial facilities which are not presently served by or
will not be connected to a sanitary sewerage system. The applicability of this
subchapter to commercial on-site wastewater disposal facilities is expressly
limited to those for which the County Health Department shall have jurisdiction
to issue construction permits.
   (B)   The administration and enforcement of this subchapter is vested in the
County Health Board appointed pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-6, and successor
statutes that may be enacted, the County Health Officer appointed pursuant to
I.C. 16-20-2-16, and successor statutes that may be enacted, and the County
Health Department created and established pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-2 and
successor statutes that may be enacted.
(2005 Code, § 53.090) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.091 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions set forth in this subchapter, together with those
found in Residential Rule 410, Commercial Rule 410, and State Department of
Health Bulletin S.E. 13, shall be used in the application, interpretation, and
enforcement of this subchapter. Each definition shall be deemed to apply
equally to a residential sewage disposal system or commercial on-site
wastewater disposal facility, unless the application of a word, term, or phrase
only to a particular system, facility, or rule is clearly indicated.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL FACILITY. Any structure or place intended for human
occupation, use, or commerce, other than a dwelling, including such facilities
as apartment buildings, campgrounds, churches, commercial establishments,
condominiums, medical facilities, mobile home parks, motels, office buildings,
restaurants, and schools.
      COMMERCIAL ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITY. All equipment and
devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment, and
on-site disposal of wastewater from other than one- or two-family dwellings.
      COMMERCIAL RULE 410. State Department of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-10 et
seq., effective as of the date of this subchapter, as thereafter amended and
supplemented.
      DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department, being an agency of local
government, created and acting pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-20 et
seq., and successor statutes that may be enacted, and its duly authorized
employees and representatives.
      DWELLING. Any house, structure, or place used or intended to be used as a
place of seasonal or permanent human habitation or for sleeping for one or two
families. The term RESIDENCE shall be used interchangeably with the term
DWELLING.
      HEALTH BOARD. The County Board of Health duly constituted and acting
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-20 et seq., and successor statutes that
may be enacted, and its duly authorized representatives.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer duly appointed by the County
Board of Health and acting pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-20 et seq.,
and successor statutes that may be enacted, and his or her duly authorized
representatives.
      OWNER. The holder of fee simple title to a dwelling or commercial
facility or the holder of equitable title thereto in the event that the
contract creating the equitable title confers exclusive possession of and the
obligation to maintain the dwelling or commercial facility, or the agent of
either.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, copartnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society, holding company, trustee, school corporation,
school city, school town, school district, any unit of government or any other
legal entity, or their successors or assigns, or agent of the aforesaid.
      RESIDENTIAL RULE 410. State Department of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 et
seq., effective as of the date of this subchapter, as thereafter amended and
supplemented.
      RESIDENTIAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. All equipment and devices necessary
for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment, and on-site disposal of
sewage from a one- or two-family dwelling.
      SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A sewer or system of sewers which convey sewage
away from the lot on which it originates to a wastewater treatment facility
owned and operated by an incorporated city or town, conservancy district,
regional sewer district, or private utility.
      SEWAGE. All water-carried waste derived from ordinary living processes.
The term WASTEWATER shall be used interchangeably with the term SEWAGE.
(2005 Code, § 53.091) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.092 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this subchapter, the masculine form
shall mean and apply to the feminine, and the singular form shall mean and
apply to the plural.
(2005 Code, § 53.092) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.093 HEALTH HAZARD DECLARED.
   (A)   A failed residential sewage disposal system or failed commercial on-
site wastewater disposal facility is hereby declared to be a health hazard and
nuisance.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, a sewage disposal system or facility
shall be deemed to have failed when:
      (1)   The system refuses to accept sewage at a rate of design
application, thereby interfering with the normal use of plumbing fixtures;
      (2)   Effluent discharge exceeds the absorptive capacity of the soil,
resulting in ponding, seepage, or other discharge of the effluent to the ground
or surface waters; or
      (3)   Effluent is discharged from the system or facility causing
contamination of a potable water supply, groundwater, or surface waters.
   (C)   With respect to a failed sewage disposal system, the Health Board
shall issue orders, pursuant to §
53.101, as it shall deem necessary and appropriate for the abatement of the
resulting health hazard, subject only to the express limitations set forth in
Residential Rule 410.
(2005 Code, § 53.093) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.094 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Health Board, the Health Officer and the duly authorized
representatives of each may enter upon public or private property at reasonable
times and upon presentation of credentials to inspect facilities, equipment, or
records, investigate allegations, determine soil characteristics, conduct
tests, or collect samples for the purpose of obtaining information necessary to
the issuance of a permit pursuant to this subchapter, Residential Rule 410 or
Commercial Rule 410, or to determine whether any person is subject to, or in
violation of, this subchapter, these rules, or any permit or license issued
pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Except in an emergency declared by the Health Officer or Health Board,
due notice of an intent to enter a residential or commercial building shall be
given.
(2005 Code, § 53.094) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.095 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall throw, run, drain, seep, or otherwise dispose into any
of the surface waters or groundwaters of the county, or cause, permit, or
suffer to be thrown, run, drained, allowed to seep, or otherwise disposed into
the waters any organic or inorganic matter from a dwelling or commercial
facility or from a residential sewage disposal system or commercial on-site
wastewater disposal facility, that would cause or contribute to a health hazard
or water pollution.
   (B)   No person shall commence or allow the construction of a dwelling,
placement of a mobile home, or the construction of a commercial facility
without first having obtained a written permit for the construction of a sewage
disposal system.
   (C)   No person shall commence or allow the replacement, reconstruction,
expansion, or remodeling of a residence which may increase the number of
bedrooms without first having obtained a written permit for the addition to,
replacement, or alteration of the existing residential sewage disposal system.
   (D)   No person shall cause or allow a change in occupancy or use of any
facility served by a commercial on-site wastewater disposal facility if the
change would result in wastewater flow on the peak day in excess of the
permitted capacity of the disposal facility, or if it would result in
wastewater being generated of a type incompatible with absorption field
disposal, without first having obtained a construction permit for appropriate
modifications of the subject wastewater disposal facility.
   (E)   No person shall cause or allow the construction of any outbuilding or
the installation of any swimming pool, geothermal heat system, underground
utility connection, or underground lawn sprinkler system in association with an
existing residence or commercial facility, without first obtaining a site
approval permit for the construction.
   (F)   No person shall construct, install, replace, alter, modify, repair, or
add to a residential sewage disposal system, and no owner shall knowingly
suffer or allow any such system to be installed, replaced, altered, modified,
repaired, or added to except in accordance with the duly issued construction
permit, the terms and provisions of Residential Rule 410, and this subchapter.
   (G)   No person shall construct, install, replace, alter, modify, repair, or
add to a commercial on-site wastewater disposal facility, and no owner shall
knowingly suffer or allow any facility to be installed, replaced, altered,
modified, repaired, or added to except in accordance with the duly issued
construction permit, the terms and provisions of Commercial Rule 410 and/or
State Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 13 and this subchapter.
   (H)   No person shall construct, install, or thereafter replace, alter,
modify, or repair a residential sewage disposal system without first having
been issued a license pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
   (I)   No person shall construct, install, or thereafter replace, alter,
modify, or repair a commercial on-site wastewater disposal facility, over which
the County Health Department has jurisdiction for the issuance of a
construction permit, without first having been issued a license pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (J)   No person, having received a written order from the Health Officer or
the Health Board pertaining to a violation of this subchapter or the terms,
provisions, conditions, or limitations of any permit or license issued
hereunder, shall fail or refuse to comply with the terms and provisions of the
order within the time limit specified therein.
(2005 Code, § 53.095) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.096 RESIDENTIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Applications for permits for the construction, installation,
replacement, alteration, repair of, or addition to a residential sewage
disposal system shall be submitted by the owner or agent of the owner upon
forms provided by the Department, shall contain the information that is
required by Residential Rule 410 and/or deemed necessary by the Health Officer,
and shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee payable to the Department, as
the fee may be established from time to time by the town.
   (B)   Construction permits for residential sewage disposal systems shall be
issued by the Health Officer only upon a determination that the proposed
system, or the alteration, repair of, or addition to an existing system
complies with the requirements, terms, and provisions of Residential Rule 410,
this subchapter and the following.
      (1)   The terms and provisions of Residential Rule 410 and State
Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 11 to the contrary, notwithstanding, permits
for the construction or installation of permanent privies, to include sanitary
vault privies, shall not be issued.
      (2)   The terms and provisions of Residential Rule 410 to the contrary,
notwithstanding, no septic tank having a capacity of fewer than 1,000 gallons,
and no soil absorption system containing less than 400 lineal feet of pipe
shall be installed.
      (3)   The Health Officer may specify in the construction permit any
limitation, term, or condition necessary to provide a functional, easily
operated, enduring residential sewage disposal system in accordance with
Residential Rule 410, or to prevent a health hazard, nuisance, surface water
pollution, or groundwater pollution.
      (4)   Subsurface gravity-feed residential sewage disposal systems for
duplex dwellings shall be separate for each dwelling unit. For design systems,
the absorption area shall be computed using the following formula for area:
150g x 1 + no. of bedrooms and bedroom equivalents
loading rate in gpd/square foot
      (5)   A construction permit shall expire on the last day of the thirty-
sixth month following the month of permit issuance, unless the applicant has
commenced the activity for which the permit was issued on or before the date of
permit expiration; provided, a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall
be deemed amended and supplemented to include the terms, conditions, and
requirements of this subchapter and any amendments thereof, effective as of the
date of commencement of the activity.
   (C)   Site approval permits for the construction of any outbuilding or the
installation of any swimming pool, geothermal heat system, underground utility
connection, or underground lawn sprinkler system shall be issued upon:
      (1)   Proper application of the owner or the agent of the owner on forms
furnished by the Department;
      (2)   The payment of the fee established by the Town Council, from time
to time; and
      (3)   A determination by the Health Officer that the proposed location of
the construction or installation conforms with Residential Rule 410, and shall
not damage the residential sewage disposal system or interfere with its proper
operation.
(2005 Code, § 53.096) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.097 COMMERCIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Applications for permits for the construction, installation,
replacement, alteration, repair of, or addition to a commercial on-site
wastewater disposal facility shall be upon forms provided by the State
Department of Health, and shall be submitted to the State Department as
permitted and required by Commercial Rule 410. In the event that the State
Department of Health shall determine that the County Health Department shall
have jurisdiction over the review of the application and the issuance of a
construction permit, the owner or agent of the owner will be advised by letter.
   (B)   (1)   Construction permits for commercial on-site wastewater disposal
facilities over which the Department has jurisdiction shall be issued in
accordance with this subchapter, Commercial Rule 410, and State Department of
Health Bulletin S.E. 13.
      (2)   References in that rule and bulletin to the Board or State Board of
Health shall be interpreted to mean the County Board of Health, and references
therein to the Commissioner shall be interpreted to mean the County Health
Officer.
(2005 Code, § 53.097) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.098 PERMIT DENIAL.
   (A)   (1)   An application for a construction permit for a residential
sewage disposal system may be denied by the Health Officer for the following
causes:
         (a)   Any misrepresentation made in the application;
         (b)   Failure of the owner or the agent of the owner to respond to a
request for information from the Health Officer within 30 days of receiving the
request; or
         (c)   Failure to show that the residential sewage disposal system can
be constructed, operated, maintained, or abandoned in compliance with
Residential Rule 410.
      (2)   A permit shall be denied by the Health Officer if the proposed
location of the sewage disposal system is located within 300 feet of the
municipal sanitary sewerage system of the town and connection to that system is
permitted by the town.
   (B)   If a permit is denied by the Health Officer, the applicant shall be
given notice in writing, which notice shall set forth the basis for denial and
the fact that a petition for review may be filed in accordance with §
53.102.
   (C)   Denial of a permit for the construction of a commercial on-site
wastewater disposal facility shall be as permitted by Commercial Rule 410.
(2005 Code, § 53.098) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.099 PERMIT REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION.
   (A)   A construction permit for a residential sewage disposal system may be
revoked or modified by the Health Board for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Violation of Residential Rule 410 or this subchapter;
      (2)   Violation of any limitation, term, or condition contained in the
construction permit; or
      (3)   Failure to disclose all facts relevant to the construction and use
of the disposal system, or any misrepresentation contained in the application
for a construction permit.
   (B)   If a permit is modified or revoked by the Health Board, the permittee
shall be given notice in writing, which notice shall set forth the basis for
the modification or revocation and the fact that a petition for review may be
filed in accordance with §
53.102.
   (C)   A construction permit for a commercial on-site wastewater disposal
system may be revoked or modified by the Health Board for a violation of this
subchapter or as otherwise permitted by Commercial Rule 410.
(2005 Code, § 53.099) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.100 LICENSES.
   (A)   Applications for a license to construct, install, replace, alter,
modify, or repair a residential sewage disposal system or commercial on-site
wastewater disposal facility shall be submitted upon forms provided by the
Department and shall be accompanied by the fee established by the Town Council,
from time to time. The application shall disclose the type of license
requested, namely, residential, commercial, or combination.
   (B)   (1)   No license shall be issued by the Department unless the
applicant has demonstrated a working knowledge of the laws, rules, and
regulations pertaining to the type of system for which a license is to be
issued, namely:
         (a)   Residential Rule 410 and this subchapter for a residential
license;
         (b)   Commercial Rule 410, State Department of Health Bulletin S.E.
13, and this subchapter for a commercial license; or
         (c)   Residential Rule 410, Commercial Rule 410, Bulletin S.E. 13 and
this subchapter for a combination license.
      (2)   Minimum required knowledge shall be demonstrated by a score of at
least 82% on a standardized written proficiency examination to be administered
by the Department; provided, that in the event that the reading or language
skills of the applicant would preclude the use of a written examination, an
oral exam may be given by the Department; and provided further, that if the
applicant is not a natural person, the examination shall be administered to a
designated representative who shall be an officer, partner, official, or
employee of the applicant.
   (C)   The following terms and conditions shall apply to a license and the
issuance thereof under this section:
      (1)   A license shall expire on the anniversary of its issuance;
      (2)   If a license is continually renewed, re-examination shall not be
required;
      (3)   Opportunity for re-examination shall be afforded persons failing to
pass the license exam, but no more frequently than once every 30 days;
      (4)   The standardized examination may be revised by the Department, from
time to time, and more than one comparable version may be administered;
      (5)   A list of those persons holding a valid license under this section
may be made available to the public; and
      (6)   A licensee may be required by the Health Officer to attend one
educational class or program annually pertaining to sewage disposal to be
conducted by the Department or the State Department of Health.
   (D)   A license issued under this section may be suspended or revoked if the
licensee shall be found by the Health Officer to have committed any act
prohibited by §
53.095, any act that might result in the denial or revocation of a construction
permit issued hereunder, or violated any term or provision of this subchapter,
to include Residential Rule 410, Commercial Rule 410 and State Department of
Health Bulletin S.E. 13, pertaining to the system or facility for which the
license was issued. Notice of suspension or revocation shall be in writing,
shall specify the acts or violations committed, and shall be served upon the
licensee as permitted by §
53.101.
(2005 Code, § 53.100) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.101 ORDERS OF HEALTH OFFICER AND BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating this subchapter to include the
terms, conditions, provisions, and limitations of any permit or license issued
hereunder, may be served by the Health Officer with a written notice and order
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof.
      (2)   A written notice and order under this section shall be served upon
the person to whom directed by personal delivery, certified mail, or otherwise
as a summons may be served under the State Rules of Civil Procedure, being I.C.
34-8-1 et seq.
   (B)   Any person failing to comply with the written order of the Health
Officer or the Health Board issued under this section shall, by the failure,
violate §
53.095(J), which violation shall be separate from, and in addition to, any
violation giving rise to or prompting the issuance of the written order.
(2005 Code, § 53.101) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.102 PETITION FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by either of the following actions may file
a petition for review with the Health Board:
         (a)   Within 30 days following the date of receipt of an issued
permit, notice of permit denial, notice of permit modification, or notice of
permit revocation pertaining to a residential sewage disposal system; issuance
or denial of a site approval permit; or issuance, denial, or revocation of a
license; or
         (b)   Within 15 days of the receipt of an order of the Health Officer
or Health Board issued pursuant to §
53.101.
      (2)   A petition for review shall:
         (a)   State the name and address of the person making the request
(petitioner);
         (b)   Identify the interest of the petitioner which is affected by the
action complained of;
         (c)   Identify any persons whom the petitioner represents;
         (d)   State with particularity the reason(s) for the request; and
         (e)   Set forth the relief requested.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a timely petition for review, the Health Board shall,
at its next scheduled regular meeting, or at an earlier special meeting to be
called, conduct a hearing into the matters addressed by the petition and shall
take such action thereon, if any, as it shall deem necessary and appropriate.
Upon the mutual agreement of the petitioner and the Health Board, the hearing
may be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in I.C. 4-21.5 et
seq., and successor statutes that may be enacted, being the Administrative
Procedure and Orders Act.
   (C)   A petition for review with respect to an issued permit, permit
modification, notice of permit denial, or notice of permit revocation for a
commercial on-site wastewater disposal facility shall be in accordance with
Commercial Rule 410.
(2005 Code, § 53.102) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.103 ENFORCEMENT
   (A)   Enforcement of this subchapter as against a person violating the terms
and provisions of same shall be in accordance with the provisions of applicable
state law. An action to enforce this subchapter shall be brought in the name of
the Health Officer or the Health Board, as appropriate, and upon proof by a
preponderance of the evidence of a violation hereof, judgment shall be entered
against the defendant for a sum of not less than $100 for each violation. A
separate violation of this subchapter shall be deemed to occur for each day
that a person shall be in violation of the terms and provisions hereof. No
action under this section shall be commenced, however, with respect to a
violation for which a petition for review is pending under §
53.102.
   (B)   In addition to the remedy set forth in division (A) above, an action
may be brought for mandatory or injunctive relief as against any person
violating the terms and provisions of this subchapter, which action shall be
brought in the name of the Health Officer or Health Board, as appropriate, but
only after notice of violation has been given as permitted by §
53.101. Except in an emergency expressly declared by the Health Board, no
action under this section shall be commenced with respect to a violation for
which a petition for review is pending under §
53.102.
   (C)   To the extent permitted by law and this subchapter, an action under
division (A) above may be joined with an action under division (B) above, and
to any judgment in favor of the Health Officer and/or Health Board shall be
added costs of the action, reasonable attorney fees and expenses incurred by
the Department in the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (D)   In all actions under this section, the Health Board and/or the Health
Officer shall be represented by the attorney retained by the Health Board
pursuant to I.C. 16-20-1-26 and successor statutes that may be enacted.
(2005 Code, § 53.103) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 53.104 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Unless and until State Board of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 is
amended to include an express provision pertaining to the proper abandonment of
septic tanks, holding tanks, drywells, or sanitary vault privies, any owner who
shall discontinue use of a septic tank, holding tank, drywell, or sanitary
vault privy shall cause same to be pumped by a licensed septic tank hauler and
shall either remove the structure from the ground, or open and fill same with
sand or clean fill in a manner approved by the Health Officer.
   (B)   (1)   State Board of Health Rules 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 and 410 I.A.C. 6-
10, together with Bulletin S.E. 13, as each rule and bulletin may be amended
and supplemented from time to time, are incorporated herein by reference and
made a part of this subchapter.
      (2)   To the extent that these rules may be found to be inconsistent with
one another or with Bulletin S.E. 13, Rule I.A.C. 6-8.1 shall be deemed to
apply only to residential sewage disposal systems and Rule I.A.C. 6-10 and
Bulletin S.E. 13 only to commercial on-site wastewater disposal facilities.
      (3)   Any inconsistency between the rules and bulletin and this
subchapter shall be resolved against this subchapter unless the inconsistent
provision hereof is more restrictive than the provision of the rules or
bulletin.
(2005 Code, § 53.104) (Ord. 98-04, passed 2-17-1998)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The same meaning as defined in the sewer
use ordinance.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial enterprise,
business, or service which, based on a determination by the town, discharges
primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the town, or any duly authorized officials
acting on its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   GEORGETOWN SERVICE AREA. The area coterminous with the corporate limits of
the town.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user of the
wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that discharges
industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social, charitable,
religious, and/or educational function which, based on a determination by the
town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
   NH3 or AMMONIA. The same meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges shall mean wastewater or
sewage having an average daily concentration as follows: BOD not more than 225
mg/l, and S.S. not more than 225 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences, as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. The same
meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state, and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
   P or PHOSPHORUS. The same meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or building
is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including all
dwelling units, and the like.
   SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
§§
53.001,
53.015 through
53.017,
53.030 through
53.039,
53.050 through
53.062,
53.075, and
53.076, which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   S.S. or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The same meaning as defined in the sewer use
ordinance.
   TOWN. The Town of Georgetown acting by and through the Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of those works pursuant to § 204(b) of
Pub. L. No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (such
as, residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system).
      (1)   Commercial user. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   Governmental user. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   Industrial user. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      (4)   Institutional user. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   Residential user. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
(2005 Code, § 53.120) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.121 ESTABLISHMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Every person whose premises are served by the sewage works shall
be charged for the services provided.
      (2)   These charges are established for each user class, as defined, in
order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user and user class,
revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works in terms of
volume and load.
      (3)   User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works.
   (B)   User charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
      (1)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected
service life of the sewage works equipment.
      (2)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the
purposes of this subchapter shall be as follows: Class I: 1. Commercial; 2.
Governmental; 3. Industrial; 4. Institutional; and 5. Residential.
(2005 Code, § 53.121) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.122 USER DEFINED; TOWN CHARGES; MONITORING COSTS.
   (A)   A USER shall be defined as any building which discharges any
wastewater into the town’s sewer system. In the event any user consists of more
than one dwelling unit, defined as a business or residential unit having a room
or rooms or other living space or spaces in which cooking facilities or
facilities which emit wastewater are provided, a monthly multiple user fee
shall be charged per dwelling unit for that user, as determined by Council from
time to time.
   (B)   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges hereinabove provided, or to charges and rates
established in harmony therewith.
   (C)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the town
shall charge the user the actual cost of monitoring but not less than $25 per
sample. This charge will be reviewed and revised on the same basis as all other
rates and charges in this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 53.122) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.123 RESERVED.
§ 53.124 UNMETERED WATER USERS.
    For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users, or where
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined as an average of single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month). The schedule on which the rates and charges shall be
determined is as determined by Council from time to time, and are hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
(2005 Code, § 53.124) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.125 MEASUREMENT OF WATER USED; ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in a manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and the
sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates, except as is
hereinafter provided in this section. The town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that those
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewerage system.
   (B)   (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into
the town sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly; is not a user
of water supplied by the water utility serving the town; and the water used
thereon or therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water
meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or
charge provided in this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall,
at his or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring
devices, or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the
town for determining of sewage discharge.
      (2)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids in the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly; is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town; and, in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his, her, or their
expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
      (3)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 10,000 gallons per month; and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
      (4)   There shall be a separate water meter for each dwelling unit which
discharges sanitary sewage, water, or other liquids into the town’s sanitary
sewage, either directly or indirectly. DWELLING UNITS include mobile homes,
apartments, housekeeping rooms, or any other spaces in which cooking facilities
are provided. Billing for each meter shall be separate for each water meter and
shall be in the manner set out elsewhere herein.
(2005 Code, § 53.125) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992; Ord. G-01-03, passed 8-
29-2001)
§ 53.126 BASIS OF CHARGES.
   In order that the rates and charges may reflect the costs of providing
service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not only on the
volume, but also the strength and character of the stronger-than-normal
domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of. The
town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all sewage
and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewage
system, in a manner and by a method as the town may deem practicable in order
to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central sampling point
available to the town at all times.
(2005 Code, § 53.126) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.127 RATE SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 225 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended solids in
excess of 225 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating
stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.20 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 225 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.20 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
225 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (B)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as
written by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance with
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, Regulation
40 C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973.
(2005 Code, § 53.127) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.128 CAPACITY FEES.
   (A)   New customers considered in-town (property inside the town’s corporate
limits) who are connecting to the town’s wastewater/sewer collection system
shall pay a sewer service capacity fee in the amount of $7,140 per equivalent
density unity (EDU). New customers considered out-of-town (property outside the
town’s corporate limits) who are connecting to the town’s wastewater/sewer
collection system shall pay a sewer service capacity fee in the amount of
$7,140 per equivalent density unity (EDU). One EDU equates to 310 gallons of
wastewater per day. This fee shall be in effect for calendar year 2018.
   (B)   New customers which are an apartment unit sized at one or two bedroom
(s) and are in-town (property inside the town's corporate limits) or out-of-
town (property outside of the town's corporate limit) who are connecting to the
town's waste water/sewer collection system shall pay a sewer service capacity
fee in the amount of $4,430. New customers which are an apartment unit sized at
three bedrooms and are in-town (property inside the town's corporate limits) or
out-of-town (property outside of the town's corporate limit) who are connecting
to the town's wastewater/sewer collection system shall pay a sewer service
capacity fee in the amount of $6,650.
   (C)   All sewer service capacity fees shall be deposited into the Wastewater
Utility Improvement Fund.
(2005 Code, § 53.128) (Ord. G-18-04, passed 2-20-2018; Ord. G-20-06, passed 11-
24-2020; Ord. G-21-03, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 53.129 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   Rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the town in
the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly, and at the end of each year each user shall be given notice, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rates charged for operation,
maintenance, and replacement for that user for the next year.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
the billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by the tenant or tenants, provided that this examination shall
be made at the office at which the records are kept and during the hours that
the office is open for business.
   (C)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto.
   (D)   The Town Council hereby sets a new date/deadline for the payment of
sewer bills for the 28th day of each month by 4:00 p.m. Should said date fall
on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, the deadline for payment of sewer bills
shall be extended to 4:00 p.m. on the next business day.
(2005 Code, § 53.129) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992; Ord. G-18-06, passed 4-
16-2018)
§ 53.130 PERIODIC REVIEW.
   On a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time following the normal
accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to be made for the
purpose of reviewing the fairness, equity, and proportionality of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. These studies shall be
conducted by: officers or employees of the town; a firm of certified public
accountants; a firm of consulting engineers, which firms shall have experience
in these studies; or a combination of officers, employees, certified public
accountants, or engineers as the town shall determine to be best under the
circumstances. The town shall, upon completion of the study, revise and adjust
the rates and charges as necessary in accordance therewith, in order to
maintain the proportionality and sufficiency of the rates.
(2005 Code, § 53.130) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.131 BYLAWS.
   The town shall make and enforce bylaws and regulations as may be deemed
necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the town’s
sewerage system, pumping stations, and sewage conveyance system, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage system,
and for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of these rates and
charges.
(2005 Code, § 53.131) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.132 DUMPING OF WASTE PROHIBITED.
   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town’s
sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation of
the sewage treatment works of the town or to require methods affecting
pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
town.
(2005 Code, § 53.132) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.133 APPEALS.
    The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval of the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Administrator of the
user charge to the Town Council, and that any decision concerning user charges
of the Town Council may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction under
the appeal procedures provided for in the State Administrative Procedure and
Orders Act, being I.C. 4-21.5 and successor statutes that may be enacted.
(2005 Code, § 53.133) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.134 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to
the sewage works can be determined, and the rate shall be limited to the costs.
The contract shall be in compliance with Pub. L. Nos. 92-500 and 95-217, being
33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and 1281 et seq.
(2005 Code, § 53.134) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.135 DEPOSITS; REFUNDS.
   (A)   Deposit. All new customers of the town’s sewage works shall be
required to make a reasonable cash deposit in the amount of $100, in order to
obtain service.
   (B)   Refunds. Upon proper notification from the depositor, deposits shall
be refunded promptly along with a statement accounting for each transaction
involving the deposits. Proper notification from the depositor shall be as
follows:
      (1)   A notarized statement from the depositor stating that as of a
certain identified date, the property being served has been conveyed or
transferred to another person. This statement must include the name and address
of the person to whom the property is conveyed or transferred. The depositor
forfeits the deposit in the event the depositor fails to satisfy costs and fees
within 60 days after the termination of his or her ownership of the property
served, and the forfeited amount shall be applied to the depositor’s
outstanding fees; or
      (2)   A notarized statement from the depositor stating that as of a
certain identified date, the property being served no longer uses or is
connected with any part of the town’s wastewater (sewage) works.
(2005 Code, § 53.135) (Ord. G-01-03, passed 8-29-2001; Ord. G-04-26, passed 7-
15-2004)
§ 53.136 CONSTRUCTION FEE.
   (A)   All new connections to the wastewater utility system must pay for the
extension(s) from the existing sewer mains to the location the new customer
wants to use as his or her sewer connection. This extension shall be performed
by town utilities employees or town-hired contractors, and the responsibility
for routine maintenance of these extended lines is the town’s, once the
extensions are in place. All sewerage pipes/lines running from the customer’s
house/building to the sewer connection are the responsibility of the customer,
for both installation and on-going maintenance. The construction fee shall be
$200 or the actual costs incurred by the wastewater utility, whichever is
greater.
   (B)   This construction fee shall be deposited into the town’s Wastewater
Utility Operations Fund #606.
(2005 Code, § 53.136) (Ord. G-04-45, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 53.137 BUILDER LANDSCAPING RELIEF.
   (A)   The owner of any new construction, residential single-family home
shall be entitled to a sewer relief credit for water usage that exceeds 1,000
gallons per month.
   (B)   This credit shall be available until such home is occupied, and the
owner who receives credit shall notify the town’s utilities in writing within
three business days after the earlier of: the transfer, sale, lease, or license
of the home to an occupant; or the date such home is occupied.
   (C)   If the owner receiving credit fails to timely notify the town’s
utilities of such occupancy, the town shall recover from the credited owner,
the entire amount of any relief credit received on the customer’s bill
(“recovered credits”) for the home.
   (D)   The town shall not issue any building permit or certificate of
occupancy to an owner receiving credit, if such owner has any unpaid recovered
credits or any delinquent sewer bill.
(Ord. G-10-17, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 53.138 SANITARY SEWER REVIEW FEE.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes a sanitary sewer review fee for
sanitary sewer review performed by the Town Engineer for those developments
located outside the town limits or those within the town limits that do not
require a full site plan review as follows:
      (1)   Residential developments.
         (a)   For sanitary sewer review of a plan involving less than 50 lots,
a plan review fee of $1,250 shall apply.
         (b)   For a sanitary sewer review of a plan involving 50 or more lots,
a plan review fee of $1,750 shall apply.
      (2)   Commercial developments.
         (a)   For a sanitary sewer review of a plan involving less than five
acres, a plan review fee of $1,350 shall apply.
         (b)   For a sanitary sewer review of a plan involving five acres or
more, a plan review fee of $1,850 shall apply.
   (B)   The sanitary sewer review fee hereby established shall be collected by
the Clerk-Treasurer and deposited in the town’s General Fund or any other
appropriate fund.
   (C)   All ordinances of the town which are in conflict with this section are
hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict and any ordinance not in
conflict with this section shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. G-16-04, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 53.139 DISCONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   The sewage utility, under I.C. 36-9-23-6, may request the
discontinuance of water service for the non-payment of sewage utility billings.
The town has entered a contract with the provider of water service to
discontinue water service at the request of the town for non-payment of sewage
utility fees. An administrative charge for such disconnection, in the amount of
$60, is payable by the town to the water service provider for each customer
disconnected at the town's request.
   (B)   The town shall notify the provider of water service of delinquent
accounts where the town is requesting shut off of water service. The notices,
actions and any other procedure required for the discontinuance of water
service shall be those procedures adopted by the provider of the water service
for shut off of water service.
   (C)   A charge of $60 will be made for all services where water is
disconnected and reconnected for nonpayment of sewage bills.
(Ord. G-18-11, passed 12-17-2018)
MISCELLANEOUS; ADMINISTRATION
§ 53.150 NO FREE SERVICE; NON-ANNEXED PROPERTY.
   The Council shall not grant free service or use of the sewage treatment
system to any person, group, or entity. It is not necessary for an area or
parcel of real estate to be annexed to the town to receive sewage treatment.
(2005 Code, § 53.150) (Ord. G-92-03, passed 6-15-1992)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
53.002 or fails to correct the discharge beyond the time limit provided in the
notice provided in §
53.002(B), shall be fined not more than $100 for each violation. Each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense. Any owner or occupant violating
these sections shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the town by reason of the violation.
   (C)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
53.015 through
53.017,
53.030 through
53.039,
53.051 through
53.062,
53.075, and
53.076 shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)    Any person who shall continue any violation (other than a
violation of §
53.051) beyond the time limit provided for in division (C)(1) above shall be
fined in an amount not less than $25 and not exceeding $500 for each violation.
Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
53.015 through
53.017,
53.030 through
53.039,
53.051 through
53.062,
53.075, and
53.076 shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage
incurred by the town by reason of the violation.
      (4)   (a)   Any person violating or suspected of violating §
53.051 shall be subjected to a penalty of $50 per month (or fraction thereof in
which the violation occurs).
         (b)   A person may avoid payment of the penalty by consenting to an
inspection described in §
53.038 for the purpose of establishing compliance with §
53.051.
         (c)   A person consenting to this inspection and found in violation
shall be given 90 days to comply with §
53.051 without being subject to penalty.
(2005 Code, § 53.999) (Ord. G-89-01, passed 7-10-1989; Ord. G-92-04, passed 6-
15-1992; Ord. G-92-05, passed 6-15-1992; Ord. G-94-, passed 7-11-1994)
CHAPTER 54: INTERNET SERVICES
Section
   
54.01   Authorization
   
54.02   Broadband refunds
   
54.03   Broadband rates
§ 54.01 AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The town’s Municipal Works Board, for and on behalf of the town, is
hereby authorized to make capital improvements, acquire equipment and
facilities necessary to provide internet protocol enabled services including
broadband services to customers interested in receiving such service.
   (B)   The town’s Municipal Works Board is authorized to engage consultants
and legal counsel and to take any and all actions necessary to provide internet
protocol enabled services including broadband services in the town and anywhere
within the county and Harrison County, Indiana or elsewhere permitted by law.
(Ord. G-09-08, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 54.02 BROADBAND REFUNDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to refund any monies which have
been received by the town as broadband install, initial monthly, and deposit
fees from the town’s Broadband Utility Fund #140, returning said monies back to
the would-have-been broadband customer, if it has been determined that the
town’s current signal output cannot reach his or her location. This
authorization precludes the need to wait for a docket listing on these refunds
(Ord. G-07-11, passed 3-15-2007)
§ 54.03 BROADBAND RATES.
   The Council hereby adopts the rates for broadband services as set forth in
the motion brought before the Council meeting of November 28, 2006, regarding
broadband installation and monthly fees.
(Ord. G-08-26, passed 11-18-2008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Vehicle weight limitations; exceptions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITATIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle using any street in town shall weigh more than two and one-
half tons, which weight shall include both that of the vehicle and its load,
excepting therefrom those vehicles cited below in division (B).
(2005 Code, § 70.01)
   (B)   Any school bus, delivery truck, or moving van which is being used in
its normal mode of operation for the public or private use for which it is
designed may exceed two and one-half tons in weight, which weight shall include
both that of the vehicle and its load.
(2005 Code, § 70.02)
(Ord. G-79-02, passed 11-12-1979) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this title for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who operates a vehicle
in violation of §
70.01 shall, in addition to the fine, also be subject to the cost of repairing
the damaged portion of the street.
(2005 Code, § 70.99) (Ord. G-79-02, passed 11-12-1979)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Disabled parking
   
71.02   Parallel parking
   
71.03   Distance from intersection
   
71.04   Distance from a public utility facility
   
71.05   Town Hall parking lot
   71.06   Overnight parking on town property
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   The Town Council deems it necessary to designate disabled parking
areas in the town to accommodate one or more residents.
   (B)   These areas are to be determined by the Street Superintendent and
marked accordingly.
(2005 Code, § 71.01) (Ord. G-95-01, passed 1-17-1995)
§ 71.02 PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an operator of a motor vehicle or animal-
driven carriage to park the same other than parallel with the edge of the road
and with the right wheels not less than 12 inches off the right edge of the
road.
   (B)   In other words, vehicles shall be parked with the flow of traffic.
(2005 Code, § 71.02) (Ord. G-94-15, passed 7-18-1994) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 DISTANCE FROM INTERSECTION.
   No parking shall be permitted within 30 feet of any intersection.
(2005 Code, § 71.03) (Ord. G-94-15, passed 7-18-1994) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 DISTANCE FROM A PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY.
   No parking on any street, access road, path, or public parking lot shall be
permitted within 20 feet of any public utility facility, to include, but not be
limited to, a fire hydrant, fire station, lift station, booster station,
pressure relief valve, water main valve, water meter pit, drainage catch basin,
and the like.
(2005 Code, § 71.04) (Ord. G-06-02, passed 1-19-2006) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 TOWN HALL PARKING LOT.
   (A)   Any person having business with the town is permitted to park his or
her motor vehicle in the town’s parking lot which is located next to the Town
Hall.
   (B)   Any person who does not have business with the town is not permitted
to park his or her motor vehicle in the town’s parking lot.
   (C)   Any motor vehicle which is parked in the town’s parking lot in
violation of this section shall be towed at the expense of the owner of the
motor vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 71.05) (Ord. G-96-03, passed 2-21-1996) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 OVERNIGHT PARKING ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Town of Georgetown hereby establishes this section to regulate
overnight parking on town property.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked, stopped, abandoned, or otherwise left on
town property, including but not limited to the two town owned parking lots
near Town Hall (adjacent to and across the street from Town Hall at 9111 State
Road 64) and town owned parks, from after 11:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m.
   (C)   The provisions of all other town ordinances in conflict with the
provisions hereof, if any, are no further force or effect and are hereby
repealed.
   (D)   This section shall be enforced by the Georgetown Police Department.
(Ord. G-21-09, passed 9-20-2021)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
71.02 through
71.05 shall be fined a sum not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each
offense.
(2005 Code, § 71.99)
   (C)   In the event of an emergency, as determined by the Town Marshal or his
or her duly appointed representative, a vehicle parked in a “No Parking” area
may be towed, at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. G-94-15, passed 7-18-1994; Ord. G-06-02, passed 1-19-2006)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   One-way streets
      
III.   Construction traffic
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street/Location                                Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
All major carriers within town, including
Georgetown-Greenville Road, Kepley Road,       30 mph      G-03-31  11-1-2003
Henriott Road, Canal Lane, and Georgetown-
Lanesville Road
All other roads                                20 mph      G-03-31  11-1-2003
All alleyways                                  10 mph      G-03-31  11-1-2003
School zones within the corporate limits,
being the area in the immediate vicinity of
Georgetown Elementary School on State Road 64, 25 mph      G-94-05  5-16-1994
and the intersection of Kepley Road and High
Street
 
(2005 Code, Chapter 72, Schd. I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Street       Direction                                     Ord. No. Date Passed
Ferber Lane  North from State Road 64 to High Street       G-03-31  11-1-2003
Kelly Avenue North from State Road 64 to High Street       G-03-31  11-1-2003
             North from State Road 64 to High Street; the
Martin Drive remaining portion of Martin Drive within town G-79-01  11-12-1979
             limits remains two-way
Roy Street   South from High Street to State Road 64       G-03-31  11-1-2003
Sara Lane    South from Short Street to State Road 64      G-03-31  11-1-2003
 
(2005 Code, Chapter 72, Schd. II) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. CONSTRUCTION TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Travel on Oakstone Way. The office of the Town Marshal is hereby
authorized and directed to monitor traffic on Oakstone Way in the Brookstone
Subdivision. Any construction traffic operating on Oakstone Way may be cited
and fined in accordance with division (C) below.
   (B)   Construction traffic defined. CONSTRUCTION TRAFFIC is defined as any
vehicle being operated by a contractor, sub-contractor, or an employee of
either, working in the Brookstone Subdivision to build, construct, or install
facilities and equipment incidental to the construction of a single-family
residence.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision
of this schedule shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding
$100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. G-06-08, passed 2-16-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10) and
successor statutes that may be enacted
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking restricted and/or prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTED AND/OR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Parking restricted. North side of High Street; said portions of High
Street affected being those areas only between Georgetown-Greenville Road and
Kepley Road within the town limits.
(2005 Code, Chapter 73, Schd. I)
   (B)   Parking prohibited. With the exception of parking allowed on one side
High and Walnut streets, from Georgetown-Greenville Road to Kepley Road, as
identified in division (A) above, no on-street parking is allowed on any public
street in the town.
(2005 Code, Chapter 73, Schd. II)
   (C)   Penalty. 
      (1)   The penalty for violation of this schedule shall be a local
citation and fine in the amount of $25 payable to the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate violation.
      (2)   Fifty percent of all fines collected shall be deposited into the
town’s Motor Vehicle Highway Fund #201 and the remaining 50% shall be deposited
into the town’s Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund #233.
(Ord. G-06-11, passed 4-20-2006)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; ENVIRONMENT
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Permitting animals to run at large
   
90.03   Authority to kill animals
   
90.04   Interference with enforcement prohibited
   
90.05   Exhibitions or parades of animals
   
90.06   Animals as prizes or inducements
   
90.07   Animals which are a public nuisance
   
90.08   Cruel treatment or neglect of animals prohibited
   
90.09   Animal fighting and exhibition fighting prohibited
   
90.10   Provision of necessities
   
90.11   Restraint, restraint by tether and collar specifications
   
90.12   Sexual acts with animals
   
90.13   Abandonment
   
90.14   Keeping animals’ places of habitation clean
   
90.15   Animals afflicted with contagious disease
   
90.16   Rabies quarantine of animals
   
90.17   Allowing animal to remain in parked vehicle
   
90.18   Spay/neuter program established at Animal Shelter
Animal Registration and Rabies Vaccination
   
90.25   Cats to be registered and licensed
   
90.26   Exotic animals to be registered
   
90.27   Dogs, cats and ferrets over three months to be inoculated
Impoundment
   
90.35   Impoundment authorized
   
90.36   Removal of animal in immediate danger
   
90.37   Animal shelter to record data on impounded animals
   
90.38   Impounding fee; bond
   
90.39   Redemption of impounded animal
   
90.40   Euthanasia and disposal of privately owned animals
Dangerous Animals
   
90.50   Dangerous animals
   
90.51   Duty of owners of dangerous animals
Enforcement Procedures
   
90.60   Enforcement
   
90.61   Powers of animal control officers
   
90.62   Custodial liability
   
90.63   Destruction of impounded animals
   
90.64   Powers of the Animal Control Authority
   
90.65   Meetings with Animal Control Authority
   
90.66   Resolution and settlements
   
90.67   Judicial enforcement
Fee Schedule
   
90.75   Fee schedule
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. To deposit, leave, drop off or otherwise dispose of an owned
animal on any public or private property, or leaving an animal for a period in
excess of 24 hours, without the animal's owner or caretaker providing all
provisions of necessity as defined in this chapter and checking on the animal's
condition.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any domestic animal that has been surgically sterilized to
prevent procreation.
   ANIMAL. Any living vertebrate, domestic or wild, except a human being.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The New Albany/Floyd County Animal Control
Authority and its governing board established by an interlocal cooperation
agreement between the County of Floyd and the City of New Albany on May 20,
1999, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-7 et seq. for the operation of
the New Albany/Floyd County Animal Control and Shelter, which interlocal
agreement is ratified, affirmed and incorporated herein by reference.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the Floyd County Animal
Control Authority to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter; or any
law enforcement officer of the State of Indiana.
   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA AND ACTIVITIES. Equipment, and/or items used
to train or condition animals for participation in animal fighting activity or
materials which promote animal fighting; the breeding of animals for the
express purpose of fighting; the training of animals for fighting; the tracking
of animal fighting results; or the production of materials promoting or
supporting betting or gambling on animal fighting.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The New Albany/Floyd County Animal Control and Shelter.
   APPROVED RABIES VACCINE. Any vaccine for protecting an animal from
contracting rabies approved as effective by the Indiana State Board of Animal
Health (BOAH) and by the National Association of State Public Health
Veterinarians, Inc. (NASPHV) in the most current version of the Compendium of
Animal Rabies Prevention and Control.
   ATTACK. Any aggressive contact with a human being or another animal that
could result in injury or death.
   BITE. Any injury caused by the tearing, puncturing or cutting of the skin
caused by teeth or fangs.
   CARETAKER. A person designated to take temporary charge of animals and/or
property of an owner.
   CAT. Any domestic feline.
   CRUELTY. Any act prohibited by §§
90.08 through
90.14 and
90.17.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal which, unprovoked, commits an attack upon,
harms or kills a person or another animal. A DANGEROUS ANIMAL shall also
include any mammal for which there is no approved rabies vaccine.
   DOG. Any domestic canine.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose physiology has been determined and/or
manipulated through selective breeding; any of various animals that have been
tamed and made fit for a human environment; any mammal, whether or not its
physiology has been determined or manipulated through selective breeding, which
can be vaccinated against rabies with an approved rabies vaccine. DOMESTIC
ANIMALS shall include, but not be limited to, dogs, cats, birds, rabbits,
guinea pigs, rats, mice, hamsters, gerbils, ferrets, chinchillas, fish,
reptiles, livestock, equine and poultry.
   ENCLOSURES.
      (1)   ENCLOSURES FOR ALL ANIMALS. Enclosures for all animals shall be a
fence or structure of sufficient height and construction to prevent the animal
from leaving the owner's property. The enclosure may be required to contain
proper shelter and a shaded area. Gates and doors must fit properly and must be
locked or secured that prevents the animal from opening the gate or door.
Enclosures for poultry must contain proper shelter and a shaded area.
      (2)   ENCLOSURES FOR DOGS.
         (a)   Enclosures for dogs shall be a fence or structure of sufficient
height and construction to prevent the animal from leaving the owner's
property. The enclosure must contain proper shelter and a shaded area. Gates
and doors must fit properly and must be locked or secured to prevent the animal
from opening the gate or door.
         (b)   Property enclosed by a buried wire which produces a signal
received by a device attached to a collar worn by the animal, and prevents the
animal from leaving the property of the owner will be considered a proper
enclosure, provided the device and signal are working and the animal does not
leave the property unrestrained. The enclosure must contain proper shelter from
the weather and a shaded area. This type of enclosure is not acceptable for an
unaltered animal, an animal declared a public nuisance or a dangerous animal.
      (3)   ENCLOSURES FOR DANGEROUS ANIMALS. Enclosures for dangerous animals
shall be a covered fence or fabricated structure at least six feet in height,
installed beneath ground level or in concrete or pavement, to prevent digging
under it, and with a gravel or concrete floor, sufficient size to allow the
animal to stand, sit, and turn around in a natural position, and which allows
for adequate exercise for the size/breed being kept. Enclosures shall be
designed to prevent the entry of children or unauthorized persons. Enclosures
shall be securely locked with a combination or key lock to prevent accidental
or malicious opening of the enclosure. Enclosures must contain proper shelter,
a shaded area and be properly ventilated. The owners residence, other existing
residence or storage building are not appropriate enclosures for a dangerous
animal, unless approved by the Animal Shelter. Any structure may be subject to
approval by a county representative and it is the responsibility of the owner
to comply with building codes if required.
   EQUINE. Domestic animals of, relating to, or resembling a horse or the horse
family, including, but not limited to horses, stallions, colts, geldings,
mares, fillies, ponies, miniature horses, donkeys, mules, jacks and jennies.
   EXHIBITION. A presentation, or other planned activity involving the
gathering of wild, exotic, and/or domestic animals in a public or private
venue.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is not normally considered to be a
domesticated animal as defined in this chapter. Any animal required to have a
state and/or federal permit to harbor. This includes, but is not limited to,
non-human primates; venomous cold-blooded reptiles; poisonous animals;
constrictor snakes three feet or longer; crocodilians five feet or longer; wild
or exotic cats including cheetahs, lions, panthers, leopards, servals, ocelots
and tigers (excluding feral cats); wolves; bears; sharks; elephants; camels;
native wild animals such as, but not limited to, bobcats, skunks, raccoons,
deer, coyote, weasels, opossum, foxes, mink, muskrat, squirrels and badgers.
   HARBORING. The actions of any person that permit any animal to lodge or to
be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard, or place of business or
any premises which the person owns, or in which the person resides, or over
which the person has possession or control. An animal shall be presumed
harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three consecutive days.
   HUNTING. The pursuit of any wild animal or bird licensed and regulated under
I.C. 14-22-11-1, or any successor provision to that statute. A hunter is a
person engaged in HUNTING and is in possession of a valid state hunting
license.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into custody of an animal control officer and/or taken to
the Animal Shelter.
   LEAD or LEASH. A device used for humanely restraining an animal.
   LIVESTOCK. Any animal raised for, or used in agriculture, including, but not
limited to sheep, rams, ewes, lambs, bulls, cows, steers, heifers, calves,
swine, boars, sows, piglets, goats, bucks, does, kids, llamas, alpaca, buffalo,
bison, deer, elk, chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, ostrich, emu, or any other
animals that are privately owned and raised in a confined area for breeding
stock, food, fiber, and other products.
   MICROCHIP. A passive transponder which can be implanted into an animal and
which is a component of a radio frequency identification (RFID) system.
   NEGLECT. Any reckless or negligent act or omission which results in a
domestic animal not receiving adequate shelter, food, water, or in a domestic
animal not receiving necessary veterinary care, or in a domestic animal housed
in unhealthy living conditions.
   NUISANCE. Any act of an animal or its owner that irritates, perturbs or
damages rights and privileges common to the enjoyment of public or private
property or indirectly injures or threatens the safety of a member of the
general public. By way of examples and not of limitation, the commissions on
the following acts or actions by an animal or by its owner or possessor may
hereby being declared a NUISANCE:
      (1)   Allowing or permitting an animal to habitually bark, whine, howl,
mew, crow or cackle in an excessive or continual fashion or make other noise in
such a manner so as to result in a serious annoyance or interference with the
reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring premises;
      (2)   Allowing or permitting an animal to damage the property of any
person other than its owner or caretaker, including to, but not limited to
getting into or turning garbage containers or damaging gardens, flowers, plants
or other real or personal property or leaving fecal material on the property of
another person;
      (3)   Allowing or permitting an animal to molest, chase, snap at, attack
or attempt to attack passers-by, vehicles or other domestic animals;
      (4)   Allowing or permitting an animal to habitually or continually run
at large or be found on property not belonging to that of its owners of
caretakers, trespassing on school grounds, parks or the property of any person;
      (5)   Allowing or permitting an animal to be housed or restrained within
reach of a public street, road, sidewalk, alley or access and, in the
discretion of the animal control officer, poses a threat to the general public
safety, health and welfare of the general public;
      (6)   Allowing or permitting an area to be maintained in an unsanitary
condition by the accumulation of animals and/or animal waste so as to be
offensive to sight or smell.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having control or custody
of animals within the jurisdiction of this chapter, provided, that in the event
that a minor person shall be determined the owner of the animal, the parent,
guardian of such minor person shall be responsible to ensure compliance with
the terms and provisions of this chapter, and shall be liable for any non-
compliance herewith.
   PARADE. A procession of people, usually organized along a street, often in
costume, and often accompanied by marching bands, floats and often of a festive
nature.
   POULTRY. All domesticated fowl and all game birds which are legally kept in
captivity, including, but not limited to chickens, ducks, guinea fowl, turkeys,
geese and peafowl.
   QUARANTINE. Humane confinement of an animal in a building which prevents the
animal coming into contact with any animal or human being other than the owner
or caretaker.
   RESTRAINT. Shall mean, but not be limited to, confined to the premises of
the owner or, if off of the premises of the owner, confined by means of a lead,
leash or pet carrier and under the control of a responsible person.
   REASONABLE CARE. That degree of care which a reasonable and prudent person
would, under the same or similar circumstances, render to an animal to prevent
injury, to care for an existing injury, or to prevent death.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any domestic animal or exotic animal, not located on the
real property of its owner, shall be deemed RUNNING AT LARGE if it is not under
restraint as defined in this chapter.
   SCRATCH. Any injury caused by the tearing, puncturing or cutting of the skin
caused by nails or claws.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. Any animal that is individually trained to perform tasks for
a person with a disability such as, but not limited to, guiding people who are
visually impaired, alerting people who are hearing impaired, assisting people
in wheelchairs, alerting and protecting an individual who is having a seizure.
SERVICE ANIMALS are working animals. Any animal kept as a therapy and/or
companionship animal shall not be considered as a SERVICE ANIMAL.
   SEVERE ATTACK. An unprovoked attack in an aggressive manner upon a human in
which the victim suffered a bite, was shaken violently, and which caused
serious physical trauma or death.
   SHELTER. A structure designed specifically to shelter an animal that allows
an animal to maintain its body heat, with a roof, solid floor and three sides
free of leaks or openings to the wind and precipitation, and a fourth side
allowing access that is protected from the elements. The SHELTER shall provide
reasonable protection from inclement weather and extreme temperatures. The
STRUCTURE shall be physically located in a dry area allowing the animal access
outside the structure to dry ground that is mud free. It shall be cleaned and
maintained regularly so as to prevent the accumulation of waste, debris and
offensive odors.
   TETHER. A long restraint fastened humanely to an animal's collar or harness,
so as to keep the animal within certain bounds and limited freedom. TETHERS
shall be made of a chain or similar material specifically designed for the
restraint of animals. TETHERS may not be made of rope, twine, cord or similar
material that can easily be cut or chewed through.
   UNALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has not been surgically sterilized to
prevent procreation.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.02 PERMITTING ANIMALS TO RUN AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any owned animal of any kind to run at
large. All animals shall be kept under restraint at all times, as defined in
this chapter, and any deviation or violation thereof is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   The foregoing provision shall not apply:
      (1)   If the owner is engaged in legal hunting activities with an active
hunting license if required, and the animal in question has been trained to
assist in hunting, and the animal's activities are being supervised by the
hunter;
      (2)   In any section of a public park designated as a leash free zone.
   (C)   Dangerous animals are not allowed to be in any area designated as a
leash free zone.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 AUTHORITY TO KILL ANIMALS.
   Animal control officers are authorized to kill any animal of any kind when
it is necessary to do so for the protection of any person, other animal or
property.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.04 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall in any manner interfere with, hinder, molest, or abuse
any officer or individual duly authorized to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   No person shall in any manner seek to release or remove any animal in
the custody of the Animal Shelter or from any humane trap identified as the
property of the Animal Shelter.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 EXHIBITIONS OR PARADES OF ANIMALS.
   Any exhibitions or parades of animals may be conducted only upon securing a
permit from the town. The Animal Shelter and its offsite locations will be
exempt from this section.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ANIMALS AS PRIZES OR INDUCEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to give away any live animal as a prize for, or as an
inducement to enter any contract, game, or other competition, or as an
inducement to enter a place of amusement; or offer such animal as an incentive
to enter in any business agreement in which the offer is for the purpose of
attracting trade. The Animal Shelter and its offsite locations will be exempt
from this section.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ANIMALS WHICH ARE A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   No owner shall allow an animal to be a nuisance as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 CRUEL TREATMENT OR NEGLECT OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, CRUELTY means any act prohibited by this
section. No person shall cause infliction of pain, any form of bodily injury or
death to an animal by:
      (1)   Striking, beating, dropping, throwing, kicking, dragging, choking,
or by the use of an object or weapon;
      (2)   Means of caustic, flammable, chemical, boiling, or heated
substances; causing suffering, any form of bodily injury or death by
suffocation or drowning;
      (3)   Failing to provide adequate food, water and shelter;
      (4)   Failing to detect the need for, or withholding veterinary care,
including care and maintenance of skin and coat, creating or allowing unhealthy
living conditions whether by intentionally or by severe omission.
   (B)   No person shall engage, participate or be present in any acts or
actions as defined as cruelty or neglect in this chapter. No person shall
cruelly treat or torment and/or neglect any animal.
   (C)   In the event there is a reasonable cause to suspect that an animal is
being a victim of cruelty or neglect, custody of such animal may be taken by an
animal control officer and impounded at the Animal Shelter. If claimed by its
owner within the time limit as defined in this chapter, the animal may be held
as evidence and confined in a humane manner. Any owner or caretaker shall be
responsible for all fees as defined in this chapter.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, CRUELTY AND/OR NEGLECT OF AN ANIMAL
shall also be defined as a failure by a person to adhere to the remedies and
requisites ordered by an animal control officer to comply with the requirements
and provisions of any sections of this chapter.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ANIMAL FIGHTING AND EXHIBITION FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit any dogfight, cockfight or other
combat between animals. In the event there is a reasonable cause to suspect
that an animal is involved in a dogfight, cockfight or other combat, custody of
such animal and all animals on the same property may be taken by an animal
control officer and impounded at the Animal Shelter. The animal may be held as
evidence and confined in a humane manner.
   (B)   No person shall own, possess, keep, train, exercise, breed or raise
any dog or other carnivore, bird or animal with the intent that such dog or
other carnivore, bird or animal be utilized, sold, given or leased for fighting
and/or engaged in an exhibition of fighting. In the event that a person owns,
possesses, keeps, trains, exercises, breeds or raises any dog or other
carnivore, bird or animal and/or engages in an exhibition of fighting or
selling, leasing or giving such animals for fighting, such person shall be
liable for citation for violation of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall be present at any dogfight, cockfight, animal
fighting, or combat between animals. In the event that a person is present at a
dogfight, cockfight, animal fighting or combat between animals, such person
shall be liable for citation for violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Any person who is found present at a dogfight, cockfight, or combat
between animals, and/or any person who is in possession of an animal that may
be used in an animal fight, may be charged with intent to engage in an
exhibition of fighting in violation of this chapter. Any animal shall be seized
and impounded as defined in this chapter if found on the premises or in the
immediate area of the dogfight, cockfight, or combat between animals.
   (E)   No person may own, possess, keep or utilize any animal fighting
paraphernalia with the intent to train, condition and/or fight any animal.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 PROVISION OF NECESSITIES.
   (A)   Any owner or caretaker shall provide his or her animal with a good and
adequate amount of wholesome food to maintain a healthful level of nutrition.
Any owner or caretaker shall provide and maintain a constant and reachable
supply of fresh and clean water at all times for his or her animal.
   (B)   All animals shall be provided with adequate shelter and protection
from the weather at all times. It shall be the discretion of animal control
officers to determine what constitutes adequate shelter and protection from the
weather. In addition to the shelter, a shaded area shall also be provided by
means of other structures, trees, tarps or awnings. Insulating or appropriate
bedding materials, such as straw or other materials that dry quickly shall be
provided during inclement weather. Shelters must be cleaned and maintained
regularly so as to promote proper health for the animals being kept. Equine and
livestock animals may be exempt from requiring shelter.
   (C)   Any owner or caretaker shall provide to his or her animal proper,
humane, medical and veterinary care and treatments when sick, diseased, injured
or for the purpose of preventing suffering.
   (D)   Any owner or caretaker of an animal shall maintain an appropriate
environment with clean and healthful living area for any animal being kept,
which area shall be free of accumulated waste and debris so that the animal
shall be free to walk or lie down without coming in contact with any such waste
or debris. All living areas shall be constructed and maintained to promote
drainage of rainwater to prevent the accumulation of mud and/or water.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 RESTRAINT, RESTRAINT BY TETHER, AND COLLAR SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   RESTRAINT shall mean, but not be limited to, confined to the premises
of the owner or, if off of the premises of the owner, confined by means of a
lead, leash or pet carrier and under the control of a responsible person.
   (B)   Any tethering system employed in place of an enclosure shall not allow
the animal to leave the owner's property. The tether may not be made of a rope,
twine, cord or similar material that can easily be cut or chewed through. Any
tethering system shall not be acceptable for any animal declared dangerous.
   (C)   Dogs may only be tethered using an overhead trolley, zip line or
running line system, and must have access to shelter, shade and water. Cats are
not allowed to be tethered.
   (D)   Tethers must be attached to a properly fitting collar or harness worn
by the animal. Tethers may not be wrapped around an animal's neck or body to
replace a collar or harness. All tethering devices must have a swivel device on
the anchor and collar or harness end to prevent tangling.
   (E)   All collars and harnesses used for the purpose of tethering an animal
must be made of nylon, leather or other durable and non-metallic material and
be specifically designed for the restraint of animals. A chain, choke, pinch,
prong collar or head halter shall not be utilized for tethering purposes. The
use of properly fitted head halters shall not apply to equine and livestock.
   (F)   All collars or harnesses must be checked regularly for proper fit to
avoid causing injury or becoming embedded into the animal's body.
   (G)   Tethers must be at least six feet in length or at least three times
the length of the animal.
   (H)   No tether shall weigh more than one-eighth of the animal's body
weight.
   (I)   No dog shall be tethered that has not been spayed or neutered.
   (J)   No dog under six months of age shall be tethered.
   (K)   No person shall tether a dog to a fixed point, such as a building,
shelter, tree, enclosure or other stationary object unless tethering is for a
duration of no longer than 15 minutes. A person may temporarily tether a dog to
a fixed point to complete a temporary task, such as, but not limited to,
vacuuming, mopping floors, moving furniture, so long as the person is located
on the same physical property as the tethered dog.
   (L)   lf one or more animals at a residence have required a response from an
animal control officer to untangle tethers more than two times in a 12-month
period, it shall be a violation of this section and the animals may be
impounded.
   (M)   ln addition to the requirements above, under this section, RESTRAINT
FOR EQUINES, LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY shall mean as follows:
      (1)   All equine and livestock shall be confined by an enclosure in good
repair or construction sufficient to prevent the animal from leaving the
owner's property. Equine and livestock found on property, but not restrained by
a tether or an enclosure in good repair or sufficient construction may be
impounded at the owner's expense and the owner charged with a violation of this
chapter.
      (2)   All poultry should be kept in an enclosure of sufficient height and
construction to prevent the animal from leaving the enclosure; and provide a
safe environment from predators. Poultry may not be tethered. Poultry found on
property, but not restrained by an enclosure may be impounded at the owner's
expense and the owner charged with a violation of this chapter, unless under
the direct supervision of the owner to prevent poultry from leaving the owner's
property. All poultry must be provided with access to shelter and a shaded
area.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 SEXUAL ACTS WITH ANIMALS.
   No person shall engage or cause to allow any other person to engage in a
sexual act with any animal.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   No person shall abandon an owned animal. Abandonment consists of
leaving an animal for a period in excess of 24 hours, without providing and
checking on the animal's condition, or failure to contact the Animal Shelter if
a request to contact is left on the property where the animal is. No person
shall leave an animal by a roadside or other area, or leave such animal on
either public or private property, without the property owner's consent. In the
event that an animal is found so abandoned, such animal may be taken by an
animal control officer and impounded at the Animal Shelter, and there confined
in a humane manner. Such animal, if taken from private property, shall be kept
for not less than the prescribed period in accordance with the procedures set
forth in §
90.35. When a caretaker is mandated by the owner of such and the animal is so
abandoned, the caretaker may be subject to a citation for violation of this
section and all fees as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   An animal control officer is authorized to impound any animal if the
Animal Control Officer deems that the condition of the animal requires
immediate care or veterinary treatment and/or upon finding reasonable suspicion
of abandonment and/or believe the animal needs to be removed for humane
reasons. The Animal Control Officer is authorized to go on and about private
property to investigate any abandonment to establish or not reasonable
suspicion of abandonment.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 KEEPING ANIMALS' PLACES OF HABITATION CLEAN.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow any place where any domestic or exotic
animal is, or may be, kept to become unclean or unwholesome, but shall keep the
area clean, sanitary, and free from all refuse and rodents. Such area shall be
cleaned at least once every 48 hours. It shall be unlawful to permit any
decaying food, excreta or any refuse of any kind to remain in such areas.
Refuse from such areas shall, when swept or collected, be kept in containers
until disposed of in accordance with the ordinances of the county.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or caretaker of an animal to permit
or allow such animal to excrete feces on school grounds, parks or other public
property, or on any private property other than that of the owner or person in
charge or control of such animal without the permission of the owner of said
property, or on any streets, sidewalk, or highways, unless the owner or person
in control of such animal immediately removes all feces deposited by such
animal and disposes of same in a sanitary manner. This section may not apply to
persons accompanied by a service animal used for their assistance.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 ANIMALS AFFLICTED WITH CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
   No domestic or exotic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious
disease shall be allowed to run at large, or be exposed in any public place
within the county whereby the health of human or animal may be affected; nor
shall such diseased animal be shipped or removed from the premises of the
owner, except for the purposes of transporting directly to obtain veterinary
assistance, or by the order of the Chief of the Police Department in the town,
Indiana or the Sheriff within the unincorporated areas of Floyd County,
Indiana, or an animal control officer.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 RABIES QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal which has caused injury and/or death to a human by means of
a bite and/or scratch shall be quarantined. The quarantine shall be consistent
with the practices, rules and regulations of the Floyd County Health Department
and the Indiana State Board of Animal Health.
   (B)   Any owner or caretaker who fails to properly quarantine his or her
animal is subject to citation for violation of this chapter, and the animal may
be impounded at the Animal Shelter or a licensed animal clinic or animal
hospital for the reminder of its quarantine period. The owner or caretaker
shall be responsible for all applicable fees as set forth in §
90.75 during the quarantine period if held at the Animal Shelter.
   (C)   Any animal whose owner is unavailable or incapable of quarantining the
animal is subject to the animal being taken by an animal control officer and
quarantined at the Animal Shelter or a licensed animal clinic or animal
hospital for the quarantine period.
   (D)   Any owner of an animal which must be quarantined may elect to board
such animal at the Animal Shelter for the quarantine period, if space is
available. Any owner of an animal which must be quarantined may elect to
surrender such animal to the Animal Shelter. The owner shall be responsible for
all applicable fees as set forth in §
90.75 during the quarantine period if held at, or surrendered to, the Animal
Shelter.
   (E)   Any quarantined animal not reclaimed by an owner within 24 hours of
the expiration of the prescribed period of quarantine shall be humanely
euthanized.
   (F)   Any human, bitten and/or scratched by an animal, or any physician or
other medical professional or medical institution treating such an injury,
shall report the bite and/or scratch to the Animal Shelter and/or the Floyd
County Health Department within 24 hours.
   (G)   Any animal that cannot be vaccinated against rabies with an approved
rabies vaccine, or any animal which has no established rabies quarantine
observation period, which bites and/or scratches a human, is to be euthanized
and its head shall be sent to the State Department of Heath for examination at
the expense of its owner or harborer for examination for rabies.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 ALLOWING ANIMAL TO REMAIN IN PARKED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful to leave an animal in a vehicle when the conditions in
that vehicle would pose a health hazard to the animal. Animal control officers
are authorized to seize such animal under these conditions. Damages incurred to
such vehicles during the seizure of such animal shall be at the expense of the
vehicle owner.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 SPAY/NEUTER PROGRAM ESTABLISHED AT ANIMAL SHELTER.
   This chapter adopts a spay/neuter program for the Animal Shelter on the
following terms:
   (A)   All persons wishing to adopt a dog or cat at the Animal Shelter must
pay a spay/neuter fee with their adoption fees. All dogs and cats adopted from
the Animal Shelter must be surgically altered unless a licensed veterinarian,
in writing, states the animal is unfit for surgery.
   (B)   The Animal Shelter shall deposit all monies collected from this spay/
neuter fee into the non- reverting fund for the spay/neuter program with the
City Controller, and thereafter shall process all claims to maintain the spay/
neuter clinic at the Animal Shelter.
(Ord. G-95-209, passed 2-16-1995; Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
ANIMAL REGISTRATION AND RABIES VACCINATION
§ 90.25 CATS TO BE REGISTERED AND LICENSED.
   (A)   Any person owning, harboring or having custody of a cat within the
county must obtain a license within 15 days of obtaining the animal. Licenses,
except for lifetime licenses, shall be valid for one year from date of issue.
Any person not eligible to obtain a license may not own a cat.
   (B)   Applications for licenses shall be made to the Animal Shelter.
   (C)   If the applicant withholds or falsifies any information on the
application, no license shall be issued. Any licenses issued upon false or
withheld information shall be null and void.
   (D)   Application shall include species, breed, gender, name of the animal,
whether the animal has been altered, a current rabies certificate, if required,
issued by a licensed veterinarian, and the name, telephone number and address
of the owner.
   (E)   It shall be within the discretion of the Animal Shelter whether to
issue a license if there have been three or more violations of this chapter
within 12 months' time.
   (F)   Upon issuance of the license and payment of all fees, the Animal
Shelter shall issue to the applicant a durable tag stamped with an
identification number. The Animal Shelter shall maintain a record of the
identifying number of all tags issued.
   (G)   The Animal Shelter shall charge fees for animal licenses and certain
other charges pursuant to §
90.75. The Animal Shelter shall deposit all monies collected from this section
into the non-reverting fund for the Animal Control Runs Fund with the City
Controller. The fees shall be collected by the Animal Shelter, or by its fiscal
agent.
   (H)   The license fee may be waived for certified service animals and
governmental police dogs. These shall still be registered with the Animal
Shelter and must obtain a license as any other.
   (I)   The owner of any animal deemed by a veterinarian to be unfit to
undergo a spaying or neutering operation shall be, upon presentation of written
certification to that effect by a licensed veterinarian, charged the fee for an
altered animal.
   (J)   No person shall use a license for any animal other than the animal for
which it was issued.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 EXOTIC ANIMALS TO BE REGISTERED.
   All exotic animals as defined in this chapter shall be registered with the
Animal Shelter. Registration shall include the name, address and phone number
of the owner, and a description of the animal to aid Animal Control Officers in
finding the owners of any animal running at large or during an emergency. Any
fee for registration may be waived by the Animal Shelter.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 DOGS, CATS AND FERRETS OVER THREE MONTHS TO BE INOCULATED.
   It shall be unlawful to own, possess, keep or harbor any dog, cat or ferret
over the age of three months within the county, unless that animal has been
inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and the inoculation period
has not expired.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.35 IMPOUNDMENT AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any animal which is found by an animal control officer to be in
violation of this chapter may be impounded and confined in a humane manner
until reclaimed by its owner or otherwise disposed of in accordance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Impounded animals, except those suffering from an injury or physical
condition which causes the animal to suffer, shall be kept and maintained by
the Animal Shelter for the following state periods:
      (1)   Impounded animals: three days, not including Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays recognized by the town;
      (2)   Quarantined animals: ten days from the day the bite and/or scratch
occurs.
   (C)   Animal control officers are authorized to go on or about private
property to seize an animal. If an animal is seized, the Animal Control Officer
shall issue a written notice of seizure and leave it with the owner or affix it
to the premises from which the animal was seized.
   (D)   Impounded domestic pets, other than feral cats, shall be kept three
business days, unless reclaimed by their owner. If the owner can be identified
by means of a license tag, collar ID, microchip, rabies tag or other means
physically attached to or upon the body of the animal, the impounding agency
shall notify the owner of the impoundment of the animal, and the animal will be
held for five days, not including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays recognized by
the town, unless reclaimed by the owner. Animals not reclaimed by their owners
within the established time periods and those not placed in suitable new homes
after such time, may be humanely euthanized. However, if an impounded animal
has an injury or physical or medical condition, which causes the animal or
other domestic animals to suffer, the Animal Shelter may immediately humanely
euthanize the animal. For the purposes of this chapter, the impoundment term
shall commence on the date of delivery of the animal to the place of
impoundment and not the date of notification of the owner. An owner desiring to
reclaim an impounded animal shall comply with and pay such fees as provided by
the terms and provisions of this chapter. If an animal has been impounded
because of a violation to this chapter, the Animal Shelter may refuse to
release the animal to its owner until the owner gives reasonable assurances
that the conditions have been corrected or a court order is given requiring the
Animal Shelter to relinquish the animal back to the owner. These assurances may
be verified by an animal control officer before releasing the animal back to
the owner. If an animal has been impounded for any violation of this chapter
and such animal was adopted from the Animal Shelter or one of its offsite
locations, the Animal Shelter may refuse to release such animal to the owner.
   (E)   Animals not reclaimed by their owners within the applicable time
period, may thereafter be placed in suitable homes, or may be humanely
euthanized. Unclaimed animals that have been placed under rabies quarantine
shall be humanely euthanized.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.36 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL IN IMMEDIATE DANGER.
   Any animal observed by an animal control officer to be in immediate danger
may be removed from such situation by the quickest and most reasonable means
available.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.37 ANIMAL SHELTER TO RECORD DATA ON IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   Immediately after impounding any animal, the Animal Control Officer shall
enter upon the records of the Animal Shelter the date of impoundment, a
description of the animal impounded, and the location where the animal was
impounded. A list of impounded animals shall be kept at the Animal Shelter.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.38 IMPOUNDING FEE; BOND.
   (A)   The Animal Shelter shall charge impounding fees, boarding charges and
certain other fees pursuant to §
90.75. The fees shall be collected by the Animal Shelter, or by its fiscal
agent.
   (B)   The owner of an animal that has been impounded under this chapter and
charged with a violation of this chapter, may prevent disposition of the animal
by the Animal Shelter caring for the animal by posting, not later than three
days after the animal has been impounded, a bond with the Animal Shelter in an
amount sufficient to provide for the animal's care and keeping for at least 30
days, beginning from the date the animal was impounded. The owner may renew a
bond by posting a new bond, in an amount sufficient to provide for the animal's
care and keeping for at least an additional 30 days, not later than five days
after the expiration of the period for which a previous bond was posted. If a
bond expires and is not renewed, the Animal Shelter may determine disposition
of the animal. If the owner of an animal impounded under this section is found
guilty or signs an agreement with conditions of an offense under this chapter,
the owner shall forfeit the bond to the Animal Shelter to reimburse the Animal
Shelter for the expense of the animal's care and keeping. If the owner has paid
a bond under this chapter, the Animal Shelter may still euthanize an animal if
a veterinarian determines that an animal is suffering extreme pain.
   (C)   If the owner requests, the court or the Animal Control Authority,
having jurisdiction of charges filed under this chapter or I.C. 15-5-12 shall
hold a hearing to determine whether probable cause exists to believe that a
violation of this chapter or I.C. 15-5-12 has occurred. If the court determines
that probable cause does not exist, the court may order the animal returned to
its owner, and the return of any bond posted by its owner.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.39 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   The owner of an animal may redeem the animal by paying all the costs
and fines assessed that have accrued up to the time of making the redemption,
plus the license fee for the animal, if required. Any animal not claimed by an
owner, in accordance with the time periods described in this chapter, shall
become the property of the Animal Shelter and may be disposed of in any manner
as is in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   An application for redemption must be filed by the owner, if at all
prior to the expiration of the impoundment term. If the owner cannot be
identified, the Animal Shelter may request reasonable proof of ownership as a
condition for the release of the animal. For purposes of this section, proof of
ownership may include bills of sale; photos depicting the animal and the owner,
vet records with owners name and/or similar evidence. In the event of the
existence of a controversy pertaining to the ownership or right of possession
of an impounded animal, the Animal Shelter may refuse redemption except upon
the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any animal impounded may be released only upon the application for
redemption and after being fitted with a microchip, to facilitate future
identification of the animal and owner. Any animal impounded two times within a
12-month period, such animal may be released only upon application for
redemption and conditioned upon the spaying or neutering of the animal. The
cost of either such procedures shall be paid by the owner of the animal. The
Animal Shelter may release any animal at their discretion without an
application for a microchip or spaying or neutering.
   (4)   Any animal deemed to be suffering with extreme pain due to possible
injury or apparent disease may be humanely euthanized before the holding period
has expired.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited methods of destruction, see I.C. 15-5-17-1
§ 90.40 EUTHANASIA AND DISPOSAL OF PRIVATELY OWNED ANIMALS.
   The Animal Shelter shall have the ability to charge the owner of any animal
certain fees to euthanize and dispose of said animal, in accordance with §
90.75.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 90.50 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
         (1)   Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings
or other domestic animals by virtue of a known propensity to endanger life by
unprovoked assault or bite or scratch so as to cause serious bodily harm;
         (2)   Any animal that approaches a human being or other domestic
animal upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds in a vicious or
terrorizing manner or an attitude of aggression when unprovoked;
         (3)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury to or otherwise endanger the safety of a
human being or other domestic animal;
         (4)   Any animal which bites, inflicts injury to or otherwise attacks
a human being or other domestic animal without provocation on public or private
property;
         (5)   Any animal which scratches, inflicts injury, assaults or
otherwise attacks a human being or other domestic animal without provocation on
public or private property;
         (6)   Any animal which behaves in such a manner that the owner
therefore knows or should reasonably know that the animal possesses a tendency
to attack, bite or scratch a human being or other domestic animal;
         (7)   Any animal certified by a licensed or certified aggression dog
trainer, evaluator or behaviorist after observation thereof, as posing a danger
to a human being or other domestic animal if not kept in a manner required by
this chapter upon the basis of behavioral probability; or
         (8)   Any animal that cannot be vaccinated against rabies with an
approved rabies vaccine, and any animal which has no established rabies
quarantine observation period.
         (9)   Exceptions. An animal may not be deemed dangerous solely
because:
            (a)   It bites, scratches, attacks or menaces:
               (1)   Anyone assaulting its owner. This shall not include any
law enforcement officer attempting to subdue or affect the arrest or detain of
a suspect;
               (2)   It has attacked or attempted to attack any person or
animal that has tormented or abused it.
            (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person
or other animal upon its owner or any other person;
            (c)   It is defending its offspring and on its owners property;
            (d)   Anyone entering the owner's property to commit robbery,
burglary, assault or other crime or entering a secured building without
permission. Simple trespassing by a person onto private property may not be
considered provocation for any attack;
            (e)   It is severely injured or incapacitated;
            (f)   Any animals which are employed by a law enforcement
department in the State of Indiana or any animal which has been certified
either nationally or by the State of Indiana for use in law enforcement work
providing the animal is owned and in the possession of the handler and/or for
whom the certification was meant.
   (B)   Enclosures/restraint for dangerous animals.
      (1)   Enclosures for dangerous animals shall be a covered fence or
fabricated structure at least six feet in height, installed beneath ground
level or in concrete or pavement to prevent digging under it, and with a gravel
or concrete floor, sufficient size to allow the animal to stand, sit, and turn
around in a natural position, and which allows for adequate exercise for the
size/breed being kept. Enclosures shall be designed to prevent the entry of
children or unauthorized persons. Such enclosures shall be securely locked with
a combination or key lock which has been designed to prevent accidental or
malicious opening of the enclosure. The enclosure must contain proper shelter,
a shaded area and be properly ventilated. The owners residence, other existing
residence or storage building are not appropriate enclosures for a dangerous
animal, unless approved by an animal control officer. Any structure may be
subject to approval by the Georgetown Building Department and it is the
responsibility of the owner to comply with building codes if required.
      (2)   Restraint for a dangerous animal shall be:
         (a)   On the premises of the owner and confined in a secure enclosure
as previously defined; or
         (b)   If off the premises of the owner, the animal must be accompanied
by the owner, securely muzzled and restrained with a leather, or nylon lead or
leash having the tensile strength to restrain the animal and not to exceed six
feet in length. The lead or leash must be under the control of a person over
the age of 18 years of age and physically able to restrain the animal. The
muzzle shall be made in such a manner that will not cause injury to the animal
or interfere with the animal's vision or respiration, but shall prevent the
animal from biting any human being or other animal.
   (C)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to the penalty
provided in §
90.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.51 DUTY OF OWNERS OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dangerous animal to exercise
reasonable care and to take all necessary steps and precautions to protect
other people, property, and animals from injuries or damage which might result
from the animal's behavior, regardless of whether such behavior is motivated by
mischievousness, playfulness, or ferocity.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every owner of an animal that resides on
rental property to notify the property owner if that animal has been declared
dangerous
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dangerous animal to ensure
that the animal is kept under control and that reasonable care and precautions
are taken to prevent the animal from leaving, while unattended, the real
property limits of its owner, possessor or custodian and that:
      (1)   It is securely and humanely enclosed within an enclosure as
described in this chapter, out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump or otherwise
escape on its own; and such enclosure must be securely locked at anytime the
animal is left unattended; or
      (2)   In the event the animal is outside of its dwelling unit and
enclosure, the animal shall be securely muzzled and restrained with a lead or
leash and shall be under the direct control of its owner.
      (3)   Any animal placed under §
90.50 is to be spayed or neutered at the expense of the owner.
      (4)   Any animal placed under §
90.50 is to be microchipped at the expense of the owner.
      (5)   Any animal declared a dangerous animal shall purchase and maintain
a current license for a dangerous animal, if required.
      (6)   The owner of a dangerous animal shall display a sign on his or her
property or premises warning that there is a dangerous animal on the premises.
The sign shall be visible and capable of being read from a public right-of-way.
      (7)   The owner shall immediately notify the Animal Shelter, the
Georgetown Police Department or the Floyd County Sheriff if a dangerous animal
is loose, and/or has attacked another animal or a human being, or has died.
      (8)   The animal may be impounded to make whatever inquiry is deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
animal control officer is hereby empowered to seize and impound any dangerous
animal whose owner fails to comply with the provisions hereof, subject to the
right of such owner to contest the seizure or impoundment, as provided in this
chapter, in the Floyd County Court. The animal will be retained by the Animal
Shelter during the pendency of any such proceeding if the owner posts a bond
pursuant to section §
90.38, and the Animal Shelter shall have the power to dispose of any such
animal prior to the termination of any court proceedings if no bond is posted
or the bond is allowed to lapse, in accordance with that section of this
chapter.
      (9)   In the event that any animal previously placed under §
90.50 is found running at large or in violation of this chapter, the animal
will be impounded by an animal control officer and euthanized.
      (10)   Any owner of an animal declared a dangerous animal shall not sell,
transfer, give away or use other form of disposition of the animal other than
surrender the animal to the Animal Shelter.
      (11)   Any owner of an animal declared as dangerous shall request
authorization from the Animal Shelter to change the location of the animal. The
new location, if authorized, shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
      (12)   In the event that the owner of the animal refuses to surrender the
animal to an animal control officer, the Animal Control Officer may request a
warrant to seize the animal upon execution of the warrant.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 90.60 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for any animal control officer to canvass any
dwelling unit, business, organization and institution for the purpose of
ascertaining compliance with any section of this chapter and/or any state law
pertaining to animals.
   (B)   It shall be lawful for any animal control officer to go upon private
property to inspect the condition of any animal or investigate any violation of
this chapter and/or any state law pertaining to animals.
   (C)   It shall be lawful for any animal control officer to inspect any
dwelling unit, business, organization and institution with the consent of any
owner or occupant, or by administrative or criminal search warrant, for the
purpose of an investigation of any violation of this chapter and/or state law
pertaining to animals.
   (D)   It shall be lawful for any animal control officer to go onto private
property to seize any animal; pursuant to the sections of this chapter; or with
an order of a court of competent jurisdiction in this state, or for any
violation of this chapter and/or state law pertaining to animals that causes an
animal control officer to believe that the situation endangers the health or
well-being or is a life-threatening condition for such animal or such animal
needs to be removed for humane reasons and/or required immediate care or
veterinary treatment or such animal poses a threat to public health or safety.
   (E)   It shall be lawful for any animal that is found by an animal control
officer to be running at large, public nuisance, inhumanely or cruelly treated,
neglected, has bitten/scratched another animal or human being, is being kept in
conditions which violate this chapter or is posing imminent, serious threat to
human beings or other domestic animals, may be impounded at the Animal Shelter
or any other place appropriate for the holding of animals in a humane manner
until released to the owner. The Animal Shelter may refuse to release any
animal to its owner until the owner comes into compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to impoundment under this section, the owner may face
penalties pursuant to §
90.99.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.61 POWERS OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS.
   (A)   Animal control officers have the power to issue citations to people
accused of violating this chapter in accordance with its provisions regarding
enforcement procedures.
   (B)   Animal control officers have the power to enforce any state laws or
regulations regarding the use of animals in agriculture, cruelty to animals, or
animal disease prevention and care. Any violation of state law must be referred
to the office of the Floyd County Prosecutor.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.62 CUSTODIAL LIABILITY.
   In the event that the owner of any domestic or exotic animal is a minor, the
custodian, parent or guardian legally responsible for such minor shall be
liable for all violations of this chapter.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.63 DESTRUCTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No animal shall be destroyed within three days of being impounded
unless necessary to prevent or stop an attack upon a person or another animal,
or for humane reasons related to sickness or injury of the animal, or as
otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   An impounded animal shall not be destroyed pending an owner's appeal
of a court order of destruction. The Animal Control Officer shall have the
burden of proving that the animal should be destroyed pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.64 POWERS OF THE ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   The Animal Control Authority was established by an interlocal cooperation
agreement between Floyd County and the City of New Albany on May 20, 1999,
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-7 et seq. and all the terms and
conditions contained therein are affirmed and incorporated by reference herein:
   (A)   The Animal Control Authority may uphold or reverse a decision made by
an animal control officer declaring that an animal is a public nuisance or
dangerous animal as defined by this chapter.
      (1)   If such a decision is upheld the Animal Control Authority may place
the owner of the animal on probation for a period of time determined by the
Animal Control Authority, which is deemed in the best interest of the animal
and the community.
      (2)   The Animal Control Authority may place restrictions on the owner
during the period of probation that are deemed in the best interest of the
animal and the community.
   (B)   Any and all appeals for permits or revocation of permits within this
chapter shall come before the Animal Control Authority for hearing.
   (C)   These hearings shall be recorded. Transcripts of these hearings may be
made at the expense of any person seeking review of the hearings.
   (D)   Appeals from the determinations of the Animal Control Authority may be
sent to the court of appropriate jurisdiction in accordance with, and subject
to the procedures and deadlines set out in, the provisions of the Indiana
Administrative Code regarding administrative appeals
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.65 MEETINGS WITH ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Animal Control Authority may, at its sole discretion, meet with
any person suspected of violating this chapter for the purpose of informal
negotiations to determine any penalties or establish a plan to remedy
violations. People accused of violating this chapter may also request a
conference with the Animal Control Authority to resolve any claim of violation.
These negotiations shall be conducted informally, for the purpose of peaceful
resolution of claimed violations of this chapter.
   (B)   Meetings conducted under this section shall be entitled to the
evidentiary privileges afforded to settlement negotiations under Indiana law.
   (C)   Unless an agreement is arrived at, no representations made by any
party shall continue to bind that party should any official or judicial
proceeding be undertaken to enforce this chapter.
   (D)   Allegations of violations of state law must be referred to the Floyd
County Prosecutor.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.66 RESOLUTION AND SETTLEMENTS.
   (A)   The Animal Control Authority and the accused person may enter into a
settlement agreement regarding the matters alleged in the report of the Animal
Control Officer. Such a settlement agreement may provide for:
      (1)   Remedial actions to be undertaken by the accused;
      (2)   A time table by which such remedial actions must be performed; and/
or
      (3)   The waiver of fines, penalties, and other sanctions available under
this chapter.
   (B)   A settlement agreement entered into under this section must be reduced
to writing and signed by the person claimed to have violated this chapter or
his or her representative, parent, or legal guardian; and the Animal Control
Authority or its representative.
   (C)   A settlement entered into under this section is binding upon all the
parties and their heirs, successors, and assigns.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.67 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If no settlement agreement is reached, or any settlement agreement is
breached by the person responsible for the animal; or if the Animal Control
Authority decides in its sole discretion that a settlement conference would be
unhelpful or that a situation exists that requires immediate action, the Animal
Control Officer may bring judicial proceedings to enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Judicial proceedings shall be brought by the Georgetown Attorney or
his or her designee.
   (C)   Fines, judgments, and injunctive relief against violation of this
chapter may be sought in any such judicial proceedings and any other remedies
available to the Animal Control Authority in law or equity.
   (D)   In addition to any and all other remedies available at law or equity,
a court may award the Animal Shelter all right, title and interest in any
animal in any judicial proceeding brought to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
FEE SCHEDULE
§ 90.75 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Impound fees for animals.
First impound of animal            $20.00 plus $10.50 per day boarding
Second impoundment of same animal  $45.00 plus $10.50 per day boarding
Third or subsequent impoundment    $85.00 plus $10.50 per day boarding
After hours impound of an animal   $30.00 plus $10.50 per day boarding
Animals held for court/township    $30.00 plus $20.00 per day boarding
First impound of horse/livestock   $40.00 plus $40.00 per day boarding
Second impound of horse/livestock  $85.00 plus $40.00 per day boarding
Third or subsequent impoundment of $110.00 plus $40.00 per day boarding
above
Animal for quarantine period held/ $200.00 plus $30.00 each additional day
processed
Transportation of an animal        $35.00 plus $15.00** if tranquilizer
                                   needed
 
   (B)   Health care fee for animals.
 
Health care package †      $17.50
Impound adoption health care $72.50
package‡
                             $25.00 plus $15.00 for any tranquilizer
Microchipping of an animal   needed
                             (microchips by appointment, only after all
                             fees are paid)
†   Health care package for canines includes application of flea
preventative, wormer, distemper/parvo vaccination and bordetella
vaccination.
   Health care package for felines includes application of flea
preventative, wormer, distemper vaccination and ear mite treatment.
‡   Impound adoption health care fee includes microchip, spaying or
neutering, FIV or heartworm test and above canine or feline health care
package.
 
   (C)   Animal licenses and permits.
 
Altered animals   $5.00
Unaltered animals $35.00
Dangerous animals $100.00
Lifetime license  $25.00
Duplicate license $4.50
 
   (D)   Adoptions.
      (1)   Fees.
 
Canines              $80.00 ($25.00*, $55.00**)
Felines               
   Under 4 pounds $60.00 ($15.00*, $45.00**)
   Over 4 pounds  $20.00 ($10.00*, $10.00**)
                     (All canine and feline adoptions include a health care package †.)
†   Health care package for canines includes application of flea preventative, wormer,
distemper/parvo vaccination and bordetella vaccination.
   Health care package for felines includes application of flea preventative, wormer,
distemper vaccination and ear mite treatment.
 
      (2)   When requested an adoptable animal can be placed on a hold for 24
hours at a cost of $5 per animal. This fee is not to be applied to the adoption
cost of the animal and will be considered a donation for this service.
   (E)   “Take a Chance on Me”: Fee of $80.00, canines only. Fee refunded
within 60 days of return.
   (F)   “Take Me Out of the Shelter”: A fee of $80 plus $10 per day shall
apply for canines only. The $80 is to be refunded within 60 days of return but
the per day fee not returned.
   (G)   Adoption guarantee program: A $25 non-refundable health and
temperament evaluation fee shall apply. For the first 12 days: $75 if proof of
spayed/neutered and current on shots. The fee is $100 if pet is unaltered or
has no shots. Other types of animal adoption fees are to be determined by
Director.
   (H)   Owner-requested euthanasia.
 
Animals less than 20 pounds $45.00*, any tranquilizer $15.00**
Animals 20 to 50 pounds     $60.00*, any tranquilizer $20.00**
Animals 50 pounds or over   $75.00*, any tranquilizer $25.00**
 
   (I)   Just disposal of animal carcasses.
 
25 pounds or less  $20.00
25 to 50 pounds    $30.00
50 pounds or above $40.00
No animal carcass in excess of 25 pounds, except that of a canine, shall be
accepted for disposal.
 
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding an unrestrained animal or
for any other violation of this chapter, any animal control officer may issue a
citation to the owner or caregiver of such animal specifying the section or
sections of this chapter so violated and identifying the specific nature of the
violation. A person who receives a citation has 24 hours to correct the
violation or he or she may be subject to additional penalties or the animal may
be subject to impoundment as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon complaint and execution by any citizen of a sworn affidavit that
said affiant has actual knowledge that any section of this chapter has been
violated, an animal control officer may constitute reasonable suspicion for an
investigation.
   (C)   A first offender in violation of any provision of §§
90.04 through
90.17 and/or §§
90.25 through
90.27 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200. For any second or
subsequent violation of any provision of §§
90.02,
90.04 through
90.17 and/or
90.25 through
90.27, a person shall be fined not less than $100 or more than $250.
   (D)   A first offender in violation of any provision of §§
90.50 or
90.51 shall be fined not less than $100 or more than $250. In the event that
any animal previously placed under §§
90.50 or
90.51 is found in violation of this chapter, the animal will be impounded by an
animal control officer and euthanized.
   (E)   Fines and penalties collected pursuant to this chapter shall be
collected, pursuant to §
90.75 approved by the town. The fees shall be collected by the Animal Shelter,
or by its fiscal agent and deposited with the City Controller and shall be
retained in the Non-Reverting Fund Animal Control Runs Fund.
   (F)   In addition to any and all other remedies available at law or equity,
a court may award the Animal Shelter all right, title and interest in any
animal in any judicial proceeding brought to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. G-20-04, passed 7-28-2020)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; ENVIRONMENT
Section
Noise Restrictions
   
91.001   Authority
   
91.002   Jurisdiction
   
91.003   Prohibited noise
   
91.004   Exemptions
Abandoned Vehicle
   
91.015   Value at which officer can dispose of vehicle
   
91.016   Tagging of vehicle
   
91.017   Manner of disposal
   
91.018   Report
   
91.019   Recordkeeping
Disposal of Trash and Cars
   
91.030   Applicability
   
91.031   Storage of motor vehicles prohibited
   
91.032   Storage of building materials
   
91.033   Grass or weeds
   
91.034   Notice served; time to correct
   
91.035   Removal by town
   
91.036   Littering on streets
   
91.037   Littering generally
Weeds and Grass
   
91.050   Short title
   
91.051   Jurisdiction
   
91.052   Definitions; exclusions
   
91.053   Owners and occupants responsible for trimming and removal
   
91.054   Filing complaint
   
91.055   Notice of violations
   
91.056   Appeals
   
91.057   Abatement by town
   
91.058   Liability
Disease Control
   
91.070   Unlicensed child care facilities
 
   
91.999   Penalty
NOISE RESTRICTIONS
§ 91.001 AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council enacted this subchapter through the authority provided
under the state code.
(Ord. G-16-06, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 91.002 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all land within the town except that which
lies within the exclusive jurisdiction of the county or any other municipal
entity.
(Ord. G-16-06, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 91.003 PROHIBITED NOISE.
   No person shall play, use, or operate any machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound, including, but not limited to, loudspeakers,
radios, CD players, television sets, musical instruments, phonographs, and
cassette players, nor any other machine or tool that produces sound, if such
machine, tool, or vehicle is located in, or on, any of the following: any
public property, including any public right-of-way, highway, building,
sidewalk, public space, park, or thoroughfare and the sound generated therefrom
is audible 50 feet or more from its source; any private property and the sound
generated therefrom is audible 50 feet or more outside of said property line;
or any radio, musical instrument, phonograph, television receiver, or other
machine or device for the producing, reproducing, or amplification of the human
voice, music, or any other sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace,
quiet, and comfort of neighbor occupants or any reasonable person residing or
working in the area.
(Ord. G-16-06, passed 4-18-2016) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Lawn mowers, weed blowers, garden tractors, construction and repair
equipment, agricultural equipment, go-carts, power tools, when properly
muffled, between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. only;
   (C)   Burglar alarms and other warning devices when properly installed,
providing the cause for such alarm or warning device sound is investigated and
turned off within a reasonable period of time;
   (D)   Events authorized by a majority decision of the Town Council;
   (E)   Noise associated with athletic events;
   (F)   Sounds emitted for emergency purposes;
   (G)   Sounds associated with legal fireworks;
   (H)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established non-
transient businesses, organizations, and governmental entities, when such
sounds are customary, incidental, and within the normal range appropriate for
such use; provided, however, that commercial enterprises shall not be entitled
to this exemption between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.;
   (I)   Garbage collection between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.;
   (J)   Sounds associated with equipment or animals lawfully utilized by
handicapped persons to accommodate their handicap;
   (K)   Sounds associated with the legal discharging of a firearm; or
   (L)   Noise associated with an auction conducted by a licensed auctioneer.
(Ord. G-16-06, passed 4-18-2016)
ABANDONED VEHICLE
§ 91.015 VALUE AT WHICH OFFICER CAN DISPOSE OF VEHICLE.
   The Town Council hereby establishes the market value below which an officer
may dispose of an abandoned vehicle or parts at $500.
(2005 Code, § 91.15) (Ord. G-03-08, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 91.016 TAGGING OF VEHICLE.
   The Town Marshal shall tag a vehicle or parts he or she believes to be
abandoned in the manner prescribed in I.C. 9-22-1-11 and all successor statutes
that may be enacted.
(2005 Code, § 91.16) (Ord. G-03-08, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 91.017 MANNER OF DISPOSAL.
   Pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-13(a), and all successor statutes that may be
enacted, the Town Marshal shall immediately dispose of an abandoned vehicle or
parts to an automobile scrapyard if he or she determines the value thereof to
be less than $500.
(2005 Code, § 91.17) (Ord. G-03-08, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 91.018 REPORT.
   The Town Marshal shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the
vehicle or parts, including information on the condition, missing parts, and
other facts that might substantiate the estimated market value of the vehicle
or parts pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-12 and all successor statutes that may be
enacted.
(2005 Code, § 91.18) (Ord. G-03-08, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 91.019 RECORDKEEPING.
   The Town Marshal shall retain the original records and photographs of the
vehicle or parts for at least two years as required by I.C. 9-22-1-13 and all
successor statutes that may be enacted.
(2005 Code, § 91.19) (Ord. G-03-08, passed 4-15-2003)
DISPOSAL OF TRASH AND CARS
§ 91.030 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to any person, firm, corporation, or association of
persons who owns, leases, uses, or resides on real estate, whether used for
residential or commercial purposes, located within the corporate limits of the
town.
(2005 Code, § 91.30) (Ord. G-94-25, passed 11-21-1994)
§ 91.031 STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to store, or permit to be stored, on the above
described real estate any motor vehicle, including, but not limited to, trucks,
cars, and buses:
   (A)   Which are not licensed or drivable;
   (B)   Which have not been in use for a period lasting 20 days; or
   (C)   Which are not usable for any purpose whatsoever.
(2005 Code, § 91.31) (Ord. G-94-25, passed 11-21-1994) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.032 STORAGE OF BUILDING MATERIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to store, or permit to be stored, on the above
described real estate any used building materials, rubbish, garbage, waste, or
any other material that is not fit for use for any purpose.
   (B)    RUBBISH is defined as combustible refuse, including, but not limited
to, paper, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard
trimmings, leaves (to the extent that the leaves pose a fire hazard and/or pose
a threat to public health and safety), wood furniture, other wood or
combustible articles, bedding and plastic; and noncombustible refuse,
including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, contents of litter
receptacles, and broken pieces of concrete, asphalt, glass, crockery, bottles,
and other containers.
(2005 Code, § 91.32) (Ord. G-94-25, passed 11-21-1994; Ord. 04-10, passed 4-15-
2004) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.033 GRASS OR WEEDS.
   It shall be unlawful to allow any grass or weeds to grow on the above
described real estate to a height greater than 12 inches above the ground.
(2005 Code, § 91.33) (Ord. G-94-25, passed 11-21-1994) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.034 NOTICE SERVED; TIME TO CORRECT.
   (A)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of this subchapter unless the
offender shall fail to correct the condition within five days after receiving
notice that the condition of the real estate is in violation of this subchapter
and that the Town Council has ordered the condition to be corrected.
   (B)   The notice may be served by any member of the Police Department, or by
mailing it by registered or certified mail, with return receipt requested.
(2005 Code, § 91.34) (Ord. G-94-25, passed 11-21-1994)
§ 91.035 REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   If the condition of the real estate has not been corrected within 30 days
after the aforesaid five-day notice period, the town shall cause the condition
to be corrected by mowing the grass or weeds, or by removal or cleanup of the
motor vehicles, trash, waste, garbage, rubbish, or unused building materials.
The town shall cause an amount, which is the sum of the penalty levied pursuant
to §
91.999, and the cost of mowing, removal, or cleanup, to be the certified to the
County Auditor as a charge against the taxes due and payable to the County
Treasurer in the following year, together with a penalty of 10%.
(2005 Code, § 91.35) (Ord. G-94-25, passed 11-21-1994)
§ 91.036 LITTERING ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any garbage or trash to be strewn about any
of the streets or alleys of the town.
(2005 Code, § 91.36) (Ord. G-68-01, passed 7-11-1968) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.037 LITTERING GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow litter to escape from his
or her control and proper disposal within the town limits.
   (B)   This includes, but is not limited to: dropping litter onto any public
or private property; throwing litter from any vehicle onto any public or
private property; and failing to secure litter such that it is blown by the
wind out of a moving vehicle, out of a trash receptacle, and the like.
   (C)   This section shall be interpreted to include allowing litter to gain
access to the town’s storm sewer management system, either through open
drainage swales, closed drainage systems, and/or any bodies of surface water.
(Ord. G-06-13, passed 4-20-2006) Penalty, see §
91.999
WEEDS AND GRASS
§ 91.050 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance” or “this subchapter”
or “subchapter”.
(2005 Code, § 91.50) (Ord. G-09-09, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 91.051 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be the corporate limits of
the town, as presently defined or as may be modified from time to time by
annexation or town ordinance.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended, or repealed.
(2005 Code, § 91.51) (Ord. G-09-09, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 91.052 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the town executive, being the
president of the Town Council.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The fee simple titleholder or owner of an equitable
estate under a contract.
      WEEDS, GRASSES, and RANK VEGETATION.
         (a)   Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass, sorghum, alum (such as
allium), bur cucumber, and shattercane;
         (b)   RANK VEGETATION is the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of
annuals and perennial plants; and
         (c)   WEEDS do not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The State Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the town executives with respect to the definition of
exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, and crops.
(2005 Code, § 91.52) (Ord. G-09-09, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 91.053 OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING AND REMOVAL.
   All property owners, all occupants of single-family dwellings, and all
occupants of nonresidential properties within the corporate limits of the town
shall be required to remove, cut, dispose, and eliminate weeds, grasses, and
rank vegetation or other uncontrolled plant growth on their property. Weeds,
grasses, and rank vegetation shall not exceed eight inches in height on an area
of the property that is 10%, or more, of the unimproved areas of the property.
(2005 Code, § 91.53) (Ord. G-13-07, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.054 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated, and
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an employee,
officer, or Council member of the town shall file the complaint in all respects
as set out above.
(2005 Code, § 91.54) (Ord. G-09-09, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 91.055 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All notices of violations requiring a property owner or owners to cut
weeds and other rank vegetation shall be provided notice of said violation and
requirement to cut said weeds and other rank vegetation by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or an equivalent service permitted under the state
code.
   (B)   All notices of violations sent shall be mailed to the owner of record
of real property with a single owner or at least one owner of the real property
with multiple owners.
   (C)   All notices of violations sent shall be mailed to the last address of
the owner or owners as indicated in the records of the County Auditor on the
date the notice is mailed.
   (D)   (1)   If an initial notice of violation of this subchapter was
provided by certified mail or an equivalent service permitted under the state
code, a continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time
of the abatement instead of by certified mail or equivalent permitted notice.
      (2)   A continuous abatement notice serves as notice to the real property
owner or owners that each subsequent violation during the same year for which
the initial notice of the violation was provided may be abated by the town, or
its contractors.
(2005 Code, § 91.55) (Ord. G-12-11, passed 7-16-2012)
§ 91.056 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner, and/or the occupant of a single-family dwelling or
nonresidential property may appeal by delivering a written notice of objections
with the Clerk-Treasurer. Such appeal notice must be filed within five days
after the issuance of any notice, excluding the date of such notice. The five-
day period shall be tolled if the same ends on a weekend or a holiday, until
the next business day on which the Clerk-Treasurer’s office is open. An appeal
notice may be delivered in person to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office or by U.S.
certified mail, and will be deemed received on the date of in person delivery
or the postmark for U.S. certified mail.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner, and/or the occupant of a single-
family dwelling or nonresidential property, shall be heard by the Town Council
and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Town Council in attendance. Such
appeal may be heard at a regularly scheduled meeting or a special meeting.
(2005 Code, § 91.56) (Ord. G-09-09, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 91.057 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner, and/or the occupant of a single-family
dwelling or nonresidential property, fails to comply with the destruction order
within ten calendar days from issuance of notice, or fails to timely file a
notice of appeal, then the town executive may direct town employees or outside
contractors to remove the weeds, grasses, and rank vegetation.
(2005 Code, § 91.57) (Ord. G-09-09, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 91.058 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner, and the occupant of a single-family dwelling or
nonresidential property, shall be liable for all reasonable costs of removal of
weeds, grasses, and rank vegetation, together with the town’s reasonable
attorney fees, and costs of collection associated with recovering such costs or
penalties under this subchapter. If the town’s employees are employed to effect
removal and abatement, the reasonable hourly fees for such employees,
reasonable costs for equipment used, shall be recoverable costs. All sums
payable shall be certified by the Clerk-Treasurer and notice of the same shall
be provided by the town executive in the same manner as destructive orders in §
91.055.
   (B)   All sums payable shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer and shall be
deposited in a general fund, as compensation for expenses and costs incurred by
the town. Such payments shall be due and payable within seven days from the
issuance of the notice concerning the same.
(2005 Code, § 91.58) (Ord. G-09-09, passed 8-10-2009)
DISEASE CONTROL
§ 91.070 UNLICENSED CHILD CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town recognizes that if the County Board of Health has reason to
believe that a contagious and/or communicable disease and/or illness is present
in an unlicensed child care home, the town will not interfere with the County
Health Department in requiring any individual operating an unlicensed child
care home to cease all operations until the unlicensed child care home has been
properly cleaned, sanitized, and disinfected to eliminate the possibility of
spreading the disease, as provided by state law.
   (B)   The town will not interfere with the County Health Department in
requiring any individual operating an unlicensed child care home to hire
professionals, who are properly trained in the eradication of contagious and/or
communicable diseases, to clean, sanitize, and disinfect the entire premises of
the child care home if any child for whom care is provided at the home is found
to have any contagious and/or communicable disease or illness, as provided by
state law.
   (C)   The town will not interfere with the County Health Department in
requiring any individual operating an unlicensed childcare home to provide
proof of immunizations for each child for whom care is provided, as provided by
state and/or federal law.
   (D)   In the event that any individual and/or unlicensed child care home
fails to comply with an order of the County Health Department, as determined by
the County Health Department, the town will not interfere with the County
Health Department in issuing an order requiring the unlicensed child care home
to immediately cease all operations until the individual and/or unlicensed
child care home comes into compliance, as provided by state law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit, in any way, the
authority and powers granted to the County Health Department in I.C. 16-20-1-
1 et seq.
(Ord. G-09-04, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §§
91.001 through
91.004 may be fined no more than $100 for the first offense; and no more than
$250 for the second and each subsequent offense, and in addition on the second
or subsequent offense a law enforcement officer may confiscate any offending
instrument used in violating §§
91.001 through
91.004.
   (C)   (1)   For each day any person or entity shall be in violation of §§
91.030 through
91.035 after the five-day notice period, the violator shall be fined an amount
not less than $50 per day or not more than $500 per day.
      (2)   Furthermore, to the extent permitted by law, if the town causes the
abatement of any conditions in §§
91.030 through
91.037 and
91.050 through
91.058, the town may cause an amount, which is the sum of all penalties levied
and the costs of removal, abatement, or cleanup, together with reasonable
attorney fees and collection costs, to be certified to the County Auditor and
Treasurer as a charge against the taxes due and payable to the County
Treasurer, together with any penalty or other cost allowable through such
certification as a lien.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §
91.037 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues (in accordance with §
10.99 of the town’s code of ordinances).
(2005 Code, § 91.99) (Ord. G-06-13, passed 4-20-2006; Ord. G-16-06, passed 4-
18-2016)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
92.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation
   
92.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
92.10   Exemption
   
92.11   Administration enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(2005 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04,
92.05,
92.06,
92.07, or
92.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in the “familial status” definition in this
section.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (910 I.A.C.
2-3-2(14)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because
that individual is a transgendered (910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(2005 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
92.09 of this code, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination
in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1, and in §
92.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(2005 Code, § 92.03) (Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and
92.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this division (A), discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq. and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (A)(8)(c)3.c. above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(2005 Code, § 92.04) (Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance: for purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining
a dwelling; or secured by residential real estate; or
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(2005 Code, § 92.05) (Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(2005 Code, § 92.06) (Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.03, 92.04, 92.05 or 92.06 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 92.07) (Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be subject to
penalties as detailed in §
92.99.
(2005 Code, § 92.08) (Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3, the definition of
family is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 92.10 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(2005 Code, § 92.09) (Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 92.11 ADMINISTRATION ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town or the chief elected official’s
designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(2005 Code, § 92.10) (Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §
90.08(A) shall be fined according to local, state, and federal law; and if
bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not
more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be subject to
imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(2005 Code, § 92.99) (Ord. G-15-19, passed 10-5-2015)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Use and Care of Sidewalks
   
93.01   Parking in inclement weather
   
93.02   Bicycles on sidewalks
   
93.03   Horses or ponies on sidewalks
   
93.04   Foliage; responsibility
Street Number Signs
   
93.15   Requirement to post 911 address
   
93.16   Sign requirements
   
93.17   Donated street number signs
   
93.18   Notification of violation
 
   
93.99   Penalty
USE AND CARE OF SIDEWALKS
§ 93.01 PARKING IN INCLEMENT WEATHER.
   During inclement weather, which shall include, but not be limited to, snow,
freezing rain, and icy conditions, during times when the road requires
treatment or the use of snowplows, all vehicles shall be parked off the street,
preferably in a driveway. The only streets which do not have driveways are High
Street and Walnut Street; therefore, the vehicles owned by residents of these
streets shall be excepted from this section until or as long as driveways or
alternative parking are not available. Whoever violates any provision in this
section shall be towed at the owner’s expense.
(2005 Code, § 93.01) (Ord. G-98-06, passed 3-17-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is declared public policy of the town that sidewalks should be used
primarily for pedestrian traffic. Bicycles shall be permitted on the sidewalks
on the condition that their use does not inhibit regular pedestrian traffic.
Discretion shall be used by the Town Marshal and/or his or her deputies/
reserves as to whether the use of bicycles is inhibiting the pedestrian
traffic.
(2005 Code, § 93.02) (Ord. G-94-11, passed 6-20-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 HORSES OR PONIES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride, walk, or lead a horse or pony on any sidewalk.
(2005 Code, § 93.03) (Ord. G-94-11, passed 6-20-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 FOLIAGE; RESPONSIBILITY.
   Property owners who possess property adjacent to a sidewalk shall be
responsible for any foliage that may inhibit the path of any person using a
sidewalk.
(2005 Code, § 93.04) (Ord. G-94-11, passed 6-20-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
STREET NUMBER SIGNS
§ 93.15 REQUIREMENT TO POST 911 ADDRESS.
   All owners and/or occupants of commercial and/or residential property
located within the corporate limits of the town are required to conspicuously
post their 911 address so as to be easily visible from the street or road on
which the home or other structure faces.
(2005 Code, § 93.15) (Ord. G-04-40, passed 12-16-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The street number sign shall be in standard Arabic numerals at least four
inches in height and shall be posted either on the structure or improvement
itself or on a signpost or mailbox located at the edge of the roadway. The
numerals shall be of a color in contrast to the background so as to be easily
read.
(2005 Code, § 93.16) (Ord. G-04-40, passed 12-16-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 DONATED STREET NUMBER SIGNS.
   If a resident of the town cannot afford to purchase and/or post the required
street number sign on his or her property, the resident may inquire at the Town
Hall as to whether any donated street number signs are available. If so, and if
the Clerk-Treasurer determines that the purchase and posting of a street number
sign would constitute a financial hardship for that resident, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall present the resident with a voucher which may be redeemed at
the Georgetown Township Volunteer Fire Department for a street number sign at
no charge.
(2005 Code, § 93.17) (Ord. G-04-40, passed 12-16-2004)
§ 93.18 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be in violation of this subchapter shall receive written
notification of the violation(s). The notice shall be served by the Town
Marshal Department or via U.S. certified mail, return receipt requested. Any
person found to be in violation of this subchapter shall have 30 days from the
date of written notification to correct any violation(s).
(2005 Code, § 93.18) (Ord. G-04-40, passed 12-16-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
93.02 through
93.04 shall be fined a sum of not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each
offense.
   (C)   Any person who fails to correct the violation(s) of §
93.18 within the 30-day period may be subject to a fine of $25 per day for each
violation and/or further legal action. Each day a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. All fines shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at
Town Hall.
(2005 Code, § 93.99) (Ord. G-94-11, passed 6-20-1994; Ord. G-04-40, passed 12-
16-2004)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Town Parks
   
94.01   Use of grounds and facilities; requirements
   
94.02   Prohibited acts
   
94.03   Picnic areas and use
   
94.04   Other regulations
Swimming Pools
   
94.15   State Swimming Pool Code adopted
   
94.16   Enforcement Officer
 
   
94.99   Penalty
TOWN PARKS
§ 94.01 USE OF GROUNDS AND FACILITIES; REQUIREMENTS.
   Each person, firm, or corporation using public parks and grounds shall clean
up all debris, extinguish all fires when fires are permitted, and leave the
premises in good order and the facilities in a neat and sanitary condition.
(2005 Code, § 94.01) (Ord. G-94-04, passed 5-16-1994)
§ 94.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be not be permitted for any person, firm, or corporation using the
parks to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
   (A)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace, or
remove any building, bridge, table, bench, fireplace, railing, paving or paving
material, water line or other public utility or part or appurtenance thereof,
sign, notice, or placard, whether temporary or permanent, monument, stake,
post, or other boundary marker or other structure or piece of equipment,
facility, or park property, or appurtenance whatsoever, either real or
personal;
   (B)   Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay, or other body of water in or
adjacent to any park or tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into
those waters; any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or
may result in the pollution of the waters;
   (C)   Bring in or dump, deposit, or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes,
paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse, or other trash. No
refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park or
left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper
receptacles where the receptacles are provided. Where receptacles are not
provided, all the rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the
person or persons responsible for its presence and properly disposed of
elsewhere;
   (D)   Disturb the peace or use any profane or obscene language;
   (E)   Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act;
   (F)   Commit any assault, battery, or engage in fighting;
   (G)   Carry, possess, or drink any alcoholic beverage;
   (H)   Carry or possess any glass bottles;
   (I)   Violate any rules for the use of any park, including closing hours as
posted in the park, those rules being set forth by the Town Council. The parks
shall be open between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., except in the
event of a special activity approved by the Town Council;
   (J)   Prevent any person from using any park or any of its facilities, or
interfere with its use in compliance with this subchapter and the rules
applicable to that use; or
   (K)   Swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to any
park, except in those waters and at those places as are provided therefor, and
in compliance with the regulations as are herein set forth or may be hereafter
adopted.
(2005 Code, § 94.02) (Ord. G-94-04, passed 5-16-1994) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 PICNIC AREAS AND USE.
   (A)   Attendants shall have the authority to regulate the activities in all
park areas when necessary to prevent congestion and to secure the maximum use
for the comfort and convenience of any and all persons using the park. Visitors
shall comply with any directions given to achieve this end.
   (B)   No person in a park shall use any portion of the picnic area or any of
the buildings or structures therein for the purpose of holding picnics to the
exclusion of other persons except by reservation permit available at Town Hall,
nor shall any person use the area and facilities for an unreasonable period of
time if the facilities are crowded.
(2005 Code, § 94.03) (Ord. G-94-04, passed 5-16-1994; Ord. G-05-20, passed 7-
21-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   The following provisions shall not apply to any properly authorized
government official in pursuit of any official duty.
   (A)   Special activities. It shall not be permitted to fly model airplanes
or engage in special activities, including golf practice, ice skating, games,
and picnics, except at locations specifically designated for those activities
by the Town Council. Areas for those activities may be reserved by groups for
use at specified times.
   (B)   Automobiles.
      (1)   It shall not be permitted to drive or park any automobile or motor
vehicle in any park, except on a street, driveway, parking lot, or designated
area. It shall not be permitted to park or leave any vehicle in any place other
than one established for that purpose.
      (2)   All vehicles shall observe a five mph speed limit.
   (C)   Animals.
      (1)   It shall not be permitted to bring any dangerous animal into any
park or allow any dog or cat to run at large.
      (2)   It shall not be permitted to ride a horse in any park, except on,
or immediately alongside, existing roadways.
      (3)   It shall not be permitted to hunt or disturb wildlife in any park.
   (D)   Sales. It shall not be permitted for any person other than employees
or officials of the town or individuals acting on behalf of the town to vend,
sell, peddle, or offer for sale any commodity or article within the park,
except with permission of the Town Council.
   (E)   Signs. It shall not be permitted for anyone to paste, glue, tack, or
otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement, or inscription. It shall not
be permitted for any person to erect or cause to be erected any sign on any
public lands or highways adjacent to a park.
(2005 Code, § 94.04) (Ord. G-94-04, passed 5-16-1994) Penalty, see §
94.99
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 94.15 STATE SWIMMING POOL CODE ADOPTED.
   The State Swimming Pool Code, set forth at 675 I.A.C. 20-4-1 et seq.,
attached to Ord. G-04-14 as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference, is
hereby adopted as the swimming pool code for the town and may be cited as such.
(2005 Code, § 94.15) (Ord. G-04-14, passed 5-20-2004)
§ 94.16 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby designated as the Enforcement
Officer for the swimming pool code for the town.
(2005 Code, § 94.16) (Ord. G-04-14, passed 5-20-2004)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
94.01 through
94.04 shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $500.
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
94.15 and
94.16 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500 for
each violation. Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(2005 Code, § 94.99) (Ord. G-94-04, passed 5-16-1994; Ord. G-04-14, passed 5-
20-2004)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   RESERVED
      
111.   FOOD AND BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS; PLACES OF AMUSEMENT
      
113.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND CANVASSERS
      
114.   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING
      
115.   BED AND BREAKFASTS; FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
116.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: RESERVED
CHAPTER 111: FOOD AND BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Food Regulations
   
111.01   Applicability; administration
   
111.02   Interpretation
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Registration and licensing
   
111.05   Operational requirements and inspections
   
111.06   License fees
   
111.07   Enforcement
Alcoholic Beverages
   
111.20   Retail permits
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
      Mobile food vendors, see
Chapter 116
FOOD REGULATIONS
§ 111.01 APPLICABILITY; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply within the incorporated areas of the town.
   (B)   The administration and enforcement of this subchapter is vested in:
      (1)   The County Health Board (Health Board) appointed pursuant to I.C.
16-20-2-6, and all successor statutes that may be enacted;
      (2)   The County Health Officer appointed pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-16,
and all successor statutes that may be enacted; and
      (3)   The County Health Department (Department) created and established
pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-2 and all successor statutes that may be enacted.
(2005 Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 2000-G-00-14, passed 11-28-2000)
§ 111.02 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this subchapter, the masculine form
shall mean and apply to the feminine, and the singular form shall mean and
apply to the plural.
(2005 Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 2000-G-00-14, passed 11-28-2000)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department, being an agency of local
government, created and acting pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-20 et
seq., and all successor statutes that may be enacted, and its duly authorized
employees and representatives.
   HEALTH BOARD. The County Board of Health duly constituted and acting
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-20 et seq., and all successor statutes
that may be enacted, and its duly authorized representatives.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer duly appointed by the County Board
of Health and acting pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-20 et seq., and all
successor statutes that may be enacted, and his or her duly authorized
representatives.
   MOBILE RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail food establishment capable of
being readily moved from location to location, or one without a fixed location.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   An operation that:
         (a)   Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise provides
food for human consumption, such as:
            1.   A restaurant;
            2.   Satellite or catered feeding operation;
            3.   A catering operation, if the operation provides food directly
to a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
            4.   A market;
            5.   A grocery store;
            6.   A convenience store;
            7.   A vending location;
            8.   A conveyance used to transport people;
            9.   An institution; or
            10.   A food bank.
         (b)   Relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carriers.
      (2)   For purposes of this subchapter, the term includes the following:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as a transportation vehicle or
a central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location, unless the vending or feeding location is permitted
(licensed) by proper authority;
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary, or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off
the premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food; and
         (c)   A bed and breakfast establishment as defined and regulated under
I.C. 16-41-13-1 et seq. and all successor statutes that may be enacted.
   TEMPORARY RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail food establishment which
shall operate for a period of time not to exceed 14 days.
(2005 Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 2000-G-00-14, passed 11-28-2000)
§ 111.04 REGISTRATION AND LICENSING.
   (A)   Except as provided by applicable law, rule, or regulation, or except
as expressly provided by this subchapter, no person, firm, or corporation shall
operate or continue to operate a retail food establishment in the town
(including mobile and temporary establishments) without first having registered
with and obtained a license from the Health Department to do so. Applications
for a retail food establishment license shall be submitted on forms provided by
the Health Department.
   (B)   No license to operate a retail food establishment shall be issued
except after an inspection of the proposed establishment by the Health Officer
(or his or her designee) and a finding that same conforms with the minimum
requirements therefor as established by applicable law and the rules of the
State Department of Health. To allow for verification that the proposed retail
food establishment is constructed, equipped, and otherwise meets the
requirements of applicable law, rule, and regulation, an application for a new
license shall be submitted to the Health Department at least 30 days prior to
the anticipated date for commencement of operations.
   (C)   Licenses for nontemporary retail food establishments shall expire on
June 30 following the date of issuance. Licenses for temporary retail food
establishments shall expire not later than the fourteenth day following the
date of issuance.
   (D)   A separate license is required for each retail food establishment
owned and/or operated by an applicant, and a license issued by the Health
Department is not transferable. Upon issuance, a license shall be prominently
displayed upon the premises of the retail food establishment.
   (E)   No license under this subchapter shall be required of an organization
which is exempt from the application of I.C. 16-18-2-137, and all successor
statutes that may be enacted, and no fee shall be collected pursuant to §
111.06. However, the remaining provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the
retail food establishment operated by the organization.
(2005 Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 2000-G-00-14, passed 11-28-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All retail food establishments shall be maintained and operated in
accordance with applicable provisions of I.C. Title 16, and all successor
statutes that may be enacted, together with those rules and regulations which
may be promulgated, from time to time, by the State Department of Health and
the County Health Department, all of which code provisions, rules, and
regulations are incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.
   (B)   All retail food establishments shall be subject to inspection by the
Health Officer, from time to time, to assure compliance with this subchapter
and applicable law, rule, and regulation. The operator of a retail food
establishment shall, upon request, permit access to all parts thereof and allow
the copying of all records relative to the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   Upon finding a violation of this section, including the laws, rules,
and regulations made a part hereof by reference, the Health Officer shall
proceed in accordance with the requirements of I.C. 16-42-5-25, and all
successor statutes that may be enacted; provided, upon finding a violation by
the holder of a license for a temporary retail food establishment, the Health
Officer may order immediate corrective action, and upon the failure to comply
with the order in a timely manner, the Health Officer may summarily revoke the
temporary license and forbid the further sale or serving of food pursuant to
the temporary license.
(2005 Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 2000-G-00-14, passed 11-28-2000)
§ 111.06 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The following fees shall be payable by the applicant for a
retail food establishment license:
         (a)   For a temporary retail food establishment license, the sum of $5
per day of operation, but not to exceed the sum of $25;
         (b)   For a restaurant, tavern, retail food store, or similar retail
food establishment, the sum of $75; and
         (c)   For all other retail food establishments, the sum of $50.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing fees, the County Health Department
shall collect the printing costs of plan review packets if required in
connection with new or remodeled retail food establishments.
   (B)   For licenses which upon initial issuance will expire in fewer than 180
days from the date thereof, the applicant shall pay one-half of the fee set
forth in divisions (A)(1)(b) and (A)(1)(c) above.
(2005 Code, § 111.06) (Ord. 2000-G-00-14, passed 11-28-2000)
§ 111.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, and except in those
instances of a violation of a statute, rule, or regulation having an
established penalty or remedy therefor, enforcement of this subchapter as
against a person violating the terms and provisions of same shall be pursuant
to state law. An action to enforce this subchapter shall be brought in the name
of the Health Officer or the Health Board, as appropriate.
(2005 Code, § 111.07) (Ord. 2000-G-00-14, passed 11-28-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 111.20 RETAIL PERMITS.
   The Council of the town hereby consents that liquor retailers permits be
issued to applicants, otherwise duly qualified under I.C. 7.1-3-1 et seq.
(2005 Code, § 111.20) (Ord. G-99-04, passed 2-26-1999)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Upon proof by a preponderance of the evidence of a violation of
§§
111.01 through
111.07, judgment shall be entered against the defendant for a sum of not less
than $100 for each violation. A separate violation of §§
111.01 through
111.07 shall be deemed to occur for each day that a person shall be in
violation of the terms and provisions thereof.
      (2)   In addition to the remedy set forth in division (B)(1) above, an
action may be brought for mandatory or injunctive relief as against any person
violating the terms and provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.07, which action shall be brought in the name of the Health Officer or
Health Board, as appropriate.
      (3)   To the extent permitted by law and this subchapter, an action under
division (B)(1) of this section may be joined with an action under division (B)
(2) above, and to any judgment in favor of the Health Officer and/or Health
Board shall be added costs of the action, reasonable attorney fees, and
expenses incurred by the Department in the enforcement of §§
111.01 through
111.07.
      (4)   In all actions under §
111.07 and this division (B), the Health Board and/or the Health Officer shall
be represented by the attorney retained by the Health Board pursuant to I.C.
16-20-1-26 and all successor statutes that may be enacted.
(2005 Code, § 111.99) (Ord. 2000-G-00-14, passed 11-28-2000)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS; PLACES OF AMUSEMENT
Section
Amusement Devices
   
112.01   Persons subject to licensing
   
112.02   License fee; disclosure
Hours of Operation
   
112.15   Daily hours
   
112.16   Sundays and holidays
 
   
112.99   Penalty
AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 112.01 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSING.
   Any operator who charges a fee for the use of amusement machines, pinball
machines, pool tables, and jukeboxes shall be subject to the licensing
provisions of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 112.01) (Ord. G-79-03, passed 3-12-1979) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 LICENSE FEE; DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   All operators shall obtain a license from the Town Council before
installing the amusement machines, pinball machines, pool tables, and
jukeboxes.
   (B)   The licenses shall be granted by the Town Council on application and
the payment of an annual fee of $25 per proposed establishment.
   (C)   The fee shall be due annually by January 15 for the calendar year.
(2005 Code, § 112.02) (Ord. G-05-18, passed 7-21-2005) Penalty, see §
112.99
HOURS OF OPERATION
§ 112.15 DAILY HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any pool hall, skating rink, or pawn shop
within the town limits of the town between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m, on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of each week. It shall further
be unlawful to operate such a business between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00
a.m. on Saturday and 2:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. on Sunday. Friday hours may be
from 8:00 a.m. through midnight.
(2005 Code, § 112.15) (Ord. G-05-18, passed 7-21-2005) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
   It shall also be unlawful to keep any pool hall, skating rink, or pawn shop
open for business within the town limits on any Sunday, Thanksgiving Day,
Fourth of July, Christmas, or New Year’s Day except during those hours stated
in §
112.15. Each holiday shall be treated as a Sunday for hours of operation
purposes.
(2005 Code, § 112.16) (Ord. G-05-18, passed 7-21-2005) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who operates amusement machines,
pinball machines, pool tables, and jukeboxes, without first obtaining a
license, shall be deemed in violation of §§
112.01 and
112.02 and shall be subject to a fine of not less than $200 and not more than
$500.
(2005 Code, § 112.99) (Ord. G-79-03, passed 3-12-1979)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND CANVASSERS
Section
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Consent of occupant; license
   
113.03   Applications
   
113.04   Applicant’s required information
   
113.05   Appeal
   
113.06   Prohibited locations
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 LICENCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article, or thing without
having first secured a license therefor.
(2005 Code, § 113.01) (Ord. G-08-11, passed 4-15-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 CONSENT OF OCCUPANT; LICENSE.
   It shall also be unlawful for any person to engage in business as canvasser
or solicitor, calling at residences without previous consent of the occupant
for the purpose of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions, or business of any
kind, or seeking for information or donations without having first secured a
license.
(2005 Code, § 113.02) (Ord. G-08-11, passed 4-15-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   All applications for peddling, soliciting, and canvassing shall be
made to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall, in his or her discretion, grant or deny any
application submitted to him or her. The denial of an application for a license
and reason or reasons therefor shall be in writing, signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer, and dated.
(2005 Code, § 113.03) (Ord. G-12-10, passed 7-16-2012)
§ 113.04 APPLICANT’S REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   The applicant shall give his or her complete identification, his or
her signature, the name of his or her employer, the nature of the product or
services in which he or she is interested, the names of the manufacturers of
such products, or of the organization he or she is representing, a complete
copy of sales tax information, proof of general liability insurance, and the
proposed method of operation in the town.
   (B)   The applicant shall state the description and the number of vehicles,
if any, intended to be operated, in peddling, soliciting, or canvassing in the
town.
(Ord. G-08-11, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 113.05 APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event that an application for a license to peddle, solicit, or
canvass is denied by the Clerk-Treasurer, the applicant for the license who was
denied has 30 days in which to, in writing, appeal said denial to the Town
Council.
   (B)   The Town Council shall hear any and all appeals in the event that a
license to peddle, solicit, or canvass is denied and shall have the final
decision on the denial of the issuance of a license.
(Ord. G-12-10, passed 7-16-2012)
§ 113.06 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   No peddlers shall ply his or her vocation on any street, sidewalk, park,
parkway, or in any other public place in the town unless his or her peddler’s
license specifies that peddling in such public place is permitted thereunder.
(2005 Code, § 113.04) (Ord. G-08-11, passed 4-15-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for soliciting, peddling and/or canvassing without a license
issued by the town are as follows:
      (1)   First offense is a fine of $250;
      (2)   Second offense is a fine of $1,000; or
      (3)   Third offense is a fine of $2,500.
   (B)   Each offense’s fine must be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office
within ten days of being issued to the offender. Failure to pay the fine within
the allotted ten days will result in prosecution of the offender in the County
Courts. Offender will be held responsible for the unpaid fine amount and all
Court costs to pursue the prosecution of the action in the County Courts,
including, but not limited to, attorney’s fees.
(Ord. G-08-11, passed 4-15-2008)
CHAPTER 114: TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Sanitary operation of tattoo parlors
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Operator training responsibilities
   
114.04   Operator responsibilities
   
114.05   Operator policies
   
114.06   Tattoo artist and body piercer minimum training and certification
requirements
   
114.07   Patron records
Sanitary Operation Regulations
   
114.20   Illness
   
114.21   Handwashing
   
114.22   Personal protective equipment
   
114.23   Tattooing equipment
   
114.24   Needles
   
114.25   Reusable equipment
   
114.26   Dyes or pigments
   
114.27   Work environment
   
114.28   Infectious waste containment
   
114.29   Treatment and transport of infectious waste
Administration and Enforcement
   
114.40   Permits; licenses
   
114.41   Inspections
   
114.42   Procedures when violations are noted
   
114.43   Permit or license suspension/revocation
   
114.44   Other permit or license revocation, suspension, and immediate closure
orders
   
114.45   Hearing
   
114.46   Appeal
   
114.47   Enforcement
   
114.48   Violations
   
114.49   Prohibited acts
   
114.50   Injunction
   
114.51   Expense
   
114.52   Cumulative
   
114.53   Effective date
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 SANITARY OPERATION OF TATTOO PARLORS.
   All places, individuals, and businesses that offer to affix any type of
permanent tattoo or body piercing to a person shall be regulated by this
chapter and shall maintain the premises in which tattoos or body piercings are
performed and equipment used in the tattoo or body piercing process in a
sanitary manner.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOOD. Human blood.
   BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS. Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These PATHOGENS include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   HBV: hepatitis B virus;
      (2)   HCV; hepatitis C virus; and
      (3)   HIV: human immunodeficiency virus.
   BODY PIERCER. Any person who performs body piercing on an individual.
   BODY PIERCING. The perforation of any human body part other than earlobe for
the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration or for some other
nonmedical purpose.
   CLEANED. Removal of all visible dust, soil, or any other foreign material.
   CONTAMINATED. The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
OPIM (other potentially infectious materials) on an item or surface.
   DECONTAMINATED. The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate,
or destroy bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item which does not require
sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting
infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling,
use, or disposal.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   FACILITY. A tattoo parlor or a body piercing facility, or both, which is any
room or space that is mobile or stationary where tattooing or body piercing, or
both, is provided or where the business of tattooing or body piercing, or both,
is conducted.
   HBV. The hepatitis B virus.
   HCV. The hepatitis C virus.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed Health Officer as set forth in I.A.C. 16-
20-2-16. The County Health Officer or designee shall be designated as the
official in charge of enforcing this chapter. The Health Officer may designate
a representative in the Health Department to perform those duties and
responsibilities of the Health Officer.
   HIGH LEVEL DISINFECTION. A process that destroys all micro-organisms, with
the exception of high numbers of bacterial spores.
   HIV. The human immunodeficiency virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Waste that epidemiologic evidence indicates is capable of
transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes, but
is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps;
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biologicals,
and infectious agent stock;
      (3)   Pathological waste;
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form;
      (5)   Carcasses, body parts, blood, and body fluids in liquid and semi-
liquid form, and bedding of laboratory animals; and/or
      (6)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   INTERMEDIATE LEVEL DISINFECTION. A process that inactivates, but does not
necessarily kill, bacterial spores in the following:
      (1)   Mycobacterium tuberculosis;
      (2)   Vegetative bacteria;
      (3)   Most viruses; and/or
      (4)   Most fungi.
   MOBILE FACILITY. A tattoo parlor or a body piercing facility, or both, which
is any moveable room or space where tattooing or body piercing, or both, is
provided or where the business of tattooing or body piercing, or both, is
conducted.
   OPERATOR. Any person who controls, operates, manages, or owns any facility.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS or OPIM. The following:
      (1)   Human body fluids as follows:
         (a)   Semen;
         (b)   Vaginal secretions;
         (c)   Cerebrospinal fluid;
         (d)   Synovial fluid;
         (e)   Pleural fluid;
         (f)   Pericardial fluid;
         (g)   Peritoneal fluid;
         (h)   Amniotic fluid;
         (i)   Saliva in dental procedures;
         (j)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood; and
         (k)   All body fluids where it is difficult or impossible to
differentiate between body fluids.
      (2)   Any unfixed tissue or organ, other than intact skin, from a human,
living or dead; and
      (3)   HIV-containing cell or tissue cultures, and HIV- or HBV-containing
culture medium or other solutions; and blood, organs, or other tissues from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
   PARENTERAL. Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needle sticks, human bites, cuts, or abrasions.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   SECURE AREA. An area that is designated and maintained to prevent the entry
of unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS. Blood, blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE. The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endospores.
   STORE. The containment of infectious waste in such a manner as not to
constitute collection, treatment, transport, or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol, or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other instruments;
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure, or symbol done by scarring upon
or under the skin; or
      (3)   Any piercing of the mucous membranes or the skin through which
needles or other items are inserted for temporary or permanent placement upon a
person.
   TATTOO ARTIST. Any person who provides a tattoo to an individual or who
performs any type of piercing of the mucus membranes or the skin through which
needles or other objects are inserted for temporary or permanent placement.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, HCV, and other bloodborne pathogens.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 114.03 OPERATOR TRAINING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   An individual or entity that is an operator shall comply with the following
training responsibilities:
   (A)   Ensure that the training described in the State Occupational Safety
and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29
C.F.R. § 1910.1030) is provided to all tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility, or anyone acting on behalf of the facility, who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is provided
to all tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone employed by the facility, or
anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably anticipated risk
for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM; and
   (C)   Ensure that a record of training described in divisions (A) and (B)
above is maintained, as required under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030) of an individual’s participation in the training that is provided.
The record shall be made available to the Department for inspection upon
request.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The operator shall ensure that tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility, or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood are provided personal protective equipment and expendables
needed to implement the precautions required by this rule and the State
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard
(as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030).
   (B)   The operator shall require tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility, or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood to provide evidence of compliance with the universal
precautions education requirements contained in §
114.06 of this code.
   (C)   The operator shall display a description of compliance with the
requirements contained in division (D) below.
   (D)   The operator shall display written materials prepared or approved by
the Department explaining universal precautions and patrons’ rights under this
rule. These materials shall include information on how to report violations of
universal precautions and shall include information regarding the Department’s
duties to investigate.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 OPERATOR POLICIES.
   The operator shall develop a written policy in compliance with this rule and
the requirements of the State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s
Bloodborne Pathogen Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030) that:
   (A)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing tattooing or
body piercing and any activity or duty that includes any reasonably anticipated
skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Requires disinfection or sterilization of contaminated reusable items;
   (C)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste;
   (D)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if warranted,
for failure to use universal precautions and/or handle infectious waste safely;
and
   (E)   Prohibiting of medical procedures; tongue splitting, tattoo removal,
and uses of anesthesia.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 TATTOO ARTIST AND BODY PIERCER MINIMUM TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone employed by the facility,
and anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably anticipated
risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM
shall complete the training program that is required under the requirements of
the State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogen
Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. 1910.1030). The programs under this section
shall be as follows: A bloodborne pathogen training session provided by the
operator meeting the requirements under the State Occupational Safety and
Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030); and any bloodborne pathogen continuing education program accredited
by a health care licensing entity.
   (B)   All tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone employed by the facility,
and anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably anticipated
risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM
must be trained in the facility’s policies on the handling of infectious waste.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 PATRON RECORDS.
   (A)   Records. Records of each patron shall be maintained for two years. The
record shall include the following:
      (1)   Patron’s name;
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   Age: age must be verified by two items of identification, one of
which must be a valid government issued identification;
      (4)   Date of the tattoo or body piercing;
      (5)   Design of the tattoo or body piercing;
      (6)   Location of the tattoo or body piercing on the patron’s body;
      (7)   The name of the tattoo artist or body piercer who performed the
work; and
      (8)   Jewelry or other decoration used.
   (B)   Tattooing and body piercing of minors prohibited. No person shall
tattoo any person under the age of 18 years, except in the presence of, and
with the written permission of, a properly identified parent or legal guardian
of such person. Under no circumstances shall any person tattoo or body pierce a
person under the age of 16. A person providing tattoo or body piercing services
shall conspicuously post a notice stating that it is illegal to tattoo or body
pierce any person under the age of 18 without the parent or legal guardian’s
consent and without the parent or legal guardian present and that it is illegal
to ever tattoo or body pierce any person under the age of 16 years old.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
SANITARY OPERATION REGULATIONS
§ 114.20 ILLNESS.
   Tattoo artists or body piercers who are experiencing symptoms of acute
disease that include, but are not limited to, the following shall refrain from
providing tattoos or body piercing: diarrhea; vomiting; fever; rash; productive
cough; jaundice; or draining (or open) skin infections; boils; impetigo; or
scabies.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 HANDWASHING.
   (A)   Handwashing facilities shall be readily accessible in the each work
station where tattooing or body piercing is provided.
   (B)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately before
putting on gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal protective
equipment.
   (C)   Only single use towels shall be used.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.22 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Appropriate personal protective equipment shall be worn as follows.
   (A)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM.
   (B)   Masks, in combination with eye protection devices such as goggles or
glasses with a solid side shield or chin length face shield, shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter, or droplets of blood or OPIM may be
generated and eye, nose, or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   (1)   Disposable gloves, such as surgical or examination type, shall
be worn during the tattooing or body piercing process.
      (2)   Gloves shall be changed and properly disposed of each time there is
an interruption in the application of the tattoo or body piercing, when the
gloves become torn or punctured, or whenever the ability to function as a
barrier is compromised.
      (3)   Disposable gloves shall not be reused.
   (D)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces and
equipment.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.23 TATTOOING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Only single use razors shall be used to shave the area to be tattooed.
   (B)   All stencils shall be property disposed of after a single use.
   (C)   If the design is drawn directly onto the skin, it shall be applied
with a single use article only.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.24 NEEDLES.
   (A)   Needles shall be individually packaged and sterilized prior to use.
   (B)   Needles shall be single use only.
   (C)   Needles shall be discarded in sharps containers immediately after use.
   (D)   Contaminated needles shall not be bent or broken or otherwise
manipulated by hand.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.25 REUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Heating procedures capable of sterilization must be used when heat
stable, nondisposable equipment is sterilized.
   (B)   Equipment that is to be sterilized shall be put in single-use
packaging.
   (C)   Records must be maintained to document the following:
      (1)   Duration of sterilization technique;
      (2)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a biological
indicator, is performed monthly; and
      (3)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner’s manual and
proof is available that the owner’s manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
   (D)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in a
manner that requires any person to reach by hand into the containers where
these sharp items have been placed.
   (E)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be:
      (1)   Placed in puncture-resistant containers which are labeled with the
biohazard symbol and leakproof on both sides and bottom; and
      (2)   Stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into the
container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to sterilization.
   (F)   Contaminated reusable equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior to
sterilization or disinfection.
   (G)   Any reusable contaminated equipment that comes into direct contact, or
is likely to come into direct contract, with an instrument that penetrates the
skin other than a piercing gun shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized
prior to use.
   (H)   All sterilized equipment shall not be removed from wrappers or
sterilizer packaging until immediately prior to use.
   (I)   Any reusable equipment that comes into contact with mucus membranes
shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized prior to use.
   (J)   Piercing guns shall be cleaned and undergo, at a minimum, high level
disinfection after each use and whenever visibly contaminated.
   (K)   All reusable equipment that has contact with intact skin shall
undergo, at a minimum, intermediate level disinfection.
   (L)   All other equipment used during the tattooing or body piercing
procedure shall be single use, including corks.
   (M)   All body piercers and tattoo artists shall comply with all other
equipment manufacturer’s recommendations.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.26 DYES OR PIGMENTS.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments in tattooing shall be from professional suppliers
specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by tattoo artists, only non-
toxic sterile materials shall be used. Single use or individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean, single-use containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single use or
individual containers shall be discarded along with the container.
   (D)   Any object placed under the skin shall be sterile.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.27 WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   No tattooing or body piercing shall be conducted in any room used as
living quarters or in any room that opens directly into living or sleeping
quarters. All workstations shall be at least ten feet by ten feet and have
working sink area to prevent cross-contamination.
   (B)   All facilities shall have a dry storage and sterilization room
separate from work areas and not accessible by public. Each sterilization room
shall have adequate room for proper sterilization technique that shall include
separation of contaminated and sterilized storage area.
   (C)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where tattooing or body
piercing is being conducted. This exclusion does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police officers;
      (2)   Guide dogs accompanying the following:
         (a)   Blind persons;
         (b)   Partially blind persons;
         (c)   Physically disabled persons;
         (d)   Guide dog trainers; and/or
         (e)   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (D)   Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics, or handling contact
lenses shall not be allowed in work areas where there is a likelihood of
exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   Food and drink shall not be kept in areas where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (F)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
disinfected after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (G)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization, that
have been contaminated by blood, shall be cleaned and disinfected.
   (H)   All work surfaces shall be:
      (1)   Nonabsorbent;
      (2)   Easily cleanable;
      (3)   Smooth; and
      (4)   Free of breaks, open seams, cracks, chips, pits, and similar
imperfections.
   (I)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   A hospital grade, tuberculocidal Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; or
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite, 0.5% concentration, by volume (common
household bleach is 10% concentration in water); the solution shall be dated
and shall not be used if it is more than 24 hours old.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.28 INFECTIOUS WASTE CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   Contaminated disposable needles or instruments shall be stored in
leak-resistant, puncture-resistant containers, tightly sealed to prevent
expulsion, labeled with the biohazard symbol, and effectively treated in
accordance with this rule prior to being stored in an unsecured area and sent
for final disposal.
   (B)   Infectious wastes that are contaminated sharps or objects that could
potentially become contaminated sharps shall be placed in containers that shall
be:
      (1)   Impervious to moisture;
      (2)   Of sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
      (3)   Secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
      (4)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
      (5)   Effectively treated in accordance with this rule prior to being
placed in an unsecured area and sent for final disposal.
   (C)   If infectious waste is stored prior to final disposal, all persons
subject to this rule shall store infectious waste in a secure area that:
      (1)   Is locked or otherwise secured to eliminate access by or exposure
to the general public;
      (2)   Affords protection from adverse environmental conditions and
vermin; and
      (3)   Has a prominently displayed biohazard symbol.
   (D)   Infectious waste shall be stored in a manner that preserves the
integrity of the container and is not conducive to rapid microbial growth and
putrefaction.
   (E)   Disinfect reusable containers for infectious waste each time that they
are emptied unless the surfaces of the reusable containers have been protected
from contamination by disposable liners, bags, or other devices that are
removed with the infectious waste.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.29 TREATMENT AND TRANSPORT OF INFECTIOUS WASTE.
   (A)   All operators shall ensure that infectious waste is either treated on-
site in accordance with this rule or transported off-site for treatment in
accordance with this rule.
   (B)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities of
infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste
involved, and is earned out in a manner consistent with this rule. Effective
treatment may include:
      (1)   Incineration in an incinerator designed to accommodate infectious
waste;
      (2)   Steam sterilization;
      (3)   Chemical disinfection under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
      (4)   Thermal inactivation;
      (5)   Irradiation; or
      (6)   Discharge in a sanitary sewer or septic system that is properly
installed and operating in accordance with state and local laws.
   (C)   All persons subject to this rule shall:
      (1)   Transport infectious waste in a manner that reasonably protects
waste haulers and the public from contracting a dangerous communicable disease;
and
      (2)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this rule
before it is compacted.
   (D)   The operator shall ensure that infectious waste, effectively treated
or not, is transported off-site in compliance with 410 I.A.C. 1-3.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 114.40 PERMITS; LICENSES.
   (A)   Business. Each tattoo/body piercing facility operation shall obtain a
permit from the County Health Department. The permit shall provide the name and
address of the owner of the business and the name and address of each tattoo
artist and body piercer employed at each location. The cost for this permit
shall be $300 and shall not be transferable. The permit expires on December 31
of each year. Should an establishment fail to obtain the permit prior to the
opening of a tattoo and/or body piercing facility or should any permittee fail
to renew his or her permit on or before the expiration date of December 31,
then said fee shall be annual plus 50% of the annual fee set forth above for
the tattoo and/or body piercing facility. Any holder of a permit shall be
subject to inspection as set forth herein. The County Health Department shall
provide the appropriate forms for this permit. Said permit shall be posted at
the facility in the area where the tattoo or body piercing services are
performed and shall be clearly visible to the public. Said permit will only
license the permanent establishment whose address appears on the permit.
Businesses wanting to conduct a tattoo event off-site must obtain a temporary
event permit.
   (B)   Temporary facility. Each temporary tattoo/body piercing facility
operation shall obtain a permit from the County Health Department. The permit
shall provide the name and address of the owner of the business and the name
and address of each tattoo artist and body piercer operating at each location.
The cost of this permit shall be $180 and shall not be transferable. The permit
expires on December 31 of each year. Should an establishment fail to obtain the
permit prior to the opening of a mobile tattoo and/or body piercing facility or
should any licensee fail to renew his or her license on or before the
expiration date of December 31, then said fee shall be annual plus 50% of the
annual fee set forth above for the tattoo and/or body piercing facility. Any
holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection as set forth herein. The
County Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms for this permit.
Said permit shall be posted at the mobile facility in the area where the tattoo
or body piercing services are performed and shall be clearly visible to the
public. In addition, the date, time, and location of the event where the mobile
facility will be used shall be submitted at least three business days prior to
the start time of the event to the County Health Department.
   (C)   Tattoo artist or body piercer. Every person that desires to perform
any tattoo or body piercing shall obtain a tattoo artist license, body piercer
license, or a tattoo artist/body piercer license from the County Health
Department. Each applicant must be at least 18 years of age. This license must
be obtained before any tattoos are affixed or body piercing done to any person
and after the requisite training. The applicant must satisfy the minimum
requirements as set forth herein in §
114.06. The cost of said license shall be $50 and shall not be transferable.
The license expires on December 31 of each year. Should a tattoo artist or body
piercer fail to obtain the license prior to performing any tattoo or body
piercing or should any licensee fail to renew his or her license on or before
the expiration date of December 31, then said fee shall be annual plus 50% of
the annual fee set forth above for the tattoo artist or body piercer. Any
holder of a license shall be subject to inspection as set forth herein. The
County Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms for this license.
Said licenses shall be posted at the facility in the place where the tattoos or
body piercing are performed and shall be clearly visible to the public.
   (D)   Owner/operator. In the event that a tattoo/body piercing facility is a
sole proprietorship and the owner shall also perform tattooing or body piercing
for his or her business, the owner shall only be required to obtain a business
permit as described in this section.
   (E)   Guest tattoo artist or body piercer. Every person that desires to
perform any tattoo or body piercing services within the town on a temporary
basis shall obtain a guest tattoo artist license, guest body piercer license,
or a guest tattoo artist/body piercer license from the County Health
Department. This license must be obtained before any tattoos are affixed or
body piercing is done to any person and after the required training. The
applicant must satisfy the minimum requirements as set forth herein in §
114.06. The cost of said license shall be $25 for a 30-day license and shall
not be transferable. The permit shall expire 30 days after the date of
issuance. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection as set forth
herein. The County Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms for
this permit. Said permits shall be posted at the facility in the area where the
tattoo or body piercing services are performed and shall be clearly visible to
the public.
   (F)   Pro-rating of fees. In the event that a business, mobile facility,
tattoo artist, and/or body piercer shall apply for a permit any time prior to
July 1 of any year, they shall be responsible for the total annual fee as
described in this chapter. In the event that a business, mobile facility,
tattoo artist, and/or body piercer shall apply for a permit any time after or
on July 1 of any year, he, she, or it shall be required to pay one-half of the
annual fee. All permits, however, shall expire on December 31 of the year in
which they were issued.
   (G)   Temporary events. 
      (1)   Temporary studios at locations such as fairs, festivals, or flea
markets, shall comply with all requirements for a certified studio in
accordance with §§
114.01 through
114.07 and
114.20 through
114.29 of this administrative regulation in their entirety. The event organizer
or studio owner for the event shall be responsible for ensuring that the event
is run in a manner that is safe for the body piercer, tattoo artist, and
general public. The event organizer or studio owner shall provide a list of all
participating artists/piercers at the event and with the County Health
Department. This information shall include the following information for each
participating artist/piercer;
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Date of birth;
         (c)   Home address;
         (d)   Business name;
         (e)   Business address;
         (f)   Home and work telephone numbers;
         (g)   Email address (if available);
         (h)   Description of procedures to be performed at the event; and
         (i)   Copy of current artist/piercer registration.
      (2)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide a layout of the
event floor to the County Health Department before being granted a permit.
      (3)   Each participant who performs shall bring enough presterilized
instruments and supplies to last the whole event.
      (4)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide a separate
cleaning and sterilization room as a back up for use by participants who have
used all the presterilized instruments and were brought to the event. If used,
the cleaning and sterilization room shall be disinfected at the close of the
event. Presterilized instruments and equipment shall not be reused.
      (5)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide an approved
autoclave that has a negative spore test within 30 days prior to the event.
      (6)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide for pick up and
disposal of contaminated waste in accordance with this chapter and
administrative rules.
      (7)   Each artist/piercer at the temporary event must either have an
annual or guest license. In addition to the license each tattoo/body piercing
facility or workstation at the temporary event shall obtain a permit from the
County Health Department. The permit shall provide the name and address of the
owner of the business and the name and address of each tattoo artist and body
piercer employed at the event. The cost for the temporary event permit shall be
$20 per day, not to exceed $100 for a maximum of 14 consecutive days. All fees
shall be paid prior to the event.
      (8)   Temporary workstations shall meet the following minimum conditions:
         (a)   Be at least ten feet by ten feet and be constructed in a manner
to separate the artist/piercer from the public in such a way as to protect the
procedure area from contamination, and prevent accidental exposure of the
potentially-infectious material created during such procedures;
         (b)   Have a floor and sides that are smooth, nonporous, and easy to
clean;
         (c)   Have at least 100 foot-candles of light available at the level
where the tattoo or body piercing is conducted;
         (d)   Be equipped with a handwashing facility. A hand-wash facility,
at the minimum, shall consist of liquid antibacterial or antimicrobial soap,
single use paper towels, and an insulated five-gallon container with a level-
type spigot. Filled with warm potable water 101°F to 120°F, and a bucket to
catch the wastewater. The water container shall be placed at least 30 inches
off the floor to allow for easy use, and shall be filled regularly to ensue an
adequate supply of warm water for hand washing;
         (e)   Wastewater shall be disposed of into a public sewage system, if
available. If a public sewage system is not available, disposal shall be made
into a private system designed, constructed, and operated pursuant the to the
requirements of Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 of state administrative codes; and
         (f)   Shall be supplied with an adequate supply of paper or plastic
barrier film to protect equipment and any other item that must be protected to
prevent cross-contamination.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.41 INSPECTIONS.
   The County Health Department shall conduct inspections of each and every
facility and mobile facility located in the town. The County Health Department
shall conduct a minimum of two inspections per year for facilities and one
inspection per year for mobile facilities. Additional inspections may be
conducted by the County Health Department as it determines and/or in response
to complaints submitted. The results of the inspections shall be provided to
each operator. Violations noted by the County Health Department shall be
corrected immediately. The Department shall conduct follow-up inspections to
determine compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.42 PROCEDURES WHEN VIOLATIONS ARE NOTED.
   (A)   If, during the inspection of any facility, the Health Officer
discovers a violation of this code of ordinances or the County Health Code, he
or she shall issue a written report listing such violations and the remedial
action(s) to be taken. A copy of said report shall be delivered to the
permittee and/or licensee by hand delivering the report to him or her on-site,
or mailing the notice by certified mail to the address listed by the permittee
and/or licensee as his or her or its mailing address on the permit application.
   (B)   A copy of the written order shall be filed in the records of the
Department after appropriate review by supervisory personnel and then shall be
made available to the public.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 114.43 PERMIT OR LICENSE SUSPENSION/REVOCATION.
   The Health Officer may order the suspension or revocation of any permit or
license issued for a facility or artist, which order shall include the
prohibition of any further operation for the following reasons:
   (A)   Interference with the Health Officer, or his or her authored
representatives, in the performance of his or her duties. INTERFERENCE shall be
defined as the process of obstructing, hampering, or blocking the Health
Officer in the performance of his or her duties; and/or
   (B)   As a result of the willful and/or continuous violation of any
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.44 OTHER PERMIT OR LICENSE REVOCATION, SUSPENSION, AND IMMEDIATE CLOSURE
ORDERS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in division (B) below, no suspension or revocation
shall be ordered by the Health Officer except after a hearing held pursuant to
§
114.45(A).
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, whenever the
Health Officer, or his or her authorized representatives, find unsanitary or
other conditions, involving the operation of any facility or artist which, in
his or her reasonable belief, constitutes an imminent health hazard, he or she
shall without notice or hearing, issue and serve a written order upon the
permittee or licensee requiring the immediate closure of its operations, shall
cite the existence of said unsanitary conditions, and shall specify the
corrective actions to be taken.
      (1)   Such order shall be effective immediately.
      (2)   Upon written request to the Health Officer, the permittee or
licensee shall be afforded a hearing on the next business day as set forth in §
114.45(A).
      (3)   The Health Officer shall make a reinspection upon the request of
the permittee or licensee. When the Health Officer determines that the
necessary corrective action(s) have been taken, operation of the facility may
be resumed.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 114.45 HEARING.
   (A)   All hearings required under this section, except those set forth in §
114.46(A), shall be held only upon at least ten days’ written notice to the
permittee or licensee of time, place, and nature thereof. The notice of hearing
shall be served upon the permittee or licensee by leaving, or mailing by
certified mail, the notice to the address listed on the permit application as
the permittee’s or licensee’s mailing address or such other address as the
permittee or licensee shall designate in writing to the Health Officer.
   (B)   At any hearing required under this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall
be the Health Officer or the Health Officer’s designee. Every person who is a
party to such proceedings shall have the right to submit evidence, to cross-
examine witnesses, and to be represented by legal counsel. All such hearings
shall be conducted in an informal manner, but irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly
repetitive evidence may be excluded.
   (C)   Upon the conclusion of such hearing, the Hearing Officer shall enter a
final order, subject to the right of appeal in accordance with §
114.46(A).
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 114.46 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any permittee or licensee aggrieved by any final order of the Health
Officer shall be entitled to a review of the final order before the County
Board of Health (Board) by filing a written request therefor with the Secretary
of the Board within 15 days after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the Board shall
hear the matter de novo in an open hearing after at least ten days’ written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. (The Health Officer and permittee
or licensee may agree to a shorter period of time, if requested by either
party.) The notice shall be issued by the Secretary of the Board to the
permittee or licensee filing the request.
   (C)   The notice of hearing shall be served upon the permittee or licensee
by leaving or mailing by certified mail, the notice to the address listed on
the permit application as the permittee’s or licensee’s mailing address or such
other address as the permittee or licensee shall designate in writing to the
Secretary of the Board.
   (D)   At such hearing, the same rules of procedure shall apply as set forth
in §
114.45(B), provided, that upon written request by the permittee/licensee or the
Health Officer, the Board shall cause the proceedings before it to be recorded
by a reporter employed for such purpose, and the same, together with all papers
and documents filed therein, shall, at the request of either party, be
reproduced by said Board in the form of a transcript, a copy of which shall be
available to any party.
   (E)   The expense of such proceedings shall be charged to the permittee/
licensee who applied for the review, except that copies of transcripts shall be
at the expense of the party requesting the same. At the time the transcript is
requested, the Board may require the permittee/licensee to pay a deposit in an
amount determined by the Board to be necessary to secure such expense(s).
   (F)   The Board shall make written findings of facts and shall enter its
final order or determination of the matter in writing.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 114.47 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter shall be null and void. A violation of an order issued by the Health
Officer or Board shall be considered to be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 114.48 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Health Officer determines that any facility/artist or any other
person, is in willful violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the
Health Officer shall furnish evidence of said willful violation to the
prosecuting attorney of the county or the attorney for the Board who shall seek
all appropriate legal remedies against the person(s) violating said provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.49 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Prohibits acts include:
   (A)   Any medical procedures including, but not limited to, tongue
splitting, tattoo removal, and uses of anesthesia; and/or
   (B)   Home tattoo parties and mobile tattoo parlors.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.50 INJUNCTION.
   The Health Officer may bring an action for an injunction in the Circuit or
Superior Court of the town to restrain any person from violating the provisions
of this chapter to cause such violation(s) to be prevented, abated, or removed.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 114.51 EXPENSE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable
to the County Health Department for the expense, loss, or damage occasioned by
reason of such violation, including reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.52 CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies provided in this chapter shall be cumulative, and not
exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.53 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after the required
publication under I.C. 36-5-2-10.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each violation. Each day
of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be considered to be a
separate offense.
(Ord. G-10-05, passed 4-12-2010)
CHAPTER 115: BED AND BREAKFASTS; FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Permits
   
115.03   Permit fees
   
115.04   Inspection
   
115.05   Violations
   
115.06   Compliance and enforcement
   
115.07   Appeals
   
115.08   Conflict of interest
   
115.09   Repeal and effective date
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An operator occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
(410 I.A.C. 7-15.5)
   CHIEF FOOD SPECIALIST. The official, as defined below, who has primary
responsibility over bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
and temporary food establishment inspections.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. For purposes of this chapter, a situation in which the
private financial interest of the official, the official’s spouse, ex-spouse,
siblings, in-laws, children, and/or unemancipated child, may influence the
judgment in the performance of a public duty. The official may be subject to
other ethical requirements in addition to those set forth herein.
   CRITICAL VIOLATION. A condition that is more likely than other violations to
significantly contribute to food contamination, illness, or an environmental
health hazard.
   ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SUPERVISOR. The official who has primary responsibility
over all Environmental Health Specialists.
   ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST. An official hired by the Health Officer and
designated as ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department, having jurisdiction over
bed and breakfast establishments, retail food establishments, and temporary
food establishments.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. A written document that
delineates the formal procedures for following the Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point principles developed by the National Advisory Committee on
Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
(410 I.A.C. 7-24)
   HEALTH OFFICER. The person, duly appointed, by the County Health Department
under I.C. 16-20-2-16 having jurisdiction in the county or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   HEARING BOARD. A subcommittee of the County Board of Health comprised of at
least four members of the County Board of Health. The HEARING BOARD shall not
include the Health Officer or any other employee of the Health Department.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any circumstance or situation, which in the opinion
of the Health Officer, presents a serious health risk to the public.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the Health Department that is
completed as the result of the inspection and provided to an Operator, as
defined below.
   OFFICIAL. Any Environmental Health Specialist of the county.
   OPERATOR. Person, as defined below, who has a primary oversight
responsibility for operation of the establishment through ownership, lease, or
contractual agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation,
display, transportation, or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. A Health Department action of particular applicability that
determines the legal rights, duties, privileges, immunities, or other legal
interests of one or more specific persons, including a permit, as defined
below.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the Health Department that authorizes a
person, as defined below, to be an operator of a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, agent, association, business organization,
cooperative, corporation, entity, firm, institution, municipality or
governmental unit, partnership, proprietorship, school, trust, or estate.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. The individual present at a retail food establishment who
is responsible for the operation at the time of inspection.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   An establishment that stores, prepares, packages, serves, or
otherwise provides food for human consumption, including: a restaurant; a
satellite or catered feeding location; a catering operation if the operation
provides food directly or indirectly to a consumer; a market; a grocery store;
a convenience store; an institution; a food bank; or a food service
establishment that relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or other delivery service.
      (2)   The term RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT includes, but is not limited to,
the following:
         (a)   An element of the establishment, such as a transportation
vehicle that supplies a vending location or satellite feeding location; and/or
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary, or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off
the premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
      (3)   The term RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT does not include the following.
         (a)   An establishment that offers only prepackaged foods that are not
potentially hazardous;
         (b)   A produce stand that only offers whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables;
         (c)   A food processing plant operated under I.C. 16-42-5;
         (d)   A private home where food is prepared by a member of an
organization that is operating under I.C. 16-18-2-137 and is sold or offered
for human consumption;
         (e)   A bed and breakfast establishment as defined and regulated under
I.C. 16-41-31 and 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5;
         (f)   A private home that receives catered or home-delivered food;
         (g)   A private home which provides childcare and is not subject to
I.C. 12-13-5;
         (h)   A private home which provides residential care and is not
subject to I.C. 12-15 and/or I.C. 23-2-4; and
         (i)   A private home.
(410 I.A.C. 7-24)
   RETAIL FOOD MARKET ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail food establishment, including,
but not limited to, a grocery store, convenience store, salvage store, discount
store, meat market, poultry market, fish market, fresh fruit and vegetable
market, delicatessen, confectionary, candy kitchen, nut store, retail bakery
store, or any food establishment, whether fixed or movable, where food is
intended primarily for human consumption off the premises of such retail food
establishment, is manufactured, produced, stored, prepared, handled, sold, or
offered with or without charge. Provided, however, that the provisions of this
chapter shall not include meat or poultry slaughterhouses.
   RETAIL FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail food establishment, including,
but not limited to, a restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short-order cafe,
luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, soda fountain, commissary, drive-in
restaurant, drink establishment, snack bar, food counter, dining room, food
catering facility, seasonal establishments opened for more than six months out
of the year, industrial feeding establishment, private, public, or non-profit
organization or institution routinely serving food, and any other eating or
drinking establishment, where food or drink products are prepared, served, or
provided primarily for human consumption at such retail food establishment,
with or without charge. The term does not include private homes where food is
prepared or served for individual family consumption.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A retail food establishment that operates for
a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event
or celebration.
(410 I.A.C. 7-24)
(Ord. 2008-G-0814, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 115.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   General. It is unlawful to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food establishment in
the county without first obtaining a permit from the Health Department.
   (B)   Posting. The permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the
bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food
establishment.
   (C)   Separate permits. A separate permit shall be required for each bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food
establishment operated or to be operated by any person.
   (D)   Permit issuance. A permit may only be issued to persons who comply
with the applicable requirements of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
Any permit issued under this chapter is not transferable. Upon the change of
location of any bed and breakfast, retail food establishment, or temporary food
establishment, all existing permits become void. A permit shall not be sold,
assigned, licensed, or transferred.
   (E)   Term. Permits issued by the Health Officer shall be valid according to
the following periods.
      (1)   The permit for a retail food establishment or bed and breakfast
establishment shall be for a term of one year. Said permit shall be renewed
annually beginning on July 1 of current year and expiring on June 30 of the
following year.
      (2)   The permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for a term
not to exceed 14 consecutive days. A temporary food establishment permit shall
be for the term of one continuous operation.
   (F)   Permit content. Permits issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the operator to whom the permit is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the Health Officer.
   (G)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
shall submit to the Health Department a written application for a permit on a
form provided by the Health Department (State Form 50033).
   (H)   Content of the application. The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number, and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address, and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment is owned by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership, or other legal entity;
      (3)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment;
      (4)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified under division
(H)(3) above such as the zone, district, or regional supervisor;
      (5)   The names, titles, and addresses of:
         (a)   The person(s) comprising the legal owners of the operator and/or
the person authorized to accept service of process and notice; and
         (b)   The local resident agent of the operator or the person holding
the permit, if one is required for such operator or person;
      (6)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will:
            1.   Comply with this chapter; and
            2.   Allow the Health Department access to the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/ or temporary food establishment
and records as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
      (7)   Other information required by the Health Department.
   (I)   Qualification. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment and provide
required information; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time of issuance or renewal.
   (J)   Plans requirements.
      (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed
and breakfast establishment, and/or retail food establishment shall submit to
the Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications, in accordance
with State Form 50004 plan review questionnaire for review and approval before:
         (a)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment; or
         (c)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast
establishment, and/or retail food establishment or food operation if the Health
Department determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure
compliance with this section.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall include, the type of operation, type of
food preparation (as specified in Appendix B of the published version of 410
I.A.C. 7-24), and the menu.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
approved by Health Department before a permit hereunder can be issued.
      (4)   A pre-operational inspection must show that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment is built or remodeled in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5.
   (K)   Change of ownership. The Health Department may renew a permit for an
existing bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment, or
may issue a permit to a new owner of an existing bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment after a properly completed
application is submitted, reviewed, and approved, the fees are paid, and an
inspection shows that the establishment is in compliance with this chapter.
   (L)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the Health Department, the operator in order to retain the permit shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the Health
Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the Health Department access to the bed
and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at all reasonable
times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the Health Department including time
frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices, orders,
warnings, and other directives issued by the Health Department in regard to the
operator’s bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment or
in response to community emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the Health Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment that is conspicuous to
consumers.
   (M)   Equipment. All equipment installed in a food establishment for use in
the cleansing and bactericidal treatment of utensils, or in the preparation,
storing, handling, cleaning, sanitizing, serving, or displaying of any food or
beverage products, shall be of a type conforming with all applicable
requirements with regard to proper holding temperatures, design, construction,
location, and materials, as required in 410 I.A.C. 7-24, and as amended
hereafter. The County Health Department may prohibit the further use of any
equipment that fails to meet the requirements above.
(Ord. 2008-G-0814, passed 5-20-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.03 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
in the county who has not paid the permit fee required to be paid for the
operation of such establishment.
   (B)   Permit fees to be paid for the issuance of a permit under this chapter
for a bed and breakfast establishment, a retail food establishment, and/or a
temporary food establishment shall be set by the Health Department, as provided
by the statutes of the state (see I.C. 16-20-1-27), and as set forth and
approved by the County Council and County Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   For permits which upon initial issuance will expire in fewer than 180
days from the date thereof, the applicant shall pay one-half of the fees set
forth by the Health Department.
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the Health
Department.
   (E)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
   (F)   A not-for-profit organization that offers food for sale to the final
consumer at an event held for the benefit of the organization is exempt from
the payment of fees. This exemption only applies to organizations that meet the
criteria addressed in I.C. 16-18-2-137. The Health Officer shall be provided,
upon request, proof of an organization’s tax exemption.
   (G)   A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the commencement
of operation of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
and/or temporary food establishment, and to renew a permit prior to its
expiration shall be paid in the amount of 50% of the above annual fee for such
permit, or in such amount as set from time to time by the County Health Board.
   (H)   Credit for the payment of fees under this chapter is not transferable
or refundable.
(Ord. 2008-G-0814, passed 5-20-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 INSPECTION.
   (A)   General. The Health Department shall inspect a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment bi-annually, or less frequently
if indicated under the risk based assessment method as outlined by the State
Department of Health. The County Board of Health may inspect more frequently if
a risk is posed by any of the following: the establishment has had critical
violations in the last inspection; the establishment serves an at-risk
population; or a consumer complaint or a report of a foodborne illness has been
reported to the Department.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The Health Department shall periodically
inspect throughout its permit period a temporary food establishment that
prepares, sells, or serves unpackaged potentially hazardous food and may
inspect a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or serves
unpackaged, non-potentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as handwashing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, ware-washing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal, and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (C)   Performance and risk based inspections. Within the parameters for risk
specified above, the Health Department shall prioritize and conduct more
frequent inspections based upon its assessment of a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment’s history of compliance with
this chapter and the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment’s potential as a vector of foodborne illness by evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance, for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C.
7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or
non-critical;
      (2)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C.
7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are non-
critical;
      (3)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be
valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored, or served;
      (5)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation, and service;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
   (D)   Application and permit fees. The application for any permit shall be
tendered with the following application fees:
      (1)   Each new retail food establishment shall be required to pay an
application fee of $100 for the review of plans and specifications and for the
initial inspection of such establishment. This fee is in addition to the permit
fee.
      (2)   Permit fees for retail food establishments are payable as follows:
 
Permit Fees for Retail Food Market Establishments
Up to and including 3,000 square feet         $125
3,000 up to and including 20,000 square feet  $175
20,000 up to and including 70,000 square feet $225
70,000 square feet and above                  $275
 
Permit Fees for Retail Food Service Establishments
1-5 employees        $125
6-9 employees        $175
10-15 employees      $225
16-20 employees      $275
21 or more employees $325
 
Permit Fees for Temporary Food Establishments
$20 per day, not to exceed $100, for a maximum of 14 days
 
Flat Rate Permit Fees
Bed and breakfast establishments                                       $150
Retail food establishments that are seasonal concessions operated less $125
than six months per year
 
   (E)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice.
      (1)   After the officer or an official presents official credentials and
provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection, the
operator shall allow the Health Department to determine if the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food
establishment is in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the
establishment, allowing inspection, and providing information and records
specified in this chapter. Inspections shall be conducted during the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food
establishment’s hours of operation and other reasonable times.
      (2)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
      (3)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law. (See I.C. 16-20-1-26.)
(Ord. 2008-G-0814, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 115.05 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the Health
Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and the
notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person in charge, as
required under I.C. 16-20-8-5.
   (B)   Timely correction of critical violations.
      (1)   Except as specified in division (B)(2) below, an operator shall, at
the time of inspection, correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410
I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and implement corrective actions for a HACCP
plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit.
      (2)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the Health Department may agree to
or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator to
correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (3)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the Health Department shall verify correction of the violation,
document the information on an inspection report, and enter the report in the
Health Department’s records.
   (C)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment.
      (1)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator’s obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
      (2)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the Health Department historical record for
the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or
temporary food establishment.
   (D)   Public information. Except as specified in § 194 (Trade Secrets) of
410 I.A.C. 7-24, the Health Department shall treat the inspection report as a
public document and shall make it available for disclosure to a person who
requests it as provided in law. (See I.C. 16-20-8-6.)
(Ord. 2008-G-0814, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 115.06 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or
temporary food establishment is denied, the Health Department shall provide the
applicant with a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must-take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit suspension. The Health Department may suspend a permit to
operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or
temporary food establishment if it determines through any inspection, or
examination of records, or other means as specified in this chapter, that an
imminent health hazard exists.
   (C)   Ceasing operation and contacting the Health Department.
      (1)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment, and/or temporary food establishment shall immediately
discontinue operations and notify the Health Department if an imminent health
hazard may exist because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended
interruption of electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous
or toxic materials, onset of an apparent foodborne illness outbreak, gross
unsanitary occurrence or condition, or other circumstance that may endanger
public health.
      (2)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (D)   Resuming operation. If only a portion of a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
is affected the operator may continue operations in the unaffected portion,
provided there is no imminent health hazard to such unaffected portion.
Otherwise, the operator must obtain approval from the Health Department before
resuming operations.
   (E)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a
permit may not be issued or may be suspended.
   (F)   Enforcement options. When the Health Officer or an official finds a
critical violation at a retail food establishment, it will be addressed at the
time of the inspection; a follow-up inspection may also be conducted.
      (1)   First follow-up inspection. 
         (a)   A letter of warning may be issued when there are critical or
noncritical violations continuing upon the first follow-up inspection. If a
letter of warning is issued, a second follow-up inspection will be conducted.
         (b)   If a letter of warning is issued, a second follow-up inspection
will be conducted.
      (2)   Second follow-up inspection.
         (a)   After a second follow-up inspection in which it is determined
those critical or noncritical violations are continuing, one or a combination
of the following measures may be implemented at the discretion of the
Environmental Health Supervisor:
            1.   Letter of warning;
            2.   Informal meeting held in the Health Department offices;
            3.   A meeting held at the establishment by the Health Officer,
Environmental Health Supervisor, or Chief Food Specialist; and/or
            4.   Another follow-up inspection.
         (b)   There shall be a fee payable before any second follow-up
inspection in the amount of 50% of the annual permit, or in such amount as set
from time to time by the County Health Board.
      (3)   Third/subsequent follow-up inspection.
         (a)   Upon a third inspection follow-up inspection, with continuing
critical or noncritical violations, or upon the continued unlawful operation
during an event of imminent health hazard, an enforcement action may be
instituted, and may include one or more of the following:
               1.   Issuance of a notice of violation and order to abate;
               2.   Follow-up inspections conducted as often as necessary to
ensure compliance; and/or
               3.   If the action concerning public health is a criminal
offense, request the county prosecuting attorney to institute a proceeding in
the courts for enforcement. (See I.C. 16-20-1-25(c).)
         (b)   There shall be a fee payable upon before any third follow-up
inspection or subsequent inspection in the amount of 50% of the annual permit,
or in such amount as set from time to time by the County Health Board.
   (G)   Permit revocation. The Health Department may permanently revoke a
permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment,
and/or temporary food establishment if it determines through an inspection and
examination of past and current inspections reports that repeat and habitual
critical violations exist, presenting an imminent health hazard.
(Ord. 2008-G-0814, passed 5-20-2008; Ord. G-11-01, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 115.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   An operator aggrieved by an order is entitled to a review of the final
order before a Hearing Board by filing a written request therefor with the
Health Officer (Secretary of the Board of Health; see I.C. 16-20-1-10). The
written request must be sent by certified mail or by hand delivery to the
Health Officer at 1917 Bono Road, New Albany, Indiana 47150, during regular
hours of operation, and must be received within 15 days after the date such
order is issued. The written request must set forth with specificity the
factual and/or legal grounds for appeal, and only those matters set forth in
the written request may be argued before the Hearing Board.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the Hearing Board
shall hear the matter in an open hearing after at least five days’ written
notice of the time, place, and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the state’s rules of court. (A shorter period of time for hearing
may be requested and granted in the sole discretion of the Chairperson of the
County Board of Health, provided that such shorter time must permit compliance
with I.C. 5-14-1.5.)
   (C)   The notice of the hearing date shall be served upon the operator
requesting the review by delivering such notice to the address of the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food
establishment listed on the permit application or by facsimile or to such other
address (if within the county), as the operator shall designate in the letter
of request to the Health Officer. Such delivery may be made by leaving the
notice at the required address or by regular U.S. mail.
   (D)   The Hearing Board shall establish the rules of procedure for the
hearing and shall advise the operator of the same prior to the start of the
proceedings. Such rules shall provide that an order may only be supported, in
whole or in part, by a majority decision of the Hearing Board.
   (E)   Within seven days from the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing
Board shall make written findings of facts and conclusions concerning the final
order or determination and shall deliver the same to the operator requesting
the review by delivering the same to the address of the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, or temporary food establishment
listed on the permit application or by facsimile or by hand delivery to such
other address (if within the county), as the operator shall designate in the
letter of request to the Health Officer. Such delivery may be made by leaving
the notice at the required address or by regular U.S. mail.
(Ord. 2008-G-0814, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 115.08 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No Health Department official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner
that is or could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2008-G-0814, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 115.09 REPEAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter are
hereby repealed, and this chapter shall be in full force and effect 30 days
after its adoption and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 2008-G-0814, passed 5-20-2008)
CHAPTER 116: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose of chapter
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Permit required
   
116.04   Application
   
116.05   Investigation of applicant
   
116.06   Permit fees
   
116.07   Insurance and indemnity
   
116.08   Location restrictions
   
116.09   Prohibited hours
   
116.10   Standard of conduct
   
116.11   Safety requirements
   
116.12   Suspension, revocation, administration
   
116.13   Right to appeal
   
116.14   Exemptions
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the activities of individuals,
firms, or corporations engaging in the practice of mobile food sales to sustain
a safe and consistent standard of operation and to promote public health,
safety, and welfare of the Town of Georgetown, Indiana and the citizens and
inhabitants thereof.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
abbreviations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include future tense, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number:
   COUNCIL. Shall refer to the Town Council of the Town of Georgetown, Indiana.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage, drink
or ingredient used or intended for the use or for sale in whole or in part for
human consumption.
   FOOD CATERER. A person or company hired and paid to provide and serve food,
usually for a large group and at a location separate from where the food is
prepared. A food caterer does not include someone preparing and selling food to
individuals.
   FOOD VENDING PUSHCART. Any box or container with wheels that is not
propelled or moved by an engine and was designed and manufactured specifically
for the purpose of selling food.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A self-contained food establishment that is on wheels,
self-propelled or moved by an engine, weighs no more than 16,000 pounds, and
for which the primary purpose of the vehicle is the sale and/or production of
food.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR (VENDOR).  Includes any individual person, firm, or
corporation who operates mobile food vending pushcarts and/or mobile food
vehicles.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR PERMIT (PERMIT). A permit which has been issued pursuant
to the requirements of this chapter.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any event so designated by the Town Council of the Town of
Georgetown, Indiana.
   TOWN.  Shall refer to the Town of Georgetown, Indiana.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a mobile food vendor to engage in their
respective businesses within the corporate limits of the town without obtaining
a mobile food vendor permit in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
The obtaining of a permit by an employer or principal shall in no way relieve
any employee or agent of that employer or principal of their legal obligation
to obtain a permit, if their activity falls within the jurisdiction of this
chapter.
   (B)   A mobile food vendor does not need to obtain a solicitors license.
   (C)   A mobile food vendor shall obtain a separate permit for each mobile
food vehicle and/or food vending pushcart they wish to operate. All permits
issued under the authority of this chapter shall not be transferable.
   (D)   If any permit holder desires to continue in business after the
expiration of a permit, a new permit must be obtained as required under this
chapter.
   (E)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall contain the
information prescribed by the Town Manager.
   (F)   The Town Manager reserves the right to determine if an application for
a permit is satisfactory and complete.
   (G)   Each mobile food vendor must obtain all necessary and required
licenses prior to applying for the town permit and must comply with all
regulations established by the Floyd County Health Department and/or other
regulatory bodies.
   (H)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve a mobile food vendor
from obtaining other required licenses and/or permits from other regulatory
bodies.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.04 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for any mobile food vendor permit under this chapter must file a
written sworn application signed by the applicant with the Town Manager or
Building Department showing at minimum the following information:
   (A)   The name, full address, telephone number and email (if applicable) of
the mobile food vending business, business owner, and business operator;
   (B)   The intended locations of operation of the mobile food vendor;
   (C)   The duration of the permit being sought;
   (D)   The intended hours of operation of the mobile food vendor;
   (E)   The name, the telephone number, the email address of the private
property owner (if applicable) and the full address of the private property on
which the mobile food vendor intends to operate, if applicable;
   (F)   A completed menu of food being sold;
   (G)   Proof of Floyd County Health Permit;
   (H)   Proof of insurance, if operating on property owned and maintained by
the town, in compliance with the town minimum insurance requirements;
   (I)   Letter of approval, if operating on property owned by the town and
maintained by the Town Manager and Building Department;
   (J)   Letter of approval from private property owner, if operating on
private property; and
   (K)   Dated mobile food vendors signature verifying that they shall abide by
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.05 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   Upon receipt by the Town Manager of any application for a permit under
the provisions of this chapter, the Georgetown Police Department may
investigate a mobile food vendor’s criminal history and moral character as it
deems necessary for the protection of the public good and welfare.
   (B)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant's moral character
and business responsibility are found to be such as to endanger or be
detrimental to the public and its good and welfare, the permit shall be denied
or, if issued, revoked by the Georgetown Police Department.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.06 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Each applicant shall pay a permit fee in accordance with the schedule
set forth below, starting in 2024:
 
One week permit               $25
30-day permit                 $50
90-day permit                 $100
One year permit               $200
Special events (per event)    $50
Softball leagues (per league) $50
 
   (B)   A permit becomes active for a consecutive period of time on the day
that the permit is approved.
   (C)   In the event the permit is revoked, the town shall retain all funds.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued until the permit fee has been paid.
   (E)   The $10 solicitors license fee does not apply to these vendors.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.07 INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY.
   (A)   Applicants operating on property owned and maintained by the town
shall provide a certificate of liability upon approval of the permit, which
shall insure the applicant and name the Town of Georgetown, Indiana, as
additional insured against the following liabilities and in the following
amounts relative to such activity:
      (1)   General Liability: $1,000,000; and
      (2)   Automotive Liability: $1,000,000.
   (B)   Mobile food vendors who are operating a food vending pushcart are
exempt from providing proof of automotive liability insurance. Mobile food
vendors who are self-employed and have no additional employees are exempt from
providing proof of workers compensation insurance.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.08 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors shall be permitted to operate at the following
locations:
      (1)   Old Town Hall Parking Lot;
      (2)   Georgetown Park; and
      (3) Ashley Mariah Memorial Park.
   (B)   Mobile food vendors may make special requests to the Town Manager to
operate on other locations owned and maintained by the town.
   (C)   The town shall have the authority to designate other locations of
permitted operation for special events.
   (D)   With written consent of the property owners, vendors may operate on
private property that is in a business or industrial zone.
   (E)   Where a vendor seeks to operate in a right-of-way, the vendor shall
not impede the use of a town street, alleyway, and/or sidewalk.
   (F)   No mobile food vendor shall operate within 100 feet of a special
event, unless granted approval by the coordinator of the special event or the
Council.
   (G)   No mobile food vendor shall locate themselves in an area that
significantly impedes or prevents the use of any town property, or which would
endanger the safety and/or property of the public.
   (H)   No mobile food vendor shall locate themselves in residentially zoned
areas.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.09 PROHIBITED HOURS.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors are prohibited from operating or parking on any
property owned and maintained by the town between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
5:00 a.m.
   (B)   Mobile food vendors may make special requests to the Town Manager to
operate during prohibited hours.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.10 STANDARD OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors shall conduct themselves at all times in an
orderly and lawful manner.
   (B)   Mobile food vendors are prohibited from using a device or machine to
produce unreasonable amounts of sound or light (such as but not limited to bull
horns, strobe lights, and neon signs).
   (C)   Mobile food vendors are required to obey the commands of law
enforcement and the Town Manager.
   (D)   No mobile food vendor shall provide tables, seating, or any other
dining arrangements.
   (E)   No mobile food vendor shall sell or otherwise provide alcoholic
beverages.
   (F)   Mobile food vendors must provide waste receptacles that are sufficient
in size for both customer and employee waste.
   (G)   Mobile food vendors are responsible for the disposal of waste that is
generated by the use of their waste receptacles and shall not dispose of their
waste in waste receptables owned and maintained by the town.
   (H)   Mobile food vendors are prohibited from disposing of any food, liquid,
or other waste materials in sanitary and/or storm water sewers.
   (I)   Mobile food vendors are permitted one sandwich board. In addition, the
sandwich board must be within ten feet of the food vending pushcart or mobile
food vehicle and cannot impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic. The sandwich
board must be taken with the mobile food vendor each day and cannot be left
behind.
   (J)   Mobile food vendors shall not utilize any town or private electrical
outlets while in operation. All electrical needs must be self-generated.
   (K)   Mobile food vendors operating electrical equipment are required to use
heavy duty extension cords.
   (L)   Mobile food vendors may operate a generator. Said generator must be in
compliance with the town's noise ordinance.
   (M)   Mobile food vendors must be parked a minimum of ten feet away from
nearby buildings or other food vending pushcarts and/or mobile food vehicles.
   (N)   Mobile food vehicles operating deep frying appliances must be parked a
minimum of 20 feet away from nearby buildings or other food vending pushcarts
and/or mobile food vehicles.
   (O)   Mobile food vendors must be parked a minimum of 100 feet from the
entrance of a restaurant or from an outdoor dining area.
   (P)   Mobile food vendors must be parked a minimum of 15 feet from a fire
hydrant.
   (Q)   Mobile food vendors are prohibited from smoking within eight feet of
their mobile food vehicle or food vending pushcart.
   (R)   No food vending pushcart or mobile food vehicle shall operate with a
drive thru.
   (S)   Mobile food vendors must display their permit at all times while in
operation.
   (T)   Food vending pushcarts and mobile food vehicles can be inspected by
the Town Manager, Floyd County Health Department, and or an employee designated
by the town when deemed necessary.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.11 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All mobile food vehicles must have a fire extinguisher.
   (B)   Each fire extinguisher provided by a mobile food vendor shall have a
label or tag securely attached that indicates the last time it was serviced.
The label or tag must state the month the service took place and the
individual, firm, or corporation responsible for servicing it. All fire
extinguishers must have been serviced and validated within the last 12 months.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.12 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Permits issued under the provision of this chapter may be revoked by
the Town Manager, Town Attorney, and/or Georgetown Police Department after
notice and hearing for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements contained in the
application for the permit.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in the course of
the business for which the permit is issued.
      (3)   Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Conducting the business for which the permit is issued in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation of a permit shall be given, in
writing, setting forth specifically, the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
permit holder at their last known address, at least five days prior to the date
set for the hearing.
   (C)   Enforcement. The Town Manager, Town Attorney, and Georgetown Police
Department shall enforce this chapter. Upon determination by the Town Manager,
Town Attorney, and Georgetown Police Department that there exists an emergency
and that for the protection of the public welfare any permit should be
immediately suspended, the Town Manager, Town Attorney, and Georgetown Police
Department may forthwith suspend the permit pending hearing as provided for in
this chapter.
   (D)   Administrative liability. No officer, agent, or employee of the Town
of Georgetown, Indiana, shall render themselves personally liable for any
damage that may occur to persons or property, as a result of any act required
or permitted in the discharge of their duties under this chapter. Any suit
brought against any officer, agent, or employee of the Town of Georgetown,
Indiana, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of their
duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the Town Attorney until the
final determination of the proceedings therein.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.13 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any individual, firm, or corporation aggrieved by a decision in regard to
the denial or revocation of a permit as provided for herein shall have the
right to appeal to the Council. Appeal shall be taken by filing with the
Council, within fourteen days after notice of the decision has been mailed to
the last known address of the individual, firm, or corporation, a written
statement, setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing on the appeal and notice of the hearing shall be
given to the individual, firm, or corporation. The order of the Council on the
appeal shall be final.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.15 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Caterers, food delivery drivers, and other food service vehicles that
do not park or locate in any one place for longer than ten minutes are exempt
from the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   Lemonade stands, bake sales, and other stands operated by children for
the purpose of selling homemade foods are exempt from the jurisdiction of this
chapter.
   (C)   Mobile food vehicles hired by private individuals located on private
property wherein the food has been paid for in advance and the mobile food
vehicles will not be selling food to individual customers.
   (D)   Destination Georgetown's Farmer's Market Vendors.
   (E)   Religious, charitable, or non-profit organizations operating a
fundraising event on their property.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any individual, firm, or corporation convicted of a violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be fined in a sum not less than the applicable
amount set forth below:
      (1)   First Offense: $ 25.
      (2)   Second Offense: $100.
      (3)   Third Offense: $250.
      (4)   Fourth Offense: $500.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this chapter continues shall be considered a
separate offense. The Town of Georgetown, Indiana, shall also have the right to
recover the costs of administering this offense, including but not limited to,
filing fees and attorney fees.
(Ord. G-23-08, passed 8-21-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Loitering
   
130.01   No loitering zone; Marshal’s Department
   
130.02   No loitering zone; Fire Department
Skateboards
   
130.15   Prohibited locations
 
   
130.99   Penalty
LOITERING
§ 130.01 NO LOITERING ZONE; MARSHAL’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A “No Loitering” zone shall be established on any street, alleyway, or
sidewalk within a maximum 75-foot perimeter of the Town Marshal’s Department.
   (B)   The zone shall be marked by the town with a red marking.
(2005 Code, § 130.01) (Ord. G-94-19, passed 9-19-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 NO LOITERING ZONE; FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A “No Loitering” zone shall be established on any street, alleyway, or
sidewalk within a maximum 100-foot perimeter of the Volunteer Fire Department.
   (B)   The zone shall be marked by the town with a red marking.
(2005 Code, § 130.02) (Ord. G-94-18, passed 9-19-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
SKATEBOARDS
§ 130.15 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   The use of skateboards is prohibited on all public property owned by the
town, including all park lands, public sidewalks, roads, and alleys.
(2005 Code, § 130.15) (Ord. G-03-04, passed 3-18-2003; Ord. G-04-19, passed 6-
24-2004; Ord. G-21-06, passed 7-19-2021) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
130.01 shall be subject to being removed by order of the Town Marshal’s
Department.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
130.02 shall be subject to being removed by order of the Town Marshal’s
Department.
   (D)   (1)   Any person found to be in violation of §
130.15 shall be subject to a fine of $25 for each instance in which the person
is found to be in violation of that section.
      (2)   Any person found to have damaged or destroyed property of the town
while in violation of §
130.15 shall be liable to the town for the actual amount of damages suffered by
the town, in addition to any fine imposed.
      (3)   If any minor child is found to have damaged or destroyed property
of the town while in violation of §
130.15, the parents of the minor child shall be liable for the fine imposed on
the child as well as any actual damages to town property pursuant to I.C. 34-
31-4-1 and 34-31-4-2 and all successor statutes that may be enacted.
(2005 Code, § 130.99) (Ord. G-94-18, passed 9-19-1994; Ord. G-94-19, passed 9-
19-1994; Ord. G-03-04, passed 3-18-2003)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Firearms prohibited in Town Hall
Discharge of Firearms
   
131.15   Definition
   
131.16   Unlawful to discharge
   
131.17   Defense to violation
   
131.18   Defenses identified
 
   
131.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 FIREARMS PROHIBITED IN TOWN HALL.
   (A)   No person shall carry, possess, sell, or trade any firearm(s) inside
the Town Hall.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term FIREARM means any weapon that
is capable of or designed to, or that may be readily converted to, expel a
projectile by means of an explosion, pursuant to I.C. 35-47-1-5 and all
successor statutes that may be enacted.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the lawful performance of official
duties by an officer, agent, or employee of the United States, a state or a
political subdivision thereof, who is authorized by law to engage in or
supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of any
violation of law. Additionally, this section shall not apply to the possession
of a firearm by a federal, state, or local official or a member of the United
States armed forces if the possession is authorized by law.
   (D)   Notice of the prohibition of firearms shall be conspicuously posted at
each public entrance of the Town Hall, and no person shall be found to be in
violation of this section if the notice is not so posted.
(2005 Code, § 131.01) (Ord. G-03-32, passed 11-1-2003) Penalty, see §
131.99
DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS
§ 131.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARMS. Any pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun, machine gun, or other weapon
which uses gunpowder, gas, or their equivalent to propel any type of a
projectile.
(2005 Code, § 131.15) (Ord. G-90-3, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 131.16 UNLAWFUL TO DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm within the town
limits.
(2005 Code, § 131.16) (Ord. G-90-3, passed 5-14-1990) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.17 DEFENSE TO VIOLATION.
   It is a defense to any violation of this subchapter that: the person was
engaged in the defense of property or the defense of a person at the time the
firearm was discharged; the person was acting under legal authority to
discharge the firearm; or the discharge of the firearm is justified as using
reasonable force in effecting an arrest or preventing an escape.
(2005 Code, § 131.17) (Ord. G-90-3, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 131.18 DEFENSES IDENTIFIED.
   It is intended that any defense outlined in §
131.17 of this subchapter be those defenses established by state law and
codified in I.C. 35-41-3-1 et seq. and all successor statutes that may be
enacted.
(2005 Code, § 131.18) (Ord. G-90-3, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone found to be in violation of §
131.01 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500 for
each violation.
   (C)   Any person who violates §§
131.15 through
131.18 shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
(2005 Code, § 131.99) (Ord. G-90-3, passed 5-14-1990; Ord. G-03-32, passed 11-
1-2003)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
151.   BUILDING CODE
      
152.   UNSAFE BUILDING CODE
      
153.   STORM WATER PROTECTION
      
154.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
155.   MOBILE HOMES
      
156.   CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Comprehensive Plan; adopted
   
150.02   Subdivision regulations; adopted
   
150.03   Zoning Code; adopted
   
150.04   Temporary signs
   
150.05   Blasting
§ 150.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTED.
   The Town Council hereby approves and adopts the Comprehensive Plan, which is
attached to Ord. G-95-09 as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference as
if set out in full. A copy is available through town offices.
(2005 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. G-95-09, passed 10-2-1995; Ord. G-03-10, passed 5-
27-2003; Res. R-20-06, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 150.02 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED.
   The Town Council hereby approves and adopts the Subdivision Regulations,
which are attached to Ord. G-95-11 as Exhibit A and incorporated by reference
herein as if set out in full. A copy is available through town offices.
(2005 Code, § 150.02) (Ord. G-95-11, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 150.03 ZONING CODE; ADOPTED.
   The Town Council hereby approves and adopts the Zoning Ordinance, which is
attached to Ord. G-95-10 as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference as
if set out in full. A copy is available through town offices.
(2005 Code, § 150.03) (Ord. G-95-10, passed 10-2-1995; Ord. G-99-06, passed 6-
22-1999; Ord. G-03-09, passed 5-27-2003; Ord. 2004-CR-16, passed 6-24-2004;
Ord. G-05-29, passed 10-20-2005; Ord. G-05-35, passed 12-15-2005; Ord. G-06-01,
passed 1-19-2006; Ord. G-06-14, passed 4-20-2006; Ord. G-06-15, passed 4-20-
2006; Ord. G-07-04, passed 2-15-2007; Ord. G-07-05, passed 2-15-2007; Ord. G-
07-09, passed 3-15-2007; Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 150.04 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   The ordinance concerning temporary signs is hereby adopted by reference
herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. G-11-16, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 150.05 BLASTING.
   (A)   Licensing. When blasting is required to excavate rock, the contractor
(s) shall comply fully with the provisions of the laws and regulations
governing explosives and blasting, as ordained and issued by the state under
the provisions of the I.C. 22-10-6 et seq., to include, but not be limited to
obtaining the necessary permits from the state and ensuring operations
personnel are duly licensed by the state.
   (B)   Notification. 
      (1)   No less than two weeks prior to any blasting, a pre-blast survey of
potentially affected homeowners and properties shall be conducted by the
contractor(s) or his or her agent.
      (2)   The general contractor shall provide the Building Commissioner with
the name of the agency and person(s) who will be performing the survey. The
Building Commissioner shall provide the person(s) performing the pre-blast
survey an original letter of introduction to identify him or her to the
residents. No copies of the letter shall be permitted. The pre-blast survey
shall be completed not less than five days prior to the beginning of blasting.
      (3)   Property owners/tenants living within 1,000 feet of the parcel
property line in any direction in which the blasting is being performed shall
be notified of the upcoming blasting scheduled, to include the beginning date,
the proposed ending date, and any specifics on the time of day blasting will
occur by the contractor or his or her agent. The affected property owners will
be instructed by the contractor to only accept an original letter of
introduction on the town’s letterhead. The contractor shall furnish to the
town, upon request, all photographs taken and reports made during the pre-blast
and post-blast surveys, without any additional cost to the town.
   (C)   Insurance. No blasting shall be done unless proper insurance has been
secured and is in force, with proof of insurance provided to the Building
Commissioner. Except with written permission of the Building Commissioner, no
blasting will be permitted during the hours of darkness nor any time on
Sundays.
   (D)   Preventive procedures. During blasting operations, every precaution
shall be used for the protection of persons and private and public property.
Each blast shall be well covered with mats and other suitable means to confine
the rock fragments. Only the minimum amounts of explosives shall be used to
shatter the rock. The contractor shall monitor the blasts to ensure that
excessive charges are not being used. The debris from the blasting operations
shall be disposed of properly, in accordance with state regulations and
standards.
   (E)   Disputes. 
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to imply or infer that
the town has any responsibilities for reparations should damage occur as a
result of any blasting.
      (2)   Any damage allegations are a conflict between the property owner
alleging damage and the contractor, and/or their respective insurance
companies.
      (3)   This section is purely a requirement for due notification of
pending explosive work.
   (F)   Style and form of notice. The letter from the general contractor to
the affected citizens shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   Dates blasting is scheduled to occur;
      (2)   Hours of blasting;
      (3)   Notice to residents that they need to document the existing
condition of their property prior to blasting beginning (e.g., photographs);
and
      (4)   The name and address of the general contractor, the blasting
contractor, the supervisors of the blasting, insurance companies insuring the
blasting, and attorneys for the general contractor.
(Ord. G-05-34, passed 11-17-2005; Ord. G-11-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.999
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Definitions
   
151.004   Authority
   
151.005   Building Commissioner
   
151.006   Scope
   
151.007   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
   
151.008   Effective date
Building Permits; Licensing
   
151.020   Building permit required
   
151.021   Application for building permit
   
151.022   Issuance of building permit
   
151.023   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.024   Posting of permit numbers
   
151.025   Permit expiration
   
151.026   Demolition permits
   
151.027   Ratification of amendments to County Ordinance 1997-F.O.-XI
Investigations and Inspections of Construction Activities
   
151.040   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
151.041   Inspections by Fire Department
   
151.042   Periodic inspections
   
151.043   Connection without approval of Inspector
   
151.044   Disconnection of service
Enforcement; Appeals
   
151.055   Withhold issuance of permits
   
151.056   Permit revocation
   
151.057   Stop-work order
   
151.058   Civil action
   
151.059   Right of appeal
Minimum Construction Standards
   
151.070   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.071   Lifting devices located within a private residence
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the “Building Code of Georgetown, Indiana”, or “this chapter”, or “chapter”.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the life, public safety, health,
and general welfare of the citizens of the town and shall be construed in such
a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Building
Department that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. 
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4, means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be, or is, occupied
or otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public;
            2.   Three or more tenants; or
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a)1. above;
and
         (c)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (1)
(a)1. above, except buildings or structures described in divisions (3) through
(6) below.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above includes a structure that contains three or
more condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be, or are, used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a building or structure
that:
         (a)   Is intended to be, or is, used only for an agricultural purpose
on the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a structure that is intended
to be, or is, occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within, and affixed
to, the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. 
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or
structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure;
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1) above,
such as a garage, barn, or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure; and
         (c)   Division (1) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, means any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site;
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used;
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication, or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class
2 structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate, or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; and
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, means any part
of a building or other structure that is in whole, or in substantial part,
fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly
at the building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or
another building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile
structure or a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16 has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. § 5402 as it existed on January 1, 2003. This definition is as
follows: MANUFACTURED HOME means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or
40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on-site, is 320 or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements
and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification
required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with
the standards established under this 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq. and except that
such term shall not include any self-propelled recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, has the following definition:
      (1)   Any part of a fabricated unit that is designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; and
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, means an individual, corporation,
limited liability company, partnership, unincorporated association, or
governmental entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, means any bridge that is
neither:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles; suspended between two or more
parts of a building or between two or more buildings.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.004 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following: all of the provisions of this chapter; variances
granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and orders issued under the state
code.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.005 BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Town Council shall appoint, from time to time, a Building
Commissioner, with reasonable compensation for such services.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall report to the Town Council President.
   (C)   This section went into effect December 1, 2010.
(Ord. G-10-18, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 151.006 SCOPE.
   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this chapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this chapter and the rules promulgated by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this chapter is not applicable
to regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels,
or regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.007 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this chapter of any other
ordinance, or part of any other ordinance, does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter. These rights, liabilities, and other
proceedings are continued and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the
repealed or amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.008 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after the date on
which both of the following have occurred: the Town Council has adopted this
chapter; and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state
has approved of this chapter as required by I.C. 22-13-2-5.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
BUILDING PERMITS; LICENSING
§ 151.020 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction.
Commencement of construction prior to obtaining a permit shall be subject to
the penalties provided in §
151.999.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.021 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished;
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs, and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such
streets, curbs, and sidewalks;
      (4)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3;
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws; and
      (6)   The fee specific to the type of permit being applied for. The fee
for each improvement location permit, electrical fees, plumbing fees, and HVAC
fees shall be paid to, and collected by, the Building Commissioner. The
schedule of fees is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein,
and a copy is available in town offices.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.022 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee,
provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable building
laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.023 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be issued
unless such building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or
structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.024 POSTING OF PERMIT NUMBERS.
   Where a permit has been issued by the Building Commissioner, the number of
the permit must be conspicuously posted at the premises where work is being
performed.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.025 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   (A)   (1)   All permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall automatically
expire nine months from the date of issuance.
      (2)   Permits which have expired may be renewed.
      (3)   A renewed permit shall be at the same cost as the original permit.
   (B)   (1)   A permit holder may petition the Building Commissioner for a
waiver or reduction of the fee associated with a permit renewal if the permit
expired due to some circumstance or event beyond the control of the permit
holder.
      (2)   Each petition shall be evaluated on a case-by-case basis,
considering all relevant factors.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.026 DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may approve permits authorizing the
destruction and/or removal of buildings and structures at the cost of $25 for
residential buildings/structures consisting of 300 square feet or more, and
only upon proof of insurance in an amount to be determined by the Building
Commissioner.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may approve permits authorizing the
destruction and/or removal of buildings and structures at the cost of $50 for
commercial or industrial buildings/structures consisting of 300 square feet or
more, and only upon proof of insurance in an amount to be determined by the
Building Commissioner.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.027 RATIFICATION OF AMENDMENTS TO COUNTY ORDINANCE 1997-F.O.-XI.
   The amendment of County Ord. No. 1997-F.O.-XI (concerning residential
construction permits for sewage disposal systems) is hereby ratified by the
town and shall apply within the town under the jurisdiction of the County
Health Department.
(Ord. G-10-06, passed 4-12-2010)
INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 151.040 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
    (B)   The Building Commissioner may, at any reasonable time, go in, upon,
around, or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this chapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this chapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission.
   (C)   If the Building Commissioner observes a situation involving building
safety which in his or her professional opinion merits investigation, the
Commissioner shall make appropriate inspection and/or inquiries as deemed
necessary.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.041 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work cooperatively
to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire
safety laws. (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.)
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.042 PERIODIC INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall make or cause to be made periodic inspections of the work
performed under the permit as are necessary to ensure full compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and the terms of the permit.
   (B)   The types of periodic inspections are as follows.
      (1)   Foundation inspection. This type of inspection is made after poles
or piers are set or trenches or basement areas are excavated and forms erected
and any reinforcing steel is in place prior to the placement of concrete.
      (2)   Concrete slab inspection. This type of inspection is made after all
in-slab or under-floor building service equipment items are in place and before
placement of concrete.
      (3)   Electrical rough-in inspection. This type of inspection is made
after elements of the electrical system that will be concealed by construction
are installed and are visible for inspection.
      (4)   HVAC rough-in inspection. This type of inspection is made after
heating pipes, chimneys, vents, and ducts are installed and are visible for
inspection.
      (5)   Plumbing rough-in inspection. This type of inspection is made after
rough plumbing has been installed and is still visible for inspection.
      (6)   Framing rough-in inspection. This type of inspection is made after
the roof, all framing, fire blocking, and bracing are in place and complete.
All other rough-in construction shall be complete prior to this inspection.
      (7)   Final inspections. These types of inspections shall be made once
the structure is complete in order to verify compliance with all applicable
codes. These inspections shall be made and approved prior to a certificate of
occupancy being issued.
      (8)   Re-inspections. These types of inspections are made to verify that
corrections have been made.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.043 CONNECTION WITHOUT APPROVAL OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   No person shall make any electrical connection to any electrical
equipment (except small plug-in appliances) until the Building Commissioner has
given approval.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner is authorized to disconnect any electrical
installation or equipment which has been connected before the approval for
service has been given. He or she shall thereupon attach notice, which shall
state that the wiring or apparatus has been disconnected by the Inspector. Any
person removing the notice and/or reconnecting the wiring of apparatus before
it has the approval of the Building Commissioner shall be liable to the
penalties of this chapter.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.044 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner is empowered to disconnect, or order the
discontinuance of, electrical service to any conductors or apparatus found to
be in a dangerous or unsafe condition, or which have been installed without
permit, or not in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   He or she shall thereupon attach a notice stating that the conductors
or apparatus have been disconnected.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
ENFORCEMENT; APPEALS
§ 151.055 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees owed pursuant to §
151.022, and/or fees owed pursuant to
Chapter 156, the Building Commissioner may withhold the issuance of
subsequently requested permits until such time that the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.056 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans, or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
   (B)   The application, plans, or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
   (C)   There is failure to comply with this chapter; or
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.057 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this chapter or any state
law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this chapter or in such a
manner that, if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
and/or
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.058 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.059 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter shall have
the right to petition for review of any order of the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Such a person may file a petition using either, or both, of the
following procedures.
      (1)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter may
appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
town that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C.
22-15, a fire safety, or a building rule.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
         (d)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this chapter.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any
statute in which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the
order.
      (2)   Appeal to the Town Building Commission pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9. A
person aggrieved by an order from the Building Commissioner may petition for
review by the Building Commission.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 151.070 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the state’s Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles
of Title 675 of the I.A.C. are hereby incorporated by reference in this code
and shall include any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
         (b)   State Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - State Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16 - State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 - State Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18 - State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 - State Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20 - State Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22 - State Fire Code;
      (9)   Article 24 - Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code; and
      (10)   Article 25 - State Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this chapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted by
the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.071 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators, published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016;
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016; and
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the legislative
body for public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to a
fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500.
   (C)   The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the
operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
   (D)   If a building or structure is occupied without a certificate of
occupancy a flat rate fine will be imposed. One hundred dollars for residential
construction and $1,000 for commercial or industrial construction will be
charged to the person, firm, or corporation on record as the building permit
holder. Each day constitutes a separate violation and shall be subject to all
penal provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. G-06-34, passed 11-16-2006)
CHAPTER 152: UNSAFE BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   General prohibition
   
152.03   Definitions
Orders
   
152.15   Contents; notice; expiration
   
152.16   Modification or rescission of orders
   
152.17   Hearing; extension of time limits; performance bonds; record of
findings and action
   
152.18   Emergency action; recovery of costs; challenge of determination of
emergency
   
152.19   Action to enforce orders
   
152.20   Performance of work required by orders; procedure
Financial Liabilities
   
152.35   Liability for costs for ordered work
   
152.36   Notice of unpaid costs; filing with Clerk of Court; hearing; judgment
lien
   
152.37   Unpaid repairs; special assessment; collection as delinquent taxes;
disposition of collections
   
152.38   Unsafe Building Fund
Enforcement
   
152.50   Inspection warrants
   
152.51   Civil actions regarding unsafe premises
   
152.52   Manner of serving notice
   
152.53   Recording of orders; statements of rescission, public bids; records of
actions taken
   
152.54   Transfers of property by person not complying with orders
   
152.55   Appeals
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall be
known as the “Unsafe Building Code of the town”, hereinafter “Unsafe Building
Code”, and may be cited as such or “this chapter” or “chapter”.
(2005 Code, § 152.01) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.02 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any building of any kind to remain in a
manner in which the structure constitutes a hazard to public health, safety,
and welfare.
(2005 Code, § 152.02) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Building Commissioner or any agents thereof.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Town Council of the Town of Georgetown, Indiana.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter; including
a fee interest, a life estate, a future interest, a present possessory
interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
   UNSAFE BUILDING.
      (1)   A building or structure, or any part of a building or structure,
that is any of the following:
         (a)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
         (b)   A fire hazard;
         (c)   A hazard to the public health;
         (d)   A public nuisance;
         (e)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building conditions or maintenance; and/or
         (f)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance.
      (2)   Additionally, any building or structure which has any or all the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an UNSAFE
BUILDING, provided that the conditions or defects exist to the extent that
life, health, property, or safety of the public or its occupants are
endangered:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle passageway, or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size, or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (b)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion
thereof, due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times
the working stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure,
purpose, or location;
         (c)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood, or by other cause to the extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before the
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
         (e)   Whenever any portion of a building or any member, appurtenance,
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location, without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for the buildings;
         (f)   Whenever any portion thereof has cracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to the extent that walls or other structural portions have materially
less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar
new construction;
         (g)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of the following is likely to partially or completely collapse:
            1.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
            2.   Faulty construction;
            3.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting the building;
            4.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
            5.   Any other cause.
         (h)   Whenever for any reason the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
         (i)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to the extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
         (j)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing or
outside walls, or coverings;
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons
for the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
         (l)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirements or prohibition
applicable to the building or structure provided by the building regulations of
the town, or of any law or ordinance of this state or municipality relating to
the condition, location, or structure of buildings;
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws or ordinances, has in any nonsupporting
part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member, or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, and
occupancy in the same location;
         (n)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise is determined by the County Health
Department or its officers to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in
a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (o)   Whenever any building or structure because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause is determined by the concerned Fire
Department to be a fire hazard; or
         (p)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute the building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
   UNSAFE PREMISES. The tract of real property on which an unsafe building is
located.
(2005 Code, § 152.03) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
ORDERS
§ 152.15 CONTENTS; NOTICE; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   The enforcement authority may issue an order requiring action relative
to any unsafe premises, including the following actions, in accordance with
standards established by ordinance:
      (1)   Vacating of an unsafe building;
      (2)   Sealing an unsafe building against intrusion by unauthorized
persons;
      (3)   Extermination of vermin in and about the unsafe premises;
      (4)   Removal of trash, debris, or fire hazardous material in and about
the unsafe premises;
      (5)   Repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building to bring it into
compliance with standards for building condition or maintenance required for
human habitation, occupancy, or use by a statute, a rule adopted under I.C. 4-
22-2, and successor statutes as they may be enacted, or an ordinance;
      (6)   Removal of part of an unsafe building;
      (7)   Removal of an unsafe building; and
      (8)   Requiring, for an unsafe building that will be sealed for a period
more than 90 days:
         (a)   Sealing against intrusion by unauthorized persons and the
effects of weather;
         (b)   Exterior improvements to make the building compatible in
appearance with other buildings in the area; and
         (c)   Continuing maintenance and upkeep of the building and premises.
   (B)   Notice of the order must be given in accordance with §
152.52. Notice of the ordered action must be reasonably related to the
condition of the unsafe premises and the nature and use of nearby properties.
The order supersedes any permit relating to building or land use, whether that
permit is obtained before or after the order is issued.
   (C)   The order must contain:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that is the
subject of the order;
      (3)   The action that the order requires;
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time when the notice of the order is given;
      (5)   If a hearing is required, a statement indicating the exact time and
place of the hearing, and stating that the person to whom the order was issued
is entitled to appear at the hearing with or without legal counsel, present
evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and present arguments;
      (6)   If a hearing is not required, a statement that an order under
divisions (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) above becomes final ten days after notice
is given, unless a hearing is requested in writing by a person holding a fee
interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser
in the unsafe premises, and the request is delivered to the enforcement
authority before the end of the ten-day period;
      (7)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
enforcement authority if the order is not complied with;
      (8)   A statement indicating the obligation created by §
152.54 relating to notification of subsequent interest holders and the
enforcement authority; and
      (9)   The name, address, and telephone number of the enforcement
authority.
   (D)   The order must allow a sufficient time of at least ten days from the
time when notice of the order is given to accomplish the required action. If
the order allows more than 30 days to accomplish the action, the order may
require that a substantial beginning be made in accomplishing the action within
30 days.
   (E)   The order expires two years from the day the notice of the order is
given, unless one or more of the following events occurs within that two-year
period:
      (1)   A complaint requesting judicial review is filed under §
152.18;
      (2)   A contract for action required by the order is let at public bid
under §
152.20; or
      (3)   A civil action is filed under §
152.51.
(2005 Code, § 152.15) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.16 MODIFICATION OR RESCISSION OF ORDERS.
   (A)   The enforcement authority may issue an order that modifies the order
previously issued.
   (B)   The enforcement authority may rescind an order previously issued, even
if the order has been affirmed by the hearing authority.
(2005 Code, § 152.16) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.17 HEARING; EXTENSION OF TIME LIMITS; PERFORMANCE BONDS; RECORD OF
FINDINGS AND ACTION.
   (A)   (1)   A hearing must be held relative to each order of the enforcement
authority, except for an order issued under §
152.15(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4).
      (2)   An order issued under §
152.15(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) becomes final ten days after notice is given,
unless a hearing is requested before the ten-day period ends by a person
holding a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a
contract purchaser in the unsafe premises.
      (3)   The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing authority.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held on a business day no earlier than ten days
after notice of the order is given. The hearing authority may, however, take
action at the hearing, or before the hearing if a written request is received
by the enforcement authority not later than five days after notice is given, to
continue the hearing to a business day not later than 14 days after the hearing
date shown on the order. Unless the hearing authority takes action to have the
continued hearing held on a definite, specified date, notice of the continued
hearing must be given to the person to whom the order was issued at least five
days before the continued hearing date, in the manner prescribed by §
152.52. If the order being considered at the continued hearing was served by
publication, it is sufficient to give notice of the continued hearing by
publication unless the enforcement authority has received information in
writing that enables it to make service under §
152.52 by a method other than publication.
   (C)   The person to whom the order was issued, any person having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises that is subject of the
order, or any other person with an interest in the proceedings may appear in
person or by counsel at the hearing. Each person appearing at the hearing is
entitled to present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and present
arguments.
   (D)   At the conclusion of any hearing at which a continuance is not
granted, the hearing authority may make findings and take action to:
      (1)   Affirm the order;
      (2)   Rescind the order; or
      (3)   Modify the order; but unless the person to whom the order was
issued or counsel for that person is present at the hearing, the hearing
authority may modify the order in only a manner that makes its terms less
stringent.
   (E)   If, at a hearing, a person to whom an order has been issued requests
an additional period to accomplish action required by the order, and shows good
cause for the request to be granted, the hearing authority may grant the
request. However, as a condition for allowing the additional period, the
hearing authority may require that the person post a performance bond, to be
forfeited if the action required by the order is not completed within the
additional period.
   (F)   The Town Council shall, at a public hearing, after having given notice
of the time and place of the hearing by publication in accordance with I.C. 5-
3-1, and successor statutes as they may be enacted, adopt a schedule setting
forth the maximum amount of performance bonds applicable to various types of
ordered action. The hearing authority shall use this schedule to fix the amount
of the performance bond required under division (E) above.
   (G)   The record of the findings made and action taken by the hearing
authority at the hearing shall be available to the public upon request.
However, neither the enforcement authority nor the hearing authority is
required to give any person notice of the findings and action.
   (H)   A civil penalty under division (D) above may be collected in the same
manner as costs under §
152.36. The amount of the civil penalty that is collected shall be deposited in
the Unsafe Building Fund.
(2005 Code, § 152.17) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 EMERGENCY ACTION; RECOVERY OF COSTS; CHALLENGE OF DETERMINATION OF
EMERGENCY.
   (A)   If the enforcement authority finds it necessary to take emergency
action concerning an unsafe premises in order to protect life, safety, or
property, it may take that action without issuing an order or giving notice.
However, this emergency action must be limited to removing any immediate
danger.
   (B)   The town may recover the costs incurred by the enforcement authority
in taking emergency action by filing a civil action in the Circuit Court or
Superior Court of the county against the persons who held a fee interest, life
estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe
premises at the time the enforcement authority found it necessary to take
emergency action.
   (C)   (1)   If an unsafe premises poses an immediate danger to the life or
safety of persons occupying or using nearby property, the enforcement authority
may, without following this chapter’s requirements for issuing an order and
giving notice, take emergency action to require persons to vacate and not use
the nearby property until the danger has passed.
      (2)   However, any persons required to vacate an unsafe premises under
this division (C) may challenge, in an emergency court proceeding, the
enforcement authority’s determination that the premises poses an immediate
danger to the life or safety of any person. In an emergency court proceeding,
the enforcement authority has the burden of proving that emergency action is
necessary to protect from immediate danger the life or safety of persons
occupying or using nearby property.
(2005 Code, § 152.18) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.19 ACTION TO ENFORCE ORDERS.
   (A)   The enforcement authority may cause the action required by an order
issued under §
152.15(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) to be performed by a contractor if:
      (1)   The order has been served, in the manner prescribed by §
152.52, on each person having a fee interest, life estate interest, or
equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises that is the
subject of the order;
      (2)   The order has not been complied with;
      (3)   A hearing was not requested under §
152.15(C)(6) or, if a hearing was requested, the order was affirmed at the
hearing; and
      (4)   The order is not being reviewed under §
152.55.
   (B)   The enforcement authority may cause the action required by an order,
other than an order under §
152.15(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), to be performed if:
      (1)   Service of an order, in the manner prescribed by §
152.52, has been made on each person having a substantial property interest in
the unsafe premises that is subject of the order;
      (2)   The order has been affirmed or modified at the hearing in such a
manner that all persons having a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises that is the subject of the order are currently subject to an order
requiring the accomplishment of substantially identical action;
      (3)   The order, as affirmed or modified at the hearing, has not been
complied with; and
      (4)   The order is not being reviewed under §
152.55.
   (C)   If action is being taken under this section on the basis of an order
that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve the statement that
the enforcement authority intends to perform the work by publication, unless
the authority has received information in writing that enables it to make
service under §
152.52 by a method other than publication.
(2005 Code, § 152.19) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.20 PERFORMANCE OF WORK REQUIRED BY ORDERS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The work required by an order of the enforcement authority may be
performed in the following manners:
      (1)   If the work is being performed under an order other than an order
under §
152.15(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), and if the cost of the work is estimated to be
less than $5,000, the enforcement authority or other agent may perform the work
by means of its own workers and equipment owned or leased by it. Notice that
the work is to be performed must be given to all persons with a substantial
property interest, in the manner prescribed in division (C) below, at least ten
days before the date of performance of the work by the enforcement authority.
This notice must include a statement that an amount representing a reasonable
estimate of the cost incurred by the enforcement authority in processing the
matter and performing the work may, if not paid, be recorded after a hearing as
a lien against all persons having a fee interest, life estate interest, or
equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises.
      (2)   If the work is being performed under an order other than an order
under §
152.15(A)(2), (A)(3). or (A)(4), and if the estimated cost of this work is
$5,000 or more, this work must be let at public bid to a contractor licensed
and qualified under law. The obligation to pay costs imposed by §
152.35 is based on the condition of the unsafe premises at the time the public
bid was accepted. Changes occurring in the condition of the unsafe premises
after the public bid was accepted do not eliminate or diminish this obligation.
      (3)   If the work is being performed under an order issued under §
152.15(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), the work may be performed by a contractor who
has been awarded a base bid contract to perform the work for the enforcement
authority, or by the Town Council, acting through its enforcement authority or
other governmental agency and using its own workers and equipment owned or
leased by it. Work performed under an order issued under §
152.15(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) may be performed without further notice to the
persons holding a fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a
contract purchaser, and these persons are liable for the cost incurred by the
enforcement authority in processing the matter and performing the work, as
provided by §
152.35.
   (B)   Bids may be solicited and accepted for work on more than one property
if the bid reflects an allocation of the bid amount among the various unsafe
premises in proportion to the work to be accomplished. The part of the bid
amount attributable to each of the unsafe premises constitutes the basis for
calculating the part of the costs described by §
152.35(A)(1) of this chapter.
   (C)   All persons who have a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises and are subject to an order other than an order under §
152.15(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) must be notified about the public bid in the
manner prescribed by §
152.52, by means of a written statement including:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order was issued;
      (2)   A legal description or address of the unsafe premises that is the
subject of the order;
      (3)   A statement that a contract is to be let at public bid to a
licensed contractor to accomplish work to comply with the order;
      (4)   A description of work to be accomplished;
      (5)   A statement that both the bid price of the licensed contractor who
accomplishes the work and an amount representing a reasonable estimate of the
cost incurred by the enforcement authority in processing the matter of the
unsafe premises may, if not paid, be recorded after a hearing as a lien against
all persons having a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest
of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises;
      (6)   The time of the bid opening;
      (7)   The place of the bid opening; and
      (8)   The name, address, and telephone number of the enforcement
authority.
   (D)   If the notice of the statement that public bids are to be let is
served by publication, the publication must include the information required by
division (C) above, except that it need only include a general description of
the work to be accomplished. The publication must also state that a copy of the
statement of the public bid may be obtained from the enforcement authority.
   (E)   Notice of the statement that public bids are to be let must be given,
at least ten days before the date of the public bid, to all persons who have a
substantial property interest in the property and are subject to an order other
than an order under §
152.15(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4).
   (F)   If action is being taken under this section on the basis of an order
that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve the statement that
public bids are to be let by publication, unless the enforcement authority has
received information in writing that enables it to make service under §
152.52 by a method other than publication.
(2005 Code, § 152.20) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
§ 152.35 LIABILITY FOR COSTS FOR ORDERED WORK.
   (A)   When action required by order is performed by the enforcement
authority or by a contractor acting under §
152.20, each person who held a fee interest, life estate, or equitable interest
of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises from the time when the order
requiring the work performed was recorded to the time that the work was
completed is jointly and severally responsible for the following costs:
      (1)   The actual cost of the work performed by the enforcement authority
or the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor under §
152.20; and
      (2)   An amount that represents a reasonable forecast of the average
processing expense that will be incurred by the enforcement authority in taking
the technical, administrative, and legal actions concerning typical unsafe
premises that are necessary under this chapter so that the action required by
an order may be performed by a contractor under §
152.20. In calculating the amount of the average processing expense, the
following costs may be considered:
         (a)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity
and location of persons who own substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises;
         (b)   The cost of notice of orders, notice of statements of
rescission, notice of continued hearing, notice of statements that public bids
are to be let or that the enforcement authority intends to accomplish the work,
and notice that a hearing may be held on the amounts indicated in the record,
in accordance with §
152.52;
         (c)   Salaries for employees; and
         (d)   The cost of supplies, equipment, and office space.
   (B)   The Town Council for the town shall determine the amount of the
average processing expense at the public hearing, after notice has been given
in the same manner as is required for other official action by the Town
Council. In determining the average processing expense, the Town Council may
fix the amount as a full dollar amount that is an even multiple of ten.
(2005 Code, § 152.30) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.36 NOTICE OF UNPAID COSTS; FILING WITH CLERK OF COURT; HEARING; JUDGMENT
LIEN.
   (A)   (1)   If all or any part of the costs listed in §
152.35 remain unpaid for any unsafe premises (other than premises owned by a
governmental entity) for more than 15 days after the completion of the work,
the enforcement authority does not act under §
152.37, and the enforcement authority determines that there is a reasonable
probability of obtaining recovery, the enforcement authority shall prepare a
record stating:
         (a)   The name and last known address of each person who held a fee
interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser
in the unsafe premises from the time the order requiring the work to be
performed was recorded to the time that the work was completed;
         (b)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that was
the subject of work;
         (c)   The nature of the work that was accomplished;
         (d)   The amount of the unpaid bid price of the work that was
accomplished; and
         (e)   The amount of the unpaid average processing expense.
      (2)   The record must be in a form approved by the State Board of
Accounts.
   (B)   The enforcement authority or its head shall swear to the accuracy of
the record before the Clerk of the Circuit Court and deposit the record in the
Clerk’s office. Notice that the record has been filed and that a hearing on the
amounts indicated in the record may be held must be sent to the persons named
in the record, in the manner prescribed by §
152.52.
   (C)   A judgment by the Circuit Court, to the extent that it is not
satisfied under I.C. 27-2-15-1 et seq., and successor statutes as they may be
enacted, is a debt and a lien on all the real and personal property of the
person named, or a joint and several debt and lien on real and personal
property of the persons named. The lien on real property is perfected against
all creditors and purchasers when the judgment is entered on the judgment
docket of the court. The lien on personal property is perfected by filing a lis
pendens notice in the appropriate filing office, as prescribed by the State
Rules of Trial Procedure.
(2005 Code, § 152.31) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.37 UNPAID REPAIRS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; COLLECTION AS DELINQUENT TAXES;
DISPOSITION OF COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   This section does not apply to the collection of an amount if a court
determines under §
152.36 that the enforcement authority is not entitled to the amount.
   (B)   If all or any part of the costs listed in §
152.35 remain unpaid for any unsafe premises (other than unsafe premises owned
by a governmental entity) for more than 15 days after completion of the work,
the enforcement authority may send notice under §
152.52 to each person who held a fee interest, life estate interest or an
equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises. The notice
must require full payment of the amount owed within 30 days.
   (C)   If full payment of the amount owed is not made less than 30 days after
the notice is delivered, the enforcement officer may certify the following
information to the County Auditor:
      (1)   The name of each person who held a fee interest, life estate
interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises;
      (2)   The description of the unsafe premises, as shown by the records of
the County Auditor; and
      (3)   The amount of the delinquent payment, including all costs described
in §
152.35.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall place the total amount certified under
division (C) above on the tax duplicate for the affected property as a special
assessment. The total amount, including accrued interest, shall be collected as
delinquent taxes are collected.
   (E)   An amount collected under division (D) above, after all other taxes
have been collected and disbursed, shall be disbursed to the Unsafe Building
Fund.
(2005 Code, § 152.32) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.38 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   The Unsafe Building Fund is hereby created.
   (B)   (1)   Money for the Unsafe Building Fund may be received from any
source, including appropriations by local, state, or federal governments and
donations. The Unsafe Building Fund shall also be established in the operating
budget. Any balance remaining at the end of a fiscal year shall be carried over
in the fund for the following year and does not revert to the General Fund.
      (2)   The following money shall be deposited in the Fund:
         (a)   Money received as payment for, or settlement of, obligations or
judgments established under §§
152.18 through
152.20,
152.35,
152.36, and I.C. 36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22, and successor statutes as they
may be enacted;
         (b)   Money received from bonds posted under I.C. 36-7-9-20 and
successor statutes as they may be enacted;
         (c)   Money received in satisfaction of receivers’ notes or
certificates that were issued under I.C. 36-7-9-20, and successor statutes as
they may be enacted, and were purchased with money from the Unsafe Building
Fund;
         (d)   Money received for payment or settlement of civil penalties
imposed under §
152.17; and
         (e)   Money received from the collection of special assessments under
§
152.37.
   (C)   Money in the Unsafe Building Fund may be used for the expenses
incurred in carrying out the purposes of this chapter, including:
      (1)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity and
location of each person who owns a substantial property interest in unsafe
premises;
      (2)   The cost of an examination of an unsafe building by a registered
architect or registered engineer not employed by the town;
      (3)   The cost of surveys necessary to determine the location and
dimensions of real property on which an unsafe building is located;
      (4)   The cost of giving notice of orders, notice of statements of
rescission, notice of continued hearing and notice of statements that public
bids are to be let in the manner prescribed by §
152.52;
      (5)   The bid price of work by a contractor under §§
152.19 or
152.51;
      (6)   The cost of emergency action under §
152.18; and
      (7)   The cost of notes or receivers’ certificates issued under I.C. 36-
7-9-20 and successor statutes as they may be enacted.
   (D)   Payment of money from the Unsafe Building Fund must be made in
accordance with applicable law.
(2005 Code, § 152.33) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.50 INSPECTION WARRANTS.
   (A)   If the owners or those in possession of a building refuse inspection,
an inspection officer of the enforcement authority may seek an inspection
warrant from any court of record in the county in which the building is located
in order to determine if the building is an unsafe building.
   (B)   (1)   The person seeking the warrant must establish that the building
to be searched or inspected is to be searched or inspected as part of a legally
authorized program of inspection that naturally includes the building, or that
there is probable cause for believing that a condition, object, activity, or
circumstance legally justifies a search or inspection of that building; and
      (2)   An affidavit establishing one of the grounds described in division
(B)(1) above must be signed under oath or affirmation by the affiant.
(2005 Code, § 152.45) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.51 CIVIL ACTIONS REGARDING UNSAFE PREMISES.
   The Town Council, acting through the enforcement authority or a person
designated by the enforcement authority, may bring a civil action regarding
unsafe premises in the Circuit, Superior, or Municipal Court of the county.
Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-18 through 36-7-9-22 and successor statutes as they may
be enacted, the civil action may request injunctions, civil forfeitures,
appointment of receiver, court order authorizing performance of work and
judgment of cost, and/or an emergency court order authorizing action to make
premises safe and judgment for costs.
(2005 Code, § 152.46) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.52 MANNER OF SERVING NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of orders, notice of continued hearings without specified date,
notice of a statement that public bids are to be let, and notice of claims for
payment must be given by:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the order or statement by registered or certified
mail to the residence or place of business or employment of the person to be
notified, with return receipt requested;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the order or statement personally to the
person to be notified; or
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the order or statement at the dwelling or usual
place of abode of the person to be notified.
   (B)   (1)   If, after a reasonable effort, service is not obtained by a
means described in division (A) above, service may be made by publishing a
notice of the order or statement in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 et seq., and
successor statutes as they may be enacted, in the county where the unsafe
premises are located. However, publication may be made on consecutive days.
      (2)   If service of an order is made by publication, the publication must
include the information required by §
152.15(C)(1), (C)(2), (C)(4), (C)(5), (C)(6), (C)(7), and (C)(9), and must also
include a statement indicating generally what action is required by the order
and that the exact terms of the order may be obtained from the enforcement
authority.
   (C)   When service is made by any means described in this section, except by
mailing or by publication, the person making service must make an affidavit
stating that he or she has made the service, the manner in which service was
made, to whom the order or statement was issued, the nature of the order or
statement, and the date of service. The affidavit must be placed on file with
the enforcement authority.
   (D)   The date when notice of the order or statement is considered given is
as follows.
      (1)   If the order or statement is delivered personally or left at the
dwelling or usual place of abode, notice is considered given on the day when
the order or statement is delivered to the person or left at his or her
dwelling or usual place of abode.
      (2)   If the order or statement is mailed, notice is considered given on
the date shown on the return receipt or, if no date is shown, on the date when
the return receipt is received by the enforcement authority.
      (3)   Notice of publication is considered given on the date of the second
day that publication was made.
   (E)   (1)   Notice of orders, notice of continued hearings without a
specified date, and notice of a statement that public bids are to be let need
not be given to a person holding a property interest in an unsafe premises, if:
         (a)   No instrument reflecting the property interest held by the
person is recorded in the Recorder’s office of the county where the unsafe
premises is located;
         (b)   The order or statement was recorded in accordance with §
152.53; and
         (c)   The enforcement authority has received neither written
information nor actual notice of the identity of the person who holds a
property interest in the unsafe premises.
      (2)   A person who failed to record an instrument reflecting an interest
in his or her unsafe premises is considered to consent to action taken under
this chapter relative to which notice would otherwise be given.
(2005 Code, § 152.47) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.53 RECORDING OF ORDERS; STATEMENTS OF RESCISSION, PUBLIC BIDS; RECORDS OF
ACTIONS TAKEN.
   (A)   The enforcement authority shall record, in the office of the County
Recorder, orders issued under §§
152.15 or
152.16(A), statements of rescission issued under §
152.16(B), statements that public bids are to be let under §
152.20, and records of action in which an order is affirmed, modified, or
rescinded taken by the hearing authority under §
152.17.
   (B)   (1)   A person who takes an interest in unsafe premises that is the
subject of an order takes that interest, whether or not a hearing has been
held, subject to the terms of the order, and in such a manner that all of the
requirements of §§
152.19 and
152.20 and any court action taken pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22,
and successor statutes as they may be enacted, relating to the issuance of
orders, service of orders, and affirmation of orders are considered satisfied.
      (2)   If a hearing has been held, the interest is taken subject to the
terms of the order as modified at the hearing and in such a manner that all of
the requirements of §§
152.19 and
152.20 and any court action taken pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22,
and successor statutes as they may be enacted, relating to the issuance of
orders, service of orders, and modification of orders at hearing are considered
satisfied.
   (C)   A person who takes an interest in unsafe premises that is the subject
of a statement that public bids are to be let takes the interest subject to the
terms of the statement, and in such a manner that the notice of the statement
required by §
152.20 is considered given to the person.
(2005 Code, § 152.48) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.54 TRANSFERS OF PROPERTY BY PERSON NOT COMPLYING WITH ORDERS.
   (A)   A person who has been issued and has received notice of an order
relative to unsafe premises and has not complied with that order:
      (1)   Must supply full information regarding the order to a person who
takes or agrees to take a substantial property interest in the unsafe premises
before transferring or agreeing to transfer that interest; and
      (2)   Must, within five days after transferring or agreeing to transfer a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises, supply the enforcement
authority with written copies of:
         (a)   The full name, address, and telephone number of the person
taking a substantial property interest in the unsafe premises; and
         (b)   The legal instrument under which the transfer or agreement to
transfer the substantial property interest is accomplished.
   (B)   If a judgment is obtained against the town, any of its agents or other
governmental entity, for the failure of that entity to provide notice to
persons holding an interest in unsafe premises in an action taken by the entity
under this chapter, a person who failed to comply with this section is liable
to the entity for the amount of the judgment if it can be shown that the
entity’s failure to give notice was a result of that person’s failure.
(2005 Code, § 152.49) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.55 APPEALS.
   (A)   An action taken under §
152.17(D) is subject to review by the circuit or superior court of the county
in which the unsafe premises is located, on request of: any person who has a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises; or any person to whom
that order was issued.
   (B)   A person requesting judicial review under this section must file a
verified complaint including the findings of fact and the action taken by the
hearing authority. The complaint must be filed within ten days after the date
when the action was taken.
(2005 Code, § 152.50) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to affirming an order pursuant to §
152.17(D), in those cases in which the hearing authority finds that there has
been a willful failure to comply with the order, the hearing authority may
impose a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $1,000. The effective date of
the civil penalty may be postponed for a reasonable period, after which the
hearing authority may order the civil penalty reduced or stricken if the
hearing authority is satisfied that all work necessary to fully comply with the
order has been done.
   (C)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-28, and successor statutes as they may
be enacted, a person who does the following commits a Class C infraction:
         (a)   Remains in, uses, or enters a building in violation of an order
made under this chapter;
         (b)   Knowingly interferes with or delays the carrying out of an order
made under this chapter;
         (c)   Knowingly obstructs, damages, or interferes with persons engaged
or property used in performing any work or duty under this chapter; or
         (d)   Fails to comply with I.C. 36-7-9-27 and successor statutes as
they may be enacted (referred to as §
152.54).
      (2)   Each day that the violation continues constitutes a separate
offense.
(2005 Code, § 152.99) (Ord. G-04-24, passed 8-19-2004)
CHAPTER 153: STORM WATER PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Regulation; administration
   
153.02   Jurisdiction
   
153.03   Objectives
   
153.04   Authority and right-of-entry
   
153.05   Illicit discharges
   
153.06   Illegal discharges
   
153.07   Accidental discharges
   
153.08   Enforcement
   
153.09   Definitions
   
153.10   Establishment of a Department of Storm Water Management and Storm
Water Board of Directors
   
153.11   Storm water review fee
   
153.12   Monthly storm water fee
Construction Site Runoff Control
   
153.25   Purpose
   
153.26   Jurisdiction, alternatives, and exemptions
   
153.27   Objectives
   
153.28   Authority and right-of-entry
   
153.29   Perimeter/outfall protection permit
   
153.30   Storm water quality management permit
   
153.31   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures for grading and
storm water pollution prevention
   
153.32   Requirements for individual lots
   
153.33   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures for individual
lots
   
153.34   Storm water quality management permit termination
   
153.35   As-built requirements
   
153.36   Inspections and maintenance
   
153.37   Oversight inspections
   
153.38   Bond release inspections
   
153.39   Maintenance
   
153.40   Qualified professional registration and certification
   
153.41   Fees
   
153.42   Enforcement
Post Construction Site Runoff Control
   
153.55   Purpose
   
153.56   Applicability
   
153.57   Post-construction storm water pollution prevention plan requirements
   
153.58   Buffers
   
153.59   Approved storm water and best management practices (BMPs)
   
153.60   BMP design requirements and criteria
   
153.61   BMP ownership and easements
   
153.62   Coordination with regional BMPs
   
153.63   Coordination with master plan and watershed studies
   
153.64   Storm water quality management plan permit closure
   
153.65   As-built requirements
   
153.66   Long-term operation and maintenance
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 REGULATION; ADMINISTRATION.
   The regulation of storm water matters shall be administered by the town’s
Public Works Department, acting as the town’s Department of Storm Water
Management at the direction of its Board of Directors.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.02 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall govern all properties and controlled activities within
the jurisdictional boundaries of the incorporated town.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.03 OBJECTIVES.
   Protection of short-term and long-term public health, safety, and general
welfare will be achieved by:
   (A)   Providing for regulation and management of the town’s storm water
system, including public and private facilities within the town’s service area;
   (B)   Protecting and preserving water quality and fish and wildlife habitat
within the town and in downstream receiving waters;
   (C)   Protecting those downstream from storm water quality impairment(s);
   (D)   Compliance with state and federal storm water regulations developed
pursuant to the Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987, Pub. L. No. 100-4, 101
Stat. 7 (1987) and subsequent amendments through 2004. The objectives of these
regulations include:
      (1)   Controlling the quality of water discharged by controlling the
contribution of pollutants to the storm water system by storm water discharges
associated with residential, commercial, and industrial activity;
      (2)   Prohibiting illicit discharges to storm water; and
      (3)   Controlling the discharge of spills and dumping or any disposal of
materials other than storm water into the storm water system.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.04 AUTHORITY AND RIGHT-OF-ENTRY.
   (A)   The town shall have right-of-entry on, or upon, the property of any
person subject to this chapter and any permit/document issued hereunder. The
town shall be provided ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, monitoring, sampling, inventory, records examination,
and copying, and the performance of any other duties necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Where a property, site, or facility has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry, the responsible
party shall make necessary arrangements with its security personnel so that,
upon presentation of suitable identification, the town will be permitted to
enter without delay.
   (C)   Access by the town shall include the right to erect upon the property
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of storm
water operations or discharges.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
areas to be inspected and/or monitored shall be removed promptly upon request
of, and at no cost to, the town.
   (E)   The town may inspect the facilities of any person in order to ensure
compliance with this chapter. Except in an emergency relating directly to the
health, safety, and welfare of the public, an inspection shall be made only
after reasonable notice to and consent by the responsible party. However, if
such consent is refused, denied, or not promptly tendered, the town may seek
appropriate judicial orders permitting such entry.
   (F)   The town has the right to determine and impose inspection schedules
necessary to enforce the provisions of this section. Inspections may include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   An initial inspection prior to storm water management plan
approval;
      (2)   An inspection prior to burial of any underground drainage
structure;
      (3)   Erosion control inspections as necessary to ensure effective
control of sediment prior to discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer
system;
      (4)   A finish inspection when all work, including installation of storm
management facilities, have been completed; and/or
      (5)   An inspection to determine the effectiveness or operational
viability of a permanent or long-term storm water quality management practice.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.05 ILLICIT DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Program, illicit discharges to the
MS4 are defined as illegal.
      (2)   Except as hereinafter provided, all non-storm water discharges into
the MS4 are prohibited and declared to be unlawful.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to connect any pipe, open channel, or
any other conveyance system that discharges into the MS4 anything except storm
water, unpolluted water, or such other substance which is approved by the town
based on exemptions listed in division (E) below.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge waters from residential
construction activities that are not in compliance with the standard of
practice for residential construction storm water management as approved by the
town.
   (D)   In addition to illicit discharges, the discharge of spills and the
dumping and/or disposal of materials other than storm water, including, but not
limited to, industrial and commercial wastes, commercial car wash wastes,
sewage, garbage, yard waste, trash, petroleum products, including used motor
vehicle fluids, as well as leaf litter, grass clippings, and animal wastes into
the MS4, whether directly or indirectly, is prohibited, unless authorized under
a NPDES permit.
   (E)   Allowable discharges: unless the town has identified a discharge as an
unacceptable source of pollutants to the waters of the state, the following
non-storm water discharges into the MS4 are lawful:
      (1)   Discharges from emergency fire fighting activities;
      (2)   Diverted stream flows;
      (3)   Rising groundwaters;
      (4)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration to separate storm sewer
systems (as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 35.2005(20);
      (5)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
      (6)   Discharges from potable water sources as required for system
maintenance;
      (7)   Drinking water line flushing;
      (8)   Air conditioning condensate;
      (9)   Uncontaminated landscape irrigation;
      (10)   Uncontaminated irrigation water;
      (11)   Lawn watering;
      (12)   Uncontaminated springs;
      (13)   Uncontaminated water from crawl space pumps;
      (14)   Uncontaminated water from footing drains and pumps;
      (15)   Individual residential car washing;
      (16)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (17)   De-chlorinated swimming pool discharges;
      (18)   Controlled flushing storm water conveyances (contained and treated
by appropriate BMPs);
      (19)   Discharges made from residential construction sites fully and
completely utilizing guidance provided by “Standard of Practice for Residential
Construction Storm Water Management”;
      (20)   Discharges within the constraints of a national pollutant
discharges elimination system (NPDES) permit from the state’s Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM); and
      (21)   Discharges approved at the discretion of the town.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 ILLEGAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to improperly dispose of any
contaminant into the MS4. Contaminants include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Trash or debris;
      (2)   Construction materials or uncontrolled sediment;
      (3)   Petroleum products including, but not limited to, oil, gasoline,
grease, fuel oil, or hydraulic fluids;
      (4)   Antifreeze and other automotive products;
      (5)   Metals in either particulate or dissolved form;
      (6)   Flammable or explosive materials;
      (7)   Radioactive materials;
      (8)   Batteries including, but not limited to, lead acid automobile
batteries, alkaline batteries, lithium batteries, or mercury batteries;
      (9)   Acids, alkalis, or bases;
      (10)   Paints, stains, resins, lacquers, or varnishes;
      (11)   Degreasers and/or solvents;
      (12)   Drain cleaners;
      (13)   Pesticides, herbicides, or fertilizers;
      (14)   Steam cleaning wastes;
      (15)   Soaps, detergents, or ammonia;
      (16)   Swimming pool backwash including chlorinated swimming pool
discharge;
      (17)   Chlorine, bromine, and other disinfectants;
      (18)   Heated water;
      (19)   Animal waste, either from domestic animals or from feeder lot
operations;
      (20)   Leakage from sanitary sewers and connections that have remained
uncorrected for more than seven days;
      (21)   Recreational vehicle waste;
      (22)   Animal carcasses;
      (23)   Food wastes;
      (24)   Medical wastes;
      (25)   Bark and other fibrous materials;
      (26)   Collected lawn clippings, leaves, or branches;
      (27)   Silt, sediment, or gravel;
      (28)   Dyes, except with permission from the town;
      (29)   Chemicals not normally found in uncontaminated water;
      (30)   Water from fresh concrete or that used for cleaning, finishing,
and/or to expose aggregates;
      (31)   Junk motor vehicles;
      (32)   Leakage from solid waste disposal containers;
      (33)   Sewage or sewage sludge;
      (34)   Any polluted household wastewater, such as, but not limited to,
laundry wash water and dishwater, except that discharged to a sanitary sewer or
septic system;
      (35)   Leakage from water lines that has remained uncorrected for seven
days or more;
      (36)   Commercial, industrial, or public vehicle wash discharge;
      (37)   Garbage or sanitary waste;
      (38)   Dead animals or animal fecal waste;
      (39)   Dredged or spoil material;
      (40)   Wrecked or discarded vehicles or equipment;
      (41)   Wash waters to the storm drain system from the cleaning of gas
stations, auto repair garages, or other types of auto repair facilities;
      (42)   Wastewater to the storm drain system from mobile auto washing,
steam cleaning, mobile carpet cleaning, and other such mobile commercial and
industrial operations;
      (43)   Waters from areas devoted to the repair of machinery and
equipment, including motor vehicles, which are visibly leaking oil, fluids, or
coolants;
      (44)   Waters from storage areas for materials containing grease, oil, or
hazardous materials or uncovered receptacles containing hazardous materials,
grease, or oil;
      (45)   Toxic materials from paved or unpaved areas;
      (46)   Discharge into the storm drain system from the washing or rinsing
of restaurant mats, roof vents, grease traps, equipment, or garbage bins or
cans;
      (47)   Sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes if discharged into a
well or a location that is likely that the discharged substance will move into
a well, or the underground placement of fluids and other substances which do,
or may, affect the waters of the state; and
      (48)   Any hazardous material or waste not listed above.
   (B)   It is not the intent of the town, by this chapter, to propose
penalties for de minimus discharges that have no significant adverse impact on
the safety, health, the welfare of the environment, or the functionality of the
storm water drainage/collection system and, to this end, such de minimus
discharges are expressly exempted from the application of this chapter.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   In the event of any discharge of a hazardous substance in amounts that
could cause a threat to public drinking supplies, a spill beyond that of de
minimus levels, or any other discharge that could constitute a threat to human
health or the environment, the person causing the discharge or the owner or
operator of the facility responsible for same or his or her designee
(collectively, responsible party) shall give notice to the town and IDEM as
soon as practicable, but in no event later than of two hours after discovery of
the accidental discharge or when the responsible party becomes aware of the
circumstances of the incident.
   (B)   If an emergency response by governmental agencies is needed, the
responsible party shall call 911 immediately to report the discharge. Reports
required by the state’s Spill Rule (327 I.A.C. 2-6.1-7), shall be made within
two hours of discovery, and a written report shall be provided to the town
within five days of the time the incident, unless this requirement is waived by
the town for good cause shown on a case-by-case basis. The report shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   A description of the discharge;
      (2)   The exact dates and times of discharge; and
      (3)   Steps being taken to eliminate and prevent recurrence of the
discharge.
   (C)   The responsible party shall take all reasonable steps to minimize any
adverse impact to the MS4 or the waters of state, including accelerated or
additional monitoring necessary to determine the nature and impact of the
discharge.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person responsible for any connection to the MS4 which
results in a prohibited discharge shall immediately cause such illegal
connection to be discontinued and redirected, if necessary, to an approved
sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Such person shall provide the town with written confirmation, in a
form satisfactory to the town, that the connection has been discontinued, and,
if necessary, redirected to the sanitary sewer.
   (B)   (1)   Any person responsible for illicit discharges or noncompliance
with BMPs at industrial and/or construction sites, and who fails to correct any
prohibited condition or discontinue any prohibited activity at the order of the
town shall be liable to the town for expenses incurred in abating pollution.
      (2)   Such expenses may include those incurred in testing, measuring,
sampling, collecting, removing, treating, and disposing of the polluting
materials and preventing further noncompliance and/or illicit discharges.
   (C)   The town may institute appropriate actions or proceedings at law or in
equity for the enforcement of this chapter, and the town shall be entitled to
recover its costs expended and reasonable attorney fees in any such proceeding.
Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the right to issue restraining
orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, and other appropriate forms of
remedy or relief. Each day of noncompliance is considered a separate offense;
and nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking such other
lawful action as necessary to prevent or remedy any violation, including
application for injunctive relief. Any of the following enforcement remedies
and penalties, to be applied independently or in a sequence as deemed
necessary, shall be available to the town in response to violations of this
chapter. If the person, property, or facility has, or is required to have, a
storm water discharge permit from the IDEM, the town shall notify the
appropriate state authorities of the violation.
   (D)   Whenever the town finds that any person owning or occupying premises
has violated or is violating this chapter or an order issued hereunder, the
enforcement official may serve, by personal service, registered, or certified
mail, upon said person a written notice of violation (NOV). Within 30 days of
the receipt of this notice, or shorter period as may be prescribed in the NOV,
an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, which shall include specific required actions, shall be
submitted to the town. Submission of this plan shall not, however, affect
liability for violations of this chapter.
   (E)   The town may revoke and require surrender of a permit or certificate
by notifying the permit holder, in writing, of the reason for the revocation.
Permits or certificates may be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application plans or specifications; refusal or failure to comply with
the requirements of state or local law; or, for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit or certificate. Any permit or
certificate mistakenly issued in violation of any applicable state or local law
may also be revoked.
   (F)   The town may issue a stop-work order and require that all activities
cease, except those actions that are necessary to eliminate the illicit
discharge. Unacceptable or untimely actions to eliminate the illicit discharge
may be used as grounds to revoke permits for the construction site as described
in division (E) above.
   (G)   If any person shall violate the provisions of this chapter, the town
may order the owner, responsible party, or any person in possession of the
subject property that all unlawful conditions existing thereupon be abated
within a scheduled period defined from the date of such notice.
   (H)   The enforcement official shall have the authority to establish
elements of a storm water pollution prevention plan and require any business to
adopt and implement such a plan as may be reasonably necessary to fulfill the
purposes of this chapter. The enforcement official may establish the
requirements of BMPs for any premises.
   (I)   If it is determined by the town that an unlawful condition is such
that there is imminent danger or peril to the public health, safety, or
welfare, the town may, with or without notice, proceed to abate the same, with
the costs of such abatement to be charged against the property, its owner, or
the responsible party, jointly and severally.
   (J)   Any violator may be required to clean and/or restore land to its
condition prior to the violation.
   (K)   (1)   If corrective action, including required maintenance, is not
completed in the time specified or within a reasonable time, the town may take
the corrective action, and the cost of abatement or corrective action may be
assessed against the responsible party, owner of the premises, and/or the
developer.
      (2)   If these costs are not paid within 90 days or invoice, the
enforcement official may initiate all appropriate legal actions to enforce the
claim.
   (L)   Any violation of this chapter or of any condition, order, requirement,
or remedy adopted pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected, abated,
mandated, or enjoined by other appropriate proceeding pursuant to state law.
   (M)   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, any
violation of this chapter may be enforced by civil action brought by the town.
Monies recovered under this section shall be paid to the town to be used
exclusively for costs associated with implementing or enforcing the provisions
of this chapter. In any such action, the town may seek, as appropriate, any or
all of the following remedies:
      (1)   A temporary and/or permanent injunction;
      (2)   Assessment of the violator for the costs of any investigation,
inspection, or monitoring survey which lead to the establishment of the
violation, and for the reasonable costs of preparing and bringing legal action
under this section;
      (3)   Costs incurred in removing, correcting, or terminating the adverse
effects resulting from the violation; and/or
      (4)   Compensatory damages for loss or destruction to water quality,
wildlife, fish, and aquatic life.
   (N)   (1)   The town may order the abatement of any discharge from any
source to the storm water conveyance system when, in the opinion of the town,
the discharge causes or threatens to cause a condition that presents an
imminent danger to the public health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the
town, the environment, or is a violation of a NPDES permit.
      (2)   If such emergency situations occur and the property owner or other
responsible party is unavailable, or time constraints are such that service of
a notice and order to abate cannot be effected without presenting an immediate
danger to the public health, safety, or welfare, the town may undertake the
abatement of said threat or danger.
      (3)   The costs of any such action by the town may be recovered as in
division (K) above.
   (O)   Any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter is deemed a threat to the public health, safety,
welfare, and environment, and is declared a nuisance which may be abated by
injunctive or other equitable relief.
   (P)   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and the town may
seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future; words used in the singular
number shall include the plural and the plural the singular; words used in the
masculine gender shall include the feminine.
   ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE. A discharge or release prohibited by this chapter
which occurs by chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
   ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS. The owners of property contiguous to the subject
property, excluding those who are also the owners of the subject property,
ignoring all intervening streams, street, and railroad rights-of-way.
   APPLICANT. A person or persons submitting an application for development.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbance activities subject to state NPDES
general construction permits related to “Rule 13” or “Rule 5” or local permits.
Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, and demolition.
   CONTIGUOUS. When at least one boundary line of a parcel touches the boundary
line of another parcel.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   GEORGETOWN STORM WATER BOARD. The Board of Directors of the Department of
Storm Water Management.
   IDEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   IDNR. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a municipal separate storm sewer system
(MS4) that is not composed entirely of storm water except discharges pursuant
to a national pollutant discharge elimination system permit (other than the
town’s NPDES storm water permit) or otherwise defined by this chapter.
   INDOT. The Indiana Department of Transportation.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   ISDH. The Indiana State Department of Health.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). Any facility designed or used
for collecting and/or conveying storm water, including, but not limited to, any
roads with drainage systems, highways, streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch
basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural storm water
controls, ditches, swales, natural and human-made or altered drainage channels,
reservoirs, and other drainage structures, and which is: owned or maintained by
the town; not a combined sewer; and not part of a publicly-owned treatment
works.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM) under delegated authority by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (USEPA), whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group, or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drainage system that
is not composed entirely of storm water.
   NRCS. The Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   PAVED. A durable surface for parking, driving, riding, or similar
activities, that utilizes asphalt, concrete, brick, paving blocks, or similar
material. Crushed gravel, stone, rock, dirt, sand, or grass is not permitted as
a PAVED surface.
   POLLUTANT. Anything of a chemical component or nature which causes or
contributes to pollution.
   POLLUTION. The presence of matter or energy whose nature, location, or
quantity produces undesired environmental effects.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person who has a legal or equitable interest in the
property or his or her authorized representative.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The person causing or permitting a prohibited discharge
in violation of this chapter, or the person in control of, or having the right
to control, the property or premises from which a prohibited discharge has
occurred.
   STANDARD OF PRACTICE FOR RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION STORM WATER MANAGEMENT. A
document that defines the management practices for erosion prevention, sediment
control, and other construction site waste management by which homebuilders may
use as guidance and minimum expectations to be achieved during inspections by
the town. In the event that this document is not published, then the Indiana
Storm Water Quality Manual or the Indiana Handbook for Erosion and STEEP.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF or STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage
consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and
resulting from such precipitation.
   STRUCTURAL STORM WATER CONTROL or BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). A
structural storm water management facility or device that controls storm water
runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not
limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of
flow.
   UNDILUTED DISCHARGES. A discharge that has not been mixed with that of
another source such as another septic tank.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes,
reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of
surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a
part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and
retained completely upon the property of a single person.
   WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at
a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions. (33 C.F.R. § 328.3(b))
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.10 ESTABLISHMENT OF A DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT AND STORM
WATER BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   The Town Department of Storm Water Management and Town Storm Water
Board are hereby established.
   (B)   The provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5 et seq. are hereby adopted and
incorporated hereto by reference.
   (C)   The Town Department of Public Works shall operate as the Department of
Storm Water Management for all storm water purposes, and shall act at all times
pursuant to the direction of the Town Storm Water Board.
   (D)   The President of the Town Council, as the town executive, shall
appoint three persons to serve as directors of the Town Storm Water Board, with
no more than two of such persons being of the same political party.
   (E)   The three appointed Directors shall be designated to serve initial
terms beginning on January 31, 2012 and ending November 30, 2012, 2013, and
2014 as so designated.
   (F)   After the initial terms of the Directors are completed, each Director
shall thereafter serve a term lasting for a period of six years, so that terms
are staggered as provided under I.C. 8-1.5-5-4(d).
   (G)   The Town Storm Water Board of Directors shall have the powers
enumerated in I.C. 8-1.5-5-4(a) and I.C. 8-1.5-5-6.
   (H)   A special taxing district is hereby established being comprised of the
lands within the corporate boundaries of the town (the “District”).
   (I)   The Town Storm Water Board of Directors shall hold hearing to assess
and collect user fees with regular town billings in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-
5-6 and §
53.123 of this code, and the Town Council hereby approves assessment and
collection of the same according to §
53.123 of this code.
(Ord. G-12-01, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.11 STORM WATER REVIEW FEE.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes a storm water review fee for storm
water review performed by the Town Engineer as follows:
      (1)   For a storm water review of a plan involving 15 acres or less, a
plan review fee of $1,320; and
      (2)   For a storm water review plan involving more than 15 acres, a plan
review fee of $2,220.
   (B)   The storm water review fee hereby established shall be collected by
the Clerk-Treasurer and deposited in the town’s MS4 or any other appropriate
fund.
(Ord. G-13-11, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 153.12 MONTHLY STORM WATER FEE.
   (A)   A monthly storm water fee for each property within the corporate
boundaries of the town shall be accessed as set out below. Said fee shall be
collected semi-annually through the property tax statements of the affected
property owners.
 
Single Family Residential $3.25 per month
All others                $3.25 per ERU per month
Note: One ERU = 3,700 square feet. ERU = Equivalent Residential Unit.
 
   (B)   As an example:
      7,400 square foot commercial parcel
      7,400 / 3,700 = 2 ERU
      Monthly fee = 2 x $3.25 = $6.50/month
(Ord. G-21-04, passed 5-17-2021)
CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF CONTROL
§ 153.25 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter shall control storm water activities associated with
construction site runoff control of the town.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.26 JURISDICTION, ALTERNATIVES, AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall govern all properties within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the town’s Plan Commission.
   (B)   There are alternatives for permit application and processing
procedures as described by the following.
      (1)   Once all comments have been compiled, the project will be placed on
the agenda of the next scheduled meeting of the town’s Storm Water Board. The
town will furnish the applicant with a complete list of comments and objections
to the plans and supporting documentation submitted by the applicant, at least
ten days prior to the scheduled meeting. Within ten days after the meeting, the
town will either issue a permit, or request modification to the construction
plans.
      (2)   The project site owner must notify the town and the IDEM within 48
hours prior to the commencement of construction activities by the submission of
an updated NOI. Upon completion of construction activities, stabilization of
the project site, and removal of all temporary erosion protection and sediment
control measures, the applicant may submit a Notice of Termination (NOT) to the
town. The town shall inspect the project site to verify that the requirements
of the NOT have been met. Once the applicant receives a verified copy of the
NOT, the applicant must forward a copy of the verified NOT to the IDEM.
   (C)   For projects located only partially inside the town’s MS4 area, the
project site owner must comply with the requirements of this chapter and may
also be required to comply with 327 I.A.C. 15-5 (Rule 5) and/or another MS4
community’s construction site control ordinance.
   (D)   The following development activities are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
      (1)   Agricultural land management activities;
      (2)   Additions to, or modifications of, existing detached, single-family
dwellings;
      (3)   Development of individual lots which are not part of a larger
development project, if the total disturbance is less than one acre. See §
153.32 for individual lot development requirements; and
      (4)   Development that does not disturb more that 5,000 square feet of
land. This exception does not apply to tracts or parcels, whether in common or
separate ownership, which have been subdivided from a single parent tract, if
the total area within the original parent tract which is disturbed, any one
time, exceeds 5,000 square feet.
   (E)   The exemptions in this section apply only to permitting procedures
under this subchapter and do not, necessarily, apply to any discharge of
sediment or other form of water pollution that may leave a site. Such
discharges may, in fact, constitute prohibited illicit discharges.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.27 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The objective of this subchapter are the protection of the short-term
and long-term public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These objectives will be achieved by providing for regulation and
management of the town’s storm water system, including public and private
facilities in its service area.
      (1)   Protecting and preserving water quality and fish and wildlife
habitat within the town and in downstream receiving waters;
      (2)   Protecting those downstream from water quality impairment;
      (3)   Compliance with state and federal storm water regulations developed
pursuant to the Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987 and subsequent amendments.
The objectives of these regulations include:
         (a)   Managing the quality of water discharged to the municipal storm
water system by controlling the contribution of pollutants associated with
residential, commercial, and industrial activity;
         (b)   Controlling storm water pollution caused by the suspension and
transport of soils and other sediments; and
         (c)   Protecting or enhancing storm water quality to a level of
designated use and minimize the impacts from new development and/or areas of
significant redevelopment.
      (4)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood-prone area in such a manner as to maximize beneficial
use without increasing flood hazard potential or diminishing the quality of the
natural storm water resources;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges;
      (6)   Ensure the use of the public and private storm water management
system that will not result in excessive maintenance costs;
      (7)   Encourage the use of natural and aesthetically pleasing designs
that maximize preservation of natural areas;
      (8)   Control the discharge of sediment and construction site materials
into the storm water system;
      (9)   Guide the construction of storm water management facilities by
developing comprehensive master plans to address storm water quantity and
quality; and
      (10)   Encourage preservation of floodplains, floodways, and open spaces
to protect and benefit the community’s quality of life and natural resources.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.28 AUTHORITY AND RIGHT-OF-ENTRY.
   (A)   The town shall have right-of-entry on or upon the property of any
person subject to this subchapter and any permit/document issued hereunder. The
town shall be provided ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, monitoring, sampling, inventory, records examination,
and copying, and the performance of any other duties necessary to determine
compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Where a property, site or facility has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the responsible party shall make necessary arrangements with its
security personnel so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, the
town will be permitted to enter without delay.
   (C)   Access by the town shall include the right to erect upon the property
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of storm
water operations or discharges.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
areas to be inspected and/or monitored shall be removed promptly upon request
and at no cost to the town.
   (E)   The town may inspect the facilities of any person in order to ensure
compliance with this subchapter. Except in an emergency relating directly to
the health, safety, and welfare of the public, an inspection shall be made only
after reasonable notice to and the consent of the responsible party. However,
if such consent is refused, denied, or not promptly tendered, the town may seek
appropriate judicial orders permitting such entry.
   (F)   The town has the right to determine and impose inspection schedules
necessary to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Inspections may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   An initial inspection prior to storm water management plan
approval;
      (2)   An inspection prior to burial of any underground drainage
structure;
      (3)   Erosion control inspections as necessary to ensure effective
control of sediment prior to discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer
system;
      (4)   A finish inspection when all work, including installation of storm
management facilities, have been completed; and
      (5)   An inspection to determine the effectiveness or operational
viability of a permanent or long-term storm water quality management practice.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.29 PERIMETER/OUTFALL PROTECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   A perimeter/outfall protection permit must be issued prior to breaking
ground or disturbing soil in order to install sediment control practices at the
hydrologic perimeter/outfall(s) of a construction site. The permit does not
give permission to the permit holder to break ground or disturb soil on the
entire construction site, as is granted through the approval and issuance of a
storm water quality management permit.
   (B)   A perimeter/outfall protection permit is a predecessor to a storm
water quality management permit. While plans for both permits are approved
simultaneously, the provisions of a perimeter/outfall protection permit must be
implemented, inspected, and accepted by the town prior to issuance of a storm
water quality management permit.
   (C)   A perimeter/outfall protection permit may only be issued after the
review and acceptance of a perimeter control plan.
   (D)   Securing the perimeter prior to any land disturbance will decrease
sedimentation off-site once construction has begun. Perimeter protection shall
focus on downstream points and outfall areas and does not necessitate
protection of the entire site boundary. Efforts shall be focused on those areas
where water flow is most likely to exit the project site.
   (E)   Clearing, except that necessary to establish sediment control devices
shall not begin until all sediment control devices have been installed and have
been stabilized. Sediment control devices prevent eroded soil from leaving the
project site through the site perimeter or outfalls.
   (F)   Contractors shall install sediment control measures and regularly
inspect and maintain the facilities throughout construction.
   (G)   Compliance with this subchapter requires that a grading plan be
developed and submitted, a grading permit obtained, and a perimeter control
plan be implemented before any clearing or stripping.
   (H)   (1)   The perimeter control plan shall include measures to prevent
sediment from leaving the site during initial disturbance activities and prior
to temporary or permanent erosion prevention and/or sediment control practices.
      (2)   The perimeter control plan shall address downstream outfall points,
while the grading plan defines site-wide erosion prevention and sediment
control measures.
      (3)   The perimeter control plan shall address prevention of sediment
deposition on properties adjacent to the project site. Utilizing well-vegetated
buffer strips along lower perimeters, sediment barriers, filters, diversion
berms, sediment basins, or other means accepted by the town may all be employed
or combined to adequately protect adjacent properties.
      (4)   In selection of sediment control measures the type of flow, site
terrain, soil type, and other relevant factors shall be considered. Buffer
strips may only be utilized for sheet flow and must be at least 25 feet in
width. If ineffective, a single sediment control device shall be supplemented
with additional perimeter controls.
      (5)   The perimeter control plan shall address stabilizing construction
entrances/exits to reduce the amount of sediment transported onto nearby
roadways, and potentially into waterways. Where possible, traffic entering a
public right-of-way, alley, sidewalk, or parking lot, traffic shall first pass
over a stabilized stone pad. This pad shall be at least six inches thick, 100
feet long, and contain two- to three-inch crushed coarse graded stone. If
operating under seasonally wet conditions and/or soft soils, filter fabric
shall underlie the stabilized stone pad.
      (6)   The perimeter control plan shall address protection of outlets such
as pipes, drains, culverts, conduits, or channels by significantly minimizing
erosion and sedimentation through reduction of the velocity of flows from the
project site. The placement of rock, grouted rip-rap, or concrete rubble at the
outlet of a pipe to prevent scour of the soil around the culvert mouth caused
by the high pipe flow velocities or similar measures are encouraged.
   (I)   Acceptance: site inspection and approval by the town must be received
before any land disturbance or grading may proceed.
      (1)   The town shall make inspections of the site prior to the acceptance
of the perimeter protection plan. Inspection will be performed within seven
days after the submission of the plan and installation of the perimeter
protection devices but before any disturbance or clearing has been performed.
The inspector shall either approve the portion of work completed or shall
advise the permittee as to the noncompliance with the perimeter protection plan
as approved.
      (2)   Inspection of perimeter protection BMPs shall consist of a visual
check list for each type of BMP, to ensure that each was designed and installed
according to site specific conditions.
      (3)   Acceptance of the perimeter control plan and inspection of the
appropriate BMPs shall compensate for and address any seasonal variations which
may hinder the effectiveness of the BMPs. Seasonal variations may include
changes in flow, hydrology, temperature, and vegetation. BMPs shall be designed
according to these variations and appropriately to maintain a level of service.
   (J)   The state’s Department of Natural Resource’s guidance documents,
including the Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas, most current
version or the Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual, should be reviewed and
considered when preparing the perimeter control plan.
   (K)   The town reserves the right to develop or adopt other guidance
documents to serve as design and implementation standards.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.30 STORM WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   As applicable, a list of all MS4 areas designated under 327 I.A.C. 15-
13 in which the project site lies together with a signed certification that:
      (1)   The NOI letter must be submitted to the town’s Storm Water
Department at the following location/address: 1070 Copperfield Drive, P.O. Box
127, Georgetown, IN 47122.
      (2)   Construction plan sheets and an accompanying narrative report shall
be submitted describing existing and proposed site conditions, including the
following:
         (a)   Project narrative and supporting documents, including the
following information:
            1.   An index indicating the location in the construction plans of
all information required by this division (A)(2);
            2.   Description of the nature and purpose of the project;
            3.   Legal description of the project site (the description should
be to the nearest quarter section, township, and range, and include the civil
township);
            4.   Soil properties, characteristics, limitations, and hazards
associated with the project site and the measures that will be integrated into
the project to overcome or minimize adverse soil conditions;
            5.   General construction sequence of how the project site will be
built, including phases of construction;
            6.   Fourteen-digit watershed hydrologic unit code (HUC);
            7.   A reduced plat or project site map showing the lot numbers,
lot boundaries, and road layout and names. The reduced map must be legible and
submitted on a sheet or sheets no larger than 11 inches by 17 inches for all
phases or sections of the project site;
            8.   A general site plan exhibit with the proposed construction
area superimposed on ortho-aerial map at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet.
The exhibit should provide two-foot contour information and include all roads
and buildings within a minimum 500-foot radius beyond the project boundaries;
            9.   Identification of any other state or federal water quality
permits that are required for construction activities associated with the
owner’s project site; and
            10.   Vicinity map depicting the project site location in
relationship to recognizable local landmarks, towns, and major roads, such as a
USGS topographic quadrangle map or county or municipal road map.
         (b)   An existing project site layout that must include the following
information:
            1.   Location, name, and normal water level of all wetlands, lakes,
ponds, and water courses on, or adjacent to, the project site;
            2.   Location of all existing structures on the project site;
            3.   One-hundred year floodplains, floodway fringes, and floodways.
Please note if none exists;
            4.   Soil map of the predominant soil types, as determined by the
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Natural Resources Conservation
Service (NRCS) Soil Survey, or as determined by a soil scientist. A soil legend
must be included with the soil map;
            5.   Identification and delineation of vegetative cover, such as
grass, weeds, brush, and trees on the project site;
            6.   Location of storm, sanitary, combined sewer, and septic tank
systems and outfalls;
            7.   Location of regulated drains, farm drains, inlets, and
outfalls, if any exist of record;
            8.   Land use of all adjacent properties; and
            9.   Existing topography at a contour interval appropriate to
indicate drainage patterns.
         (c)   Final project site layout, including the following information:
            1.   Location of all proposed site improvements, including roads,
utilities, lot delineation and identification, proposed structures, and common
areas;
            2.   One-hundred year floodplains, floodway fringes, and floodways.
Please note if none exists; and
            3.   Proposed final topography at a contour interval appropriate to
indicate drainage patterns.
   (B)   A grading plan, including the following information.
      (1)   The grading plan shall include provisions for operation and
maintenance of measures identified in the perimeter control plan.
      (2)   The grading plan shall make clear the erosion prevention and
sediment controls which are most appropriate to the specific site conditions.
      (3)   The grading plan shall illustrate the location and extent of
erosion prevention and sediment controls.
      (4)   The grading plan shall include sequencing and schedule information,
structural, and non-structural best management practices (BMPs), temporary and
permanent stabilization measures.
      (5)   The grading plan shall include anticipated inspection and
maintenance requirements for permanent and temporary measures. This shall
include the expected frequency of routine inspections and maintenance
activities (such as removal of sediment and construction debris).
      (6)   The grading plan shall include provisions for construction phasing.
This shall be designed so that stripping and clearing of the site exposes only
the area necessary for immediate activities and minimizes the amount of soil
exposed at any one time. This includes rough grading, construction of
utilities, infrastructure and buildings, and final grading and landscaping.
Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing of the area will
begin and the estimated duration of exposure. The sequence of phased clearing
and the installation of temporary and permanent erosion control measures should
be identified.
      (7)   The grading plan shall include provisions for a no-disturbance
waterway buffer, including:
         (a)   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be defined as 25 feet
from the top of waterway bank as defined by geomorphic shape and not by the
current water surface elevation; and
         (b)   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be applied to all
waterways and open-air drainage systems that drain more 100 acres of tributary
area or is presented on a United State Geological Survey map as a solid and
dashed blue line stream.
   (C)   The grading plan shall include provisions for stabilizing denuded
areas and soil stockpiles.
      (1)   Soil stabilization shall be designed to prevent the erosive forces
of rain and water flow from washing soil from the site. Soil stabilization
measures may be temporary and/or permanent and should be appropriate to the
seasonal hydrology, site conditions, and estimated duration the measure will be
in place.
      (2)   Denuded areas must be stabilized with permanent or temporary soil
stabilization measures within 15 days of either achieving final grade, or
within 15 days to any area that will remain dormant for over 60 days.
      (3)   Soil stockpiles, if left undisturbed for 15 or more days, shall be
stabilized. Sediment trapping measures such as sediment traps and detention
ponds shall be utilized to prevent soil loss from the project site through the
duration of soil stockpiling practices.
      (4)   The grading plan shall include provisions for stabilizing cut and
fill slopes.
      (5)   Minimization of erosion must be considered when designing and
constructing cut and fill slopes. Length, steepness, soil type, upslope
tributary area, groundwater, and other relevant factors must all be taken into
account.
      (6)   Stabilization practices such as rock rip-rap, geosynthetic
material, or other methods approved shall be used on cut and fill slopes at
three to one or greater.
      (7)   Cut and fill slopes must be stabilized with permanent or temporary
soil stabilization measures within 15 days of either achieving final grade, or
within 15 days to any area that will remain dormant for over 60 days.
      (8)   The grading plan shall include provisions for erosion prevention
measures. Erosion prevention measures shall be designed to minimize the
suspension of sediment from the soil. The controls may function independently
or in combination with sediment control measures, to prevent sediment laden
runoff from leaving the construction site. Acceptable erosion prevention
practices include:
         (a)   Phased construction/clearing;
         (b)   Dust control;
         (c)   Construction road stabilization;
         (d)   Temporary seeding;
         (e)   Top soiling;
         (f)   Mulching;
         (g)   Nets and mats;
         (h)   Geotextiles;
         (I)   Terracing;
         (j)   Soil bioengineering - slope and stream stabilization;
         (k)   Rip-rap;
         (l)   Channel linings;
         (m)   Temporary diversions, drains, and swales;
         (n)   Stream crossings;
         (o)   Water bar; and
         (p)   Other measures reviewed and accepted by the town are also
appropriate erosion prevention practices.
   (D)   The grading plan shall include provisions for sediment control
measures. Sediment control measures shall be designed to remove sediment, by
settling, flocculating, filtering or other means, from storm runoff prior to
discharge from the construction site. The controls may function independently
or in combination with erosion prevention measures, to prevent sediment laden
runoff from leaving the construction site. Acceptable sediment control
practices include:
      (1)   Stabilized construction entrance;
      (2)   Construction entrance tire washing;
      (3)   Buffer zones;
      (4)   Check dams;
      (5)   Silt fence;
      (6)   Double layered straw bale barrier;
      (7)   Sand bag barrier;
      (8)   Brush, rock filter, and continuous berms;
      (9)   Sediment traps;
      (10)   Temporary sediment/detention basin;
      (11)   Temporary inlet protection;
      (12)   Temporary outlet protection;
      (13)   Infiltration systems;
      (14)   Wet detention ponds;
      (15)   Dry detention ponds;
      (16)   Constructed wetlands;
      (17)   Biofilter swales;
      (18)   Water quality inlets and hydrodynamic separators; and
      (19)   Other measures reviewed and accepted by the town are also
appropriate sediment control practices.
   (E)   A drainage plan, including the following information:
      (1)   An estimate of the peak discharge, based on the ten-year storm
event, of the project site for both pre-construction and post-construction
conditions;
      (2)   Calculation showing that the peak runoff rate post-development for
the ten-year and 100-year return period storms of critical duration will not
exceed the two-year and ten-year return period pre-development peak runoff
rates, respectively;
      (3)   Location, size, and dimensions of all storm water drainage systems,
such as culverts, storm sewers, and conveyance channels;
      (4)   Locations where storm water may be directly discharged into
groundwater, such as abandoned wells or sinkholes. Please note if none exists;
      (5)   Locations of specific points where storm water discharge will leave
the project site;
      (6)   Name of all receiving waters. If the discharge is to a separate
municipal storm sewer, identify the name of the municipal operator and the
ultimate receiving water;
      (7)   Location, size, and dimensions of features, such as permanent
retention or detention facilities, including existing or manmade wetlands, used
for the purpose of storm water management. Include existing retention or
detention facilities that will be maintained, enlarged, or otherwise altered
and new ponds or basins to be built and the basis of their design; and
      (8)   The estimated depth and amount of storage required by the design of
the new pond(s) or basin(s).
   (F)   A storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) for construction
activities must be designed to, at a minimum, meet the requirements of this
subchapter, and must include the following:
      (1)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all temporary and permanent storm water quality measures;
      (2)   Temporary stabilization plans and sequence of implementation;
      (3)   Permanent stabilization plans and sequence of implementation;
      (4)   Temporary and permanent stabilization plans shall include the
following:
         (a)   Specifications and application rates for soil amendments and
seed mixtures;
         (b)   The type and application rate for anchored mulch;
         (c)   Construction sequence describing the relationship between
implementation of storm water quality measures and stages of construction
activities; and
         (d)   1.   Anticipated inspection and maintenance requirements for
permanent and temporary measures.
            2.   This shall include the expected frequency of routine
inspections and maintenance activities (such as removal of waste concrete).
      (5)   A description of potential pollutant sources associated with the
construction activities that may reasonably be expected to add a significant
amount of pollutants to storm water discharges, including:
         (a)   Waste concrete management;
         (b)   Material delivery, handling, and storage;
         (c)   Sanitary/septic waste management;
         (d)   Solid waste/trash and debris management;
         (e)   Spill prevention control and countermeasures;
         (f)   Vehicle and equipment cleaning, fueling, and maintenance;
         (g)   Sensitive and vegetated area preservation; and
         (h)   Material delivery, handling, and storage associated with
construction activities shall meet the spill prevention and spill response
requirements of 327 I.A.C. 2-6.1.
   (G)   The SWPPP must include provisions for addressing the following issues
as applicable to the site-specific construction activities:
      (1)   De-watering operations;
      (2)   Contaminated soil management;
      (3)   Hazardous materials and waste management;
      (4)   Pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizer use;
      (5)   Collection system maintenance;
      (6)   Drainage system flushing;
      (7)   Over-water activities; and
      (8)   A typical erosion and sediment control plan for individual lots.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.31 SELF-MONITORING PROGRAM INCLUDING PLAN AND PROCEDURES FOR GRADING AND
STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   The state’s Department of Natural Resources’ guidance documents,
including the Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas, most current
version or the Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual, should be reviewed and
considered when preparing the grading plan and storm water pollution prevention
plan.
   (B)   The town reserves the right to develop or adopt other guidance
documents to serve as design and implementation standards.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.32 REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL LOTS.
   (A)   Although no permit is required for individual lots disturbing less
than one acre, within a larger permitted project, a formal storm water review
will be required prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   (B)   All storm water management measures necessary to comply with this
subchapter must be implemented in accordance with the permitted plan for the
larger project.
      (1)   The information following in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) below must
be submitted for review and approval, prior to the issuance of a building
permit for an individual lot.
      (2)   A site location plan showing the individual lot and all adjacent
lots dimensions, elevations, drainage patterns, and swales.
      (3)   An erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes
the following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access;
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance;
         (c)   Sediment discharge and tracking from each lot must be minimized
throughout the land disturbing activities on the lot until permanent
stabilization has been achieved;
         (d)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules; and/or
         (e)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.33 SELF-MONITORING PROGRAM INCLUDING PLAN AND PROCEDURES FOR INDIVIDUAL
LOTS.
   (A)   Certification of compliance stating that the individual lot plan is
consistent with the storm water management permit approved by the town for the
larger project.
   (B)   The individual lot operator is responsible for the installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.34 STORM WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PERMIT TERMINATION.
   The project site owner shall plan an orderly and timely termination of the
construction activities, including the implementation of storm water quality
measures that are to remain on the project site.
   (A)   The project site owner shall submit a notice of termination (NOT)
letter to the town and the IDEM and in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The project site owner shall submit an NOT letter when the
following conditions have been met:
         (a)   All land disturbing activities, including construction on all
building lots, have been completed and the entire site has been stabilized; and
         (b)   All temporary erosion and sediment control measures have been
removed.
      (2)   The NOT letter must contain a verified statement that each of the
conditions in this division (A) has been met.
      (3)   The project site owner may submit an NOT letter to obtain early
release from compliance with this subchapter, if the following conditions are
met:
         (a)   The remaining, undeveloped acreage does not exceed five acres,
with contiguous areas not to exceed one acre;
         (b)   A map of the project site, clearly identifying all remaining
undeveloped lots, is attached to the NOT letter. The map must be accompanied by
a list of names and addresses of individual lot owners or individual lot
operators of all undeveloped lots;
         (c)   All public and common improvements, including infrastructure,
have been completed and permanently stabilized and have been transferred to the
appropriate local entity;
         (d)   The remaining acreage does not pose a significant threat to the
integrity of the infrastructure, adjacent properties, or water quality; and
         (e)   All permanent storm water quality measures have been implemented
and are operational.
   (B)   Following acceptance of the NOT letter, the project site owner shall
notify all current individual lot owners and all subsequent individual lot
owners of the remaining undeveloped acreage and acreage with construction
activity that they are responsible for complying with this subchapter. The
remaining individual lot owners do not need to submit an NOI letter or NOT
letter. The notice must inform the individual lot owners of the requirements
to:
      (1)   Install and maintain appropriate measures to prevent sediment from
leaving the individual building lot; and
      (2)   Maintain all erosion and sediment control measures that are to
remain on-site as part of the construction plan.
   (C)   The DNR-DSC, other entity designated by the department or a regulated
MS4 entity, or the Department may inspect the project site to evaluate the
adequacy of the remaining storm water quality measures and compliance with the
NOT letter requirements. If the inspecting entity finds that the project site
owner has sufficiently filed an NOT letter, the entity shall forward
notification to the Department. Upon receipt of the verified NOT letter by the
Department and receipt of written approval from the Department, the project
site owner shall no longer be responsible for compliance with this rule.
   (D)   After a verified NOT letter has been submitted for a project site,
maintenance of the remaining storm water quality measures shall be the
responsibility of the individual lot owner or occupier of the property.
   (E)   A storm water quality management permit shall be considered open and
active until a time when the town accepts the site conditions and as-built
requirements have been completed.
   (F)   Acceptance of site conditions shall be made by the town based upon an
inspection. If any of the following items are deemed to be insufficient, not
appropriate, and/or inconsistent with the grading plan, storm water pollution
prevention plan, or objectives stated in this subchapter the approval will not
be granted.
   (G)   Pipes, channels, catch basins, water quality treatment devices, and
other infrastructure are clear of sediment, obstructions and debris, and are
designed and operating as appropriate for final site conditions:
      (1)   Slopes are permanently stabilized;
      (2)   Temporary erosion prevention or sediment control devices (such as
silt fence and staking, outlet protection, and the like) have been removed (as
appropriate) and any resulting soil disturbance stabilized;
      (3)   Temporary pollution prevention practices have been demobilized or
removed and affected areas stabilized;
      (4)   Sediment has been removed and slopes stabilized for permanent flood
control and water quality control practices;
      (5)   Detention pond grading is stabilized and/or excess sediment removed
so that actual volume is at least equal to designed volume and condition; and
      (6)   Other items as deemed to be important by the town.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.35 AS-BUILT REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to issuance of a use and occupancy permit or final release of bond,
the as-built condition of critical storm water management facilities must be
reviewed and approved.
   (A)   The volume, capacity, slope, configuration, condition, “as-planted”
plans and topographic information, as well as all pipe size, material, lengths,
for all detention, retention, and water quality practices shall be certified by
a professional engineer licensed in the state. This information shall be
provided to the town in the form of an as-built drawing or other electronic
form accepted/required by the town. The as-built certification shall indicate
if final conditions are consistent with, or exceed, the storm water quality
management permit provisions.
   (B)   If it is determined that information provided in the as-built drawing,
certification, inspection, or survey of the site do not meet or exceed the
storm water quality management permit requirements, the town reserves the right
to withhold certification of occupancy or final bond. Furthermore, other
enforcement mechanisms, as identified within this subchapter, may be applied to
the person certifying the as-built information.
   (C)   If upon inspection by the town it is determined that there is an item
that must be addressed to receive acceptance of site conditions, then the
person shall be required to continue inspections and maintenance as described
in the storm water quality management permit.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.36 INSPECTIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Permittee performed inspections (self inspections) must be performed
by a qualified professional.
   (B)   Inspections shall be performed at all control measures every 14 days
and within 24 hours of a one-quarter inch rain event. The inspections will
determine the overall effectiveness of the grading and storm water pollution
prevention plans, needed maintenance activities, and the need for additional
control measures.
   (C)   All inspections shall be documented in written form and made available
to the town or submitted at the time interval specified in the approved permit.
   (D)   Inspections shall be performed consistent with specific visual
maintenance checklists approved by the town.
   (E)   Documentation of permittee performed inspections and inspection
findings shall be kept on-site, if appropriate facilities (such as a project
trailer or building) are available. In the event that appropriate facilities
are not available then a copy of the most recent inspection shall be displayed
at the site along with other documents that must be displayed to the public per
other local, state, and federal regulations.
   (F)   Documentation of permittee performed inspections and inspection
findings shall be made available within three days of a request by the town.
Failure to post or timely submit documentation as requested will be assumed to
indicate that inspections were not performed and may result in corresponding
enforcement procedures. Inspection documentation shall include, but shall not
be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The address of the site;
      (2)   The parcel identification number;
      (3)   The name of the owner or owner’s agent;
      (4)   The location of the storm water system(s);
      (5)   A description of the current operational or functional status of
the storm water system(s). For sediment control structures, an indication of
used and remaining, capacity (fraction, percentage, depth, or volume) shall be
given to identify when the control must be cleaned out;
      (6)   Identification of any necessary repairs, sediment/debris removal,
or replacement of all or portions of the storm water system(s);
      (7)   The results of any field or laboratory analyses performed;
      (8)   Other relevant or unusual observations related to the system(s);
      (9)   Action plan to prevent premature storm water system failure as
consistent with the storm water quality management permit provisions; and/or
      (10)   Action plan to prevent the premature system failure that exceeds
the storm water quality management permit provisions, but are necessary to
prevent storm water pollution from leaving the site.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.37 OVERSIGHT INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The town shall have the authority to periodically inspect the site of
land disturbing activities for which permits have been issued; may make
inspections of the site at its discretion; and shall either approve the portion
of the work completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to
comply with the grading or storm water pollution prevention plans as approved
or is ineffective (regardless of consistency with an approved grading plan).
   (B)   (1)   The results of the inspections and findings will be presented
and reviewed with the permittee at the time of inspection (as available to site
personnel), and be available in the permit file within seven days.
      (2)   In order to obtain inspections, the permittee shall notify the town
at least two working days before the following activities: perimeter/outfall
protection permit approval - prior to the initiation of the project after
perimeter protection erosion prevention and sediment control practices have
been installed, but prior to disturbance of the remaining site.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.38 BOND RELEASE INSPECTIONS.
   Upon completion of the project in order to receive approval to cease
permittee inspections in compliance with the storm water quality management
permit, the town may:
   (A)   Identify any repairs, sediment/debris removal or replacement of all or
portions of the storm water system(s) necessary to comply with the objectives
of this subchapter and the storm water quality management permit;
   (B)   Develop and require the implementation of an action plan and
compliance schedule that prevents the premature storm water quality management
system failure as consistent with the storm water quality management permit
provisions; and/or
   (C)   Develop and require the implementation of an action plan to prevent
the premature system failure that exceeds the storm water quality management
permit provisions, but are necessary to prevent storm water pollution from
leaving the site.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.39 MAINTENANCE.
   Maintenance must be performed under the direction and/or supervision of a
qualified professional.
   (A)   Maintenance of erosion prevention, sediment control, and pollution
prevention practices shall be performed according to the grading and pollution
prevention plans.
   (B)   (1)   Maintenance activities shall be performed in accordance with
action plans developed through the course of permittee performed inspections.
      (2)   This may represent activities that exceed provisions of the grading
and pollution prevention plans, but are necessary to prevent storm water
pollution from leaving the site.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.40 QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   A qualified professional is required to perform routine inspections
and direct and/or supervise maintenance activities to ensure that the storm
water quality management permit provisions are being implemented properly.
   (B)   All qualified professionals performing inspections or overseeing
maintenance activities under this subchapter must be registered with the town
and certified prior to execution of those actions. All applicants must file an
application with the town. Applicants must demonstrate knowledge of
construction practices, operational standards, cause and failure indicators,
and maintenance measures used to prevent and correct failures.
      (1)   The town reserves the right to require that qualified professional
applicants pay a registration fee.
      (2)   The town reserves the right to require that qualified professional
applicants satisfactorily complete an approved training course.
      (3)   The town reserves the right to require that qualified professional
applicants be recertified as often as every five years.
      (4)   The town reserves the right to require that qualified professional
applicants successfully pass a written exam covering construction practices,
operational standards, causes and indicators of storm water quality management
system failures, and corrective actions as approved by the town.
      (5)   The town may de-certify any qualified professional under one or
more of the following circumstances:
         (a)   The individual fails to comply with this subchapter;
         (b)   The town determines that the individual is not qualified to
perform his or her duties hereunder;
         (c)   The individual is unable to properly perform an evaluation of a
storm water quality management system;
         (d)   The individual is negligent in the discharge of his or her
duties as outlined in the certification requirements;
         (e)   The individual submits false or misleading information; and/or
         (f)   The individual fails to maintain the required certification as
required by this subchapter.
      (6)   The town shall give written notice to a qualified professional
before being decertified. The inspector shall be given an opportunity at an
informal meeting to show cause why de-certification is not appropriate.
      (7)   A de-certified qualified professional may apply for re-
certification after one year.
      (8)   It shall be the responsibility of the town to:
         (a)   Administer and enforce this subchapter;
         (b)   Develop and administer a process for certifying qualified
professionals;
         (c)   Maintain a list of certified qualified professionals;
         (d)   Require corrective actions where there is evidence of a system
failure; and
         (e)   Establish criteria for the inspections and the certification of
qualified professionals and make such criteria and related forms available to
the public.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.41 FEES.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to require fees to cover expenses,
including, but not limited to, overhead, labor, storage, training, and the like
associated with the certification, training, and inspection process.
   (B)   Fees shall be paid prior to a certification training course and/or
exam.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.42 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town may institute appropriate actions or proceedings by law or
equity for the enforcement of this subchapter and shall, in each instance, be
entitled to recover its costs and attorney fees. Any court of competent
jurisdiction shall have the right to issue restraining orders, temporary or
permanent injunctions, and other appropriate forms of remedy or relief. Each
day of noncompliance is considered a separate offense; and nothing herein
contained shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation, including application for
injunctive relief. Any of the following enforcement remedies and penalties may
be applied independently, collectively, or in a sequence deemed necessary,
shall be available to the town in response to violations of this subchapter. If
the person, property, or facility has or is required to have a storm water
discharge permit from the IDEM, the town shall alert the appropriate state
authorities of the violation.
   (B)   Whenever the town finds that any person owning or occupying premises
has violated or is violating this subchapter or an order issued hereunder, the
enforcement official may serve such person, personally, or by registered or
certified mail, a written notice of violation (NOV). Within 30 days of the
receipt of this notice, or shorter period as may be prescribed in the NOV, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, which shall include specific required actions, shall be
submitted to the town. Submission of this plan shall not, however, affect
liability for violations of this subchapter.
   (C)   The town may revoke and require the surrender of a permit or
certificate by notifying the permit holder, in writing, the reason for the
revocation. Permits or certificates shall be revoked for: any substantial
departure from the approved application plans or specifications; refusal or
failure to comply with the requirements of state or local law; or, false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit or certificate.
Any permit or certificate mistakenly issued in violation of any applicable
state or local law may also be revoked.
   (D)   The town may issue a stop-work order and require that all activities
cease.
   (E)   If any person shall violate the provisions of this subchapter, the
town may give notice to the owner, responsible party, or to any person in
possession of the subject property ordering that all unlawful conditions
existing thereupon be abated within a scheduled period defined from the date of
such notice.
   (F)   The enforcement official shall have the authority to establish
elements of a storm water pollution prevention plan and require any business to
adopt and implement such a plan as may be reasonably necessary to fulfill the
purposes of this subchapter. The enforcement official may establish the
requirements of BMPs for any premises.
   (G)   If it is determined by the town that the unlawful condition is such
that there is an imminent danger or peril to the public, then the town may,
with or without notice, proceed to abate the same, with the costs of such
abatement to be charged to the owner, responsible party, or against the
property.
   (H)   Any violator may be required to clean and/or restore land to its
condition prior to the violation.
   (I)   If corrective action, including maintenance delinquency, is not taken
in the time specified or within a reasonable time, the town may undertake the
corrective action, and the cost of the abatement or corrective action shall be
assessed against the responsibility party, owner of the premises, and/or the
developer. If these costs are not paid within 90 days of invoice, the
enforcement official may initiate all appropriate legal actions to enforce the
claim.
   (J)   Any violation of this subchapter or of any condition, order,
requirement, or remedy adopted pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected,
abated, mandated, or enjoined by other appropriate proceeding pursuant to state
law.
   (K)   In addition to any other remedies provided in this subchapter, any
violation of this subchapter may be enforced by civil action brought by the
town. Monies recovered under this division (K) shall be paid to the town to be
used exclusively for costs associated with implementing or enforcing the
provisions of this subchapter. In any such action, the town may seek, as
appropriate, any or all of the following remedies:
      (1)   A temporary and/or permanent injunction;
      (2)   Assessment of the violator for the costs of any investigation,
inspection or monitoring survey which lead to the establishment of the
violation, and for the reasonable costs of preparing and bringing legal action
under this subsection, to include reasonable attorney fees and costs of the
action;
      (3)   Costs incurred in removing, correcting, or terminating the adverse
effects resulting from the violation;
      (4)   Compensatory damages for loss or destruction to water quality,
wildlife, fish, and aquatic life; and/or
      (5)   The town may order the abatement of any discharge from any source
to the storm water conveyance system when, in the opinion of the town, the
discharge causes or threatens to cause a condition that presents an imminent
danger to the public health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the town,
the environment, or is a violation of a NPDES permit. If such emergency
situations occur and the property owner or other responsible party is
unavailable or time constraints are such that service of a notice and order to
abate cannot be effected without presenting an immediate danger to the public
health, safety, or welfare, the town may perform or cause to be performed such
work as shall be necessary to abate said threat or danger. The costs of any
such abatement may be recovered as in §
153.08(I).
   (L)   The remedies listed in this subchapter are not exclusive of any
remedies available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and the
town may seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012) Penalty, see §
153.99
POST CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF CONTROL
§ 153.55 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter shall control storm water activities associated with post
construction site runoff control of the town.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.56 APPLICABILITY.
   All new development and redevelopment activities that result in the
disturbance of one or more acres of land within the town, including land
disturbing activities on individual lots of less than one acre as part of a
larger common plan of development of sale, shall develop a post-construction
storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) which includes provisions
necessary for minimizing the impacts of pollutants from the proposed land use.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.57 POST-CONSTRUCTION STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A storm water quality management permit may only be issued after the
review and acceptance of a post-construction SWPPP.
   (B)   The post-construction SWPPP is part of the storm water quality
management plan (SWQMP) and must include the following information:
      (1)   A description of potential pollutant sources from the proposed land
use that may reasonably be expected to add a significant amount of pollutants
to storm water discharges;
      (2)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all post-construction storm water quality best management practices
(BMPs). Reference §
153.59 for acceptable storm water quality BMPs;
      (3)   A description of BMPs that will be installed to control pollutants
in storm water discharges that will occur after construction activities have
been completed. Such practices include infiltration of run-off, flow reduction
by use of open vegetated swales and natural depressions, buffer strips and
riparian zone preservation, filter strip creation, minimization of land
disturbance and surface imperviousness, maximization of open space, and storm
water retention and detention ponds;
      (4)   A sequence describing when each post-construction storm water
quality BMP will be installed. Storm water quality BMPs that will remove or
minimize pollutants from storm water runoff. Storm water BMPs that will be
implemented to prevent or minimize adverse impact to stream and riparian
habitat; and
      (5)   (a)   A narrative description of the maintenance guidelines for all
post-construction storm water quality measures to facilitate their proper long-
term function.
         (b)   This narrative description shall be made available to future
parties who will assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the
post-construction storm water quality measures.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.58 BUFFERS.
   The SWPPP shall include provisions for buffers.
   (A)   No-disturbance buffer.
      (1)   The no-disturbance buffer will be used to define areas where land
disturbance activities shall not be permitted. Grading, clearing, and grubbing
shall not be permitted in this area, but pruning, trimming, and partial removal
of standing vegetation is permitted.
      (2)   The NO-DISTURBANCE WATERWAY buffer shall be defined as 25 feet from
the top of the waterway bank as defined by geomorphic shape (not by the current
water surface elevation).
      (3)   The no-disturbance waterway buffer shall be applied to all
waterways and drainage systems that drain more than 25 acres of contributing
area or are represented on a United States Geological Survey map as a blue line
stream.
   (B)   Waterway buffer. 
      (1)   The waterway buffer will be used to define areas where land
disturbance activities shall be permitted, but construction of any building or
structure shall not be permitted.
         (a)   A waterway buffer shall be applied to all waterways serving more
than 25 acres of tributary area or those represented on a United States
Geological Survey map as a blue line stream.
         (b)   Automatic exemptions may be applied for the following (provided
erosion prevention and sediment control, water quality, and cut-fill policies
are adequately addressed):
            1.   Roads and utilities crossing waterways; and
            2.   Pedestrian trails and walkways proximate to waterways.
      (2)   The WATERWAY BUFFER shall be defined as the area contained within a
boundary established 25-feet beyond the floodplain boundary as defined by FEMA
or 50-feet from the top of waterway bank as defined by geomorphic shape (not by
the current water surface elevation) which ever is larger. At a minimum, the
WATERWAY BUFFER shall be at least the width of the no-disturbance buffer, if
applicable.
      (3)   The waterway buffer and floodplain may be used for application of
water quality devices. This may only be permitted provided erosion prevention
and sediment control, water quality, and cut-fill policies are adequately
addressed as determined by the town according to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.59 APPROVED STORM WATER AND BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS).
   (A)   The SWPPP shall include provisions for storm water quality BMPs
functioning independently or in combination.
   (B)   Acceptable storm water quality BMPs include:
      (1)   Vegetated buffers;
      (2)   Bioretention swales;
      (3)   Vegetated and forested buffer strips;
      (4)   Level spreaders;
      (5)   Infiltration systems;
      (6)   Dry detention ponds;
      (7)   Wet detention ponds;
      (8)   Retention ponds;
      (9)   Constructed and pocket wetlands;
      (10)   Media filtration and screening systems;
      (11)   Baffle boxes and grit separators;
      (12)   Hydrodynamic separator systems;
      (13)   Sediment forebays;
      (14)   Oil/water separators;
      (15)   Vault storage/infiltration BMPs (infiltration prohibited within
wellhead protection areas); and
      (16)   Other measures reviewed and accepted by the town.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.60 BMP DESIGN REQUIREMENTS AND CRITERIA.
   (A)   The SWPPP shall include provisions for storm water quality BMPs that
are designed to achieve the following design/performance objectives:
      (1)   Reduce total suspended solids (TSS) from the first flush as defined
by land use characteristics and contributing area; or, capture and treatment of
at least one-half inch precipitation applied over the contributing area. Reduce
or buffer increases in storm runoff temperature caused by contact with
impervious surfaces; and
      (2)   Storm water detention/retention facilities shall be designed to
address the rate at which flow is released over the entire runoff discharge
period and the volume of discharge over the critical design storm period. The
outlet structure shall be designed as a v-notch weir or other multiple stage
configurations capable of controlling the discharge rates for the two-, ten-,
and 100-year design-storm events.
   (B)   The Indiana Drainage Handbook or the Indiana Storm Water Quality
Manual should be reviewed and considered when preparing the SWPPP.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to develop or adopt other guidance
documents to serve as design and implementation standards. Other guidance
documents distributed by the town should be reviewed and considered when
preparing the SWPPP. These documents may be applied as standards by which
designs are to be prepared and controls implemented. The town shall have
authority to implement this chapter by appropriate regulations, guidance, or
other related materials. In this regard, technical, administrative, or
procedural matters may be modified as needed to meet the objectives defined
herein, so long as such modifications as to technical, administrative, or
procedural matters are not contrary to or beyond the intent of the objectives
defined herein.
   (D)   Regulations, guidance, or other related materials that may be given
authority by this chapter may include, but are not limited to: best management
practice (BMP) manuals; design regulations and requirements; submission
checklists; review checklists; inspection checklists; certifications; storm
water management manuals; and operation and maintenance manuals.
   (E)   Materials may include information deemed appropriate by the town
including guidance and specifications for the preparation of grading plans,
selecting environmentally sound practices for managing storm water, minimum
specifications and requirements, more complete definitions, and performance
standards.
   (F)   The above referenced documents shall not in any way require specific
commercially available products. However, they may refer to performance
specifications, class of devices, construction, or management practice.
   (G)   The above referenced documents may restrict or prevent the use of
specific products, techniques, or management practices (that are to be accepted
by the public or are deemed to have a negative impact on public infrastructure
or the MS4) that have been identified as unacceptable for performance,
maintenance, or other technically based reasons.
   (H)   Documents referenced above may be updated periodically to reflect the
most current and effective practices and shall be made available to the public.
However, the failure to update the manual shall not relieve any applicant from
the obligation to comply with this chapter, and shall not prevent the town from
imposing the most current and effective practices.
   (I)   Soil bioengineering, green, and other soft slope and stream bank
stabilization methods shall receive preference over rip-rap, concrete, and
other hard armoring techniques. Hard alternatives shall only be permitted when
their necessity can be demonstrated given site-specific conditions.
   (J)   Retention supportive data must be submitted to justify the type of
facility selected. If the facility is designed to retain (volume control) all
or a significant portion of runoff (as opposed to temporarily detain it), then
appropriate soils analyses shall be submitted to the town. This submission
shall also discuss the impacts the facility will have on local karst topography
as found through a geotechnical investigation of the site. The facility may be
designed to infiltrate runoff to groundwater rather than transmit it downstream
under conditions up to a ten-year storm event. It must be able to bypass all
other storms up to a 100-year event with a discharge rate equivalent to or less
than pre-development conditions without negatively impacting the 100-year
floodplain above or below the site. If data indicates that the facility can not
retain a significant portion of the runoff (95%), then the facility must be
sized to detain runoff.
   (K)   Detention facilities may, and are encouraged to, be designed to serve
multiple purposes. For example, runoff may be detained under wet-weather
conditions in facilities that also serve as common or recreational areas during
dry-weather conditions. Where multipurpose facilities are provided, or where
flat grades or poorly draining soils are encountered, provisions for adequate
low-flow storm water management systems may be required. Where the retention/
detention facility is planned to be used as a lake, pond, or storm water
quality management practice with a permanent pool, water budget calculations
shall be performed and submitted to demonstrate that an adequate pool is
expected during dry summer months.
   (L)   A licensed professional engineer shall approve and sign all plans for
construction, to include all proposed improvements or modifications to existing
or new storm water infrastructure and other related improvements or
modifications.
   (M)   The town reserves the right to require supercede or additional
treatment criteria or objectives for specific pollutant(s) as necessary to meet
overall storm water quality management program objectives or directives under a
watershed improvement or total maximum daily load (TDML) program.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.61 BMP OWNERSHIP AND EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Any storm water management facility or BMP which services individual
property owners or subdivisions shall be privately owned. General routine
maintenance (controlling vegetative growth and removing debris) shall be
provided by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall maintain a perpetual, non-
exclusive easement that allows access for inspection and emergency maintenance
by the town. The town has the right, but not the duty, to enter premises for
emergency repairs.
   (B)   Any storm water management facility or BMP which services an
individual subdivision in which the facility or BMP is within designated open
areas or an amenity with an established homeowners’ association shall be
privately owned and maintained by the owner consistent with provisions of this
chapter. The owner shall maintain a perpetual, nonexclusive easement which
allows for access for inspection and emergency maintenance by the town. The
town has the right, but not the duty, to enter premises for emergency repairs.
   (C)   Any storm water management facility or BMP which services commercial
and industrial development shall be privately owned and maintained. The owner
shall maintain a perpetual, nonexclusive easement which allows for access for
inspection and emergency maintenance by the town. The town has the right, but
not the duty, to enter premises for emergency repairs.
   (D)   All regional storm water management control facilities proposed by the
owner(s), if approved and accepted by the town, shall, upon dedication as a
public regional facility, be publicly owned and/or maintained.
   (E)   All other storm water management control facilities and BMPs shall be
privately owned and/or maintained unless accepted for maintenance by the town.
   (F)   The town may require dedication of privately owned storm water
facilities, which discharge to the town storm water system.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.62 COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL BMPS.
   (A)   All property owners are expected to implement adequate on-site storm
water quality control measures, but the extent thereof may be reduced given the
availability, proximity, and nature of regional storm water quality BMPs.
   (B)   The extent and type of on-site storm water quality management
practices implemented must be proportionate to the land use, pollutant
discharge potential, and proximity to regional storm water quality management
practices.
   (C)   For properties where storm water quantity management practices are
either not feasible, or not necessary in lieu of regional storm water quantity
controls, the town has the right to require on-site controls for storm water
quality.
   (D)   The town encourages regional storm water quantity and/or quality
management practices, serving 25 to 250 acres of tributary area, which may be
consistently and efficiently managed and maintained. These types of practices
will be encouraged in order to replace or reduce the implementation of on-site
storm water quantity and/or quality management practices, as determined to be
appropriate by the town.
   (E)   Where a regional storm water management facility has been established
by one or more local governments, or by an authority operating on behalf of one
or more local governments, a development or property owner may participate in
said program in lieu of runoff control required by this chapter.
      (1)   This may be permitted provided that:
         (a)   Runoff from the development drains to an approved existing or
proposed public regional storm water management facility that will be
operational within one year of commencement of development;
         (b)   The total value of such participation by contribution of funds,
contribution of land, contribution of storm water management facility
construction work, or a combination of these, shall equal or exceed the
appropriate fee imposed or to be imposed by the town with respect alternative
private controls;
         (c)   The town finds that the storm water quality management plans are
in compliance with all other applicable requirements and ordinances; and
         (d)   Each fiscal or in-kind contribution from a development owner
participating in a regional storm water quality management facility shall be
used for acquisition, design, construction, or maintenance of one or more such
facilities in the same watershed in which the development is located.
      (2)   Redevelopment of properties containing on-site storm water quantity
management practices may be permitted, at the discretion of the town, provided
the subject property and downstream public and private properties,
infrastructure or waters of the state are adequately protected by a regional
facility(s) from storm water quantity or quality impacts.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.63 COORDINATION WITH MASTER PLAN AND WATERSHED STUDIES.
   (A)   If available, each SWPPP shall be evaluated for consistency with the
storm water master plan or watershed study for the major watershed or
watersheds within which the project site is located. The individual project
evaluation will determine if storm water quantity and quality management
practices can adequately serve the property and limit impacts to downstream
public and private properties. The presence of a regional facility(s) will be
considered in determining the extent to which quantity and/or quality controls
will be necessary.
   (B)   Special design criteria or requirements may be applied to storm water
quality BMPs based on the direction or results of master plans, watershed
studies and/or total maximum daily load (TMDL) requirements.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.64 STORM WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN PERMIT CLOSURE.
   (A)   A SWQMP shall be considered open and active until the time when the
town accepts the site conditions, as-built requirements have been completed,
and a long-term operation and maintenance agreement has been accepted.
   (B)   Acceptance of site conditions shall be made by the town through
inspection. If any of the following items are deemed to be insufficient, not
appropriate, and/or inconsistent with the SWPPP or objectives stated in this
chapter, then approval will not be granted:
      (1)   Pipes, channels, catch basins, water quality treatment devices, and
other infrastructure are clear of sediment, obstructions, and debris, and are
designed and operating as appropriate for final site conditions;
      (2)   Slopes are permanently stabilized;
      (3)   Temporary erosion prevention or sediment control devices (such as
silt fence and staking, outlet protection, and the like) have been removed (as
appropriate) and any resulting soil disturbance stabilized;
      (4)   Temporary pollution prevention practices have been demobilized,
removed, and/or affected areas stabilized;
      (5)   Sediment has been removed and slopes stabilized for permanent flood
control and water quality control practices;
      (6)   Detention pond grading is stabilized and/or excess sediment removed
so that actual volume is at least equal to design volume and condition; and/or
      (7)   Other items as deemed important by the town.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.65 AS-BUILT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a use and occupancy permit, or final release of
bond, the as-built condition, including invert elevations, size, shape, and
location of critical storm water management features, must be identified and
approved.
   (B)   The volume, slopes, configuration, condition, and topographic
information of all detention, retention, and water quality practices shall be
certified by a licensed professional engineer. This information shall be
provided to the town in the form of an as-built drawing or other electronic
form accepted/required by the town. The as-built certification shall indicate
if final conditions are consistent with, or exceed, the SWQMP provisions.
   (C)   If it is determined that information provided in the as-built drawing,
certification, inspection, or survey of the site do not meet or exceed the
SWQMP provisions, the town reserves the right to withhold certification of
occupancy or release of final bond. Furthermore, other enforcement mechanisms,
as identified within this chapter, may be initiated to ensure compliance.
   (D)   If upon inspection by the town, or its designated representative, it
is determined that acceptance of site conditions is inappropriate by virtue of
deficiencies, the permittee shall continue inspections and maintenance, as
described in the SWQMP, pending such acceptance.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.66 LONG-TERM OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A SWQMP may not be closed until a long-term operation and maintenance
agreement has been accepted by the town.
   (B)   Long-term operation and maintenance agreements shall include a
maintenance plan for all storm water quality BMPs in new development or
redevelopment that require more than general maintenance (e.g., periodic
mowing).
   (C)   The plan will be developed to ensure that the storm water quality BMPs
are kept functional. The maintenance agreement will specify minimum operation
and maintenance requirements and intervals to be performed by the property
owner.
   (D)   The plan shall address schedules for inspections and techniques for
operation and maintenance including vegetation clearing or mowing and removing
accumulated trash, debris, sediment pollutants, and other forms of pollution.
   (E)   The agreement shall be noted on the final plat with the appropriate
notation on the particular lot(s).
   (F)   The agreement shall be recorded so as to be binding on the owner, its
administrators, executors, assigns, heirs, and any other successors in
interest.
   (G)   A suggested format for the long-term operational and maintenance
agreement is included in Appendix C of the ordinance codified herein
   (H)   Provisions shall be made to assure that water detention and retention
facilities do not become nuisances or health hazards. Detention and retention
facilities should be designed to require minimal maintenance, and maintenance
expectations must be clearly stated in a long-term operation and maintenance
agreement.
   (I)   When a storm water quality BMP serves more than one parcel, an owners’
association or binding contract for the purpose of operation and maintenance is
required. The owners’ association shall be responsible for operation and
maintenance as directed by this chapter.
   (J)   The maintenance responsibilities for permanent storm water quality
BMPs shall be determined based upon the type of ownership of the property which
is controlled by the facilities.
   (K)   Where the permanent storm water runoff control facilities are designed
to manage runoff from property in single entity ownership, the maintenance
responsibility for the storm water control facilities shall be with the single
entity owner.
   (L)   A SINGLE ENTITY shall be defined as an association, public or private
corporation, partnership firm, trust, estate, or any other legal entity allowed
to own real estate, exclusive of an individual lot owner.
   (M)   The stated responsibilities of the entity shall be documented in the
form of a long-term operation and maintenance agreement. Terms including
ownership, operation, and maintenance of the facilities shall be submitted with
an application for a SWQMP, so as to permit a determination of adequacy.
Approval of a SWQMP shall be conditioned upon the approval of the agreement,
which shall be in writing and recordable form, and shall, in addition to any
other terms deemed necessary by the town, contain a provision permitting
inspection of all facilities at any reasonable time by the town.
   (N)   As a condition for approval of the storm water quality BMPs by the
town, the facility owner(s) shall demonstrate the ability to guarantee and
apply the financial resources necessary for long-term maintenance requirements.
The town will accept a funding mechanism for long-term maintenance
responsibilities only if same can be demonstrated to be permanent or
transferable to another entity with equivalent longevity.
   (O)   (1)   In the event that proposed funding is through an owners’
association, it must be demonstrated that the association may not be dissolved
unless long-term operation and maintenance activities are accepted by another
entity with equivalent longevity and adequate funding.
      (2)   Furthermore, the owners’ association’s responsibility must be
stated in the association’s declaration, covenants, or by-laws, as appropriate.
   (P)   Unless made specifically clear in the preliminary stages of the site
design and construction plan review procedure, it will be assumed that all
storm water detention, retention, treatment, or storage facilities and/or
devices shall be owned, operated, and maintained by a single entity as defined
above.
   (Q)   Where the town has accepted an offer of dedication of permanent storm
water quality BMPs, the town shall be responsible for operation and
maintenance.
   (R)   (1)   The town may require the posting of a maintenance bond to secure
the structural integrity of said facilities as well as the functioning of said
facilities in accordance with the approved SWQMP for a term of 18 months from
the date of acceptance of dedication.
      (2)   The town may approve a cash contribution in lieu of a maintenance
bond, provided that the contribution be approximately equivalent to the amount
that would be estimated for such bond.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties generally.
      (1)   Any person who has been found to have violated of any provision of
this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed the amount the
lessor of that set forth in this division (A) or the maximum amount permitted
by law.
      (2)   The penalty shall increase by 25% of the previous penalty amount
for every subsequent but separate offense made by the same person. This penalty
shall be in addition to other enforcement actions of this division (A) and §
153.08.
      (3)   The penalty may be assessed for each day that the prohibited
activity continues beyond those schedules set forth in compliance orders or
other abatement schedules issued to the property owner or other person
responsible by the town.
      (4)   In determining the amount of the penalty, the Court shall consider
the following:
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to the public or private property resulting from the
violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quality;
         (d)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The cumulative effect of other enforcement actions applied for
the same offense; and
         (h)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the storm water quality management program; and
         (I)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
      (5)   A civil penalty of not more than $2,500 may be assessed for the
following offenses:
         (a)   Development without permit. To engage in any development, use,
construction, remodeling, or other activity of any nature upon land or
improvements thereon, subject to the jurisdiction of this chapter without all
required permits, certificates or other forms of authorization as set forth in
this chapter.
         (b)   Development inconsistent with permit. To engage in any
development, use, construction, remodeling, or other activity of any nature in
any way inconsistent with any approved plan, permit, certificate, or other form
of authorization granted for such activity.
         (c)   Violation by act or omission. To violate, by act or omission,
any term, variance, modification, condition, or qualification placed by the
town upon any required permit, certificate, or other form of authorization of
the use, development, or other activity upon land or improvements thereon.
         (d)   Illicit discharge. To improperly dispose of any substance
defined as an illicit discharge.
         (e)   Household products. To improperly dispose of any substance not
included in this division (A) or §
153.08 that was purchased over-the-counter for household use, in quantities
considered normal for household purposes, which upon discharge to the MS4 or
drainage network would have an adverse impact on water quality or cause the
town to be in noncompliance with any applicable environmental permit.
      (6)   In the event there are penalties assessed by the state against the
town and resulting from a violation of this chapter, the person responsible for
such violation may be assessed the lessor of the amount of the penalty assessed
as against the town or $2,500.
   (B)   Penalties for §§
153.25 through
153.42.
      (1)   Any person that has been found to have violated any provision of
this §§
153.25 through
153.42 may be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed the lessor of the amount
presented in this division (B), §
153.42, or the maximum amount permitted by law.
      (2)   The penalty shall increase by 25% of the previous penalty amount
for every subsequent but separate offense made by the same person. This penalty
shall be in addition to other enforcement actions of §
153.42 and this division (B).
      (3)   The penalty may be assessed for each day that the prohibited
activity continues beyond those schedules set forth in compliance orders or
other abatement schedules issued to the property owner, or other person
responsible, by the town.
      (4)   In determining the amount of the penalty, the Court shall consider
the following:
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to the public or private property resulting from the
violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quality;
         (d)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The cumulative effect of other enforcement actions applied for
the same offense;
         (h)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the storm water quality management program; and
         (I)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
      (5)   A civil penalty of not more than $2,500 may be assessed for each of
the following offenses:
         (a)   Development without permit. To engage in any development, use,
construction, remodeling, or other activity of any nature upon land or
improvements thereon, subject to the jurisdiction of §§
153.25 through
153.42 without all required permits, certificates, or other forms of
authorization as set forth in this §§
153.25 through
153.42;
         (b)   Development inconsistent with permit. To engage in any
development, use, construction, remodeling, or other activity of any nature in
any way inconsistent with any approved plan, permit, certificate, or other form
of authorization granted for such activity; and
         (c)   Violation by act or omission. To violate, by act or omission,
any term, variance, modification, condition or qualification placed by the town
or its designated representative upon any required permit, certificate, or
other form of authorization of the use, development, or other activity upon
land or improvements thereon.
      (6)   In the event there are penalties assessed by the state against the
town and resulting from a violation of §§
153.25 through
153.42, the person responsible for such violation may be assessed the lessor of
the amount of the penalty assessed as against the town or $2,500.
(Ord. G-12-02, passed 1-17-2012)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Objectives
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
154.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
154.08   Establishment of floodplain development permits
   
154.09   Compliance
   
154.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
154.12   Interpretation
   
154.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.14   Effective date
Administration
   
154.25   Designation of Administrator
   
154.26   Permit procedures
   
154.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Restrictions
   
154.40   General standards
   
154.41   Specific standards
   
154.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
154.43   Critical facility
   
154.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
154.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
154.46   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
154.47   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
154.60   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
154.61   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
154.62   Variance procedures
   
154.63   Conditions for variances
   
154.64   Variance notification
   
154.65   Historic structure
   
154.66   Special conditions
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has, in I.C. 36-7-4, granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR, and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE and A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and the state.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use, or store hazardous materials
or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ORDINANCE, and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter HARDSHIP means the
exceptional HARDSHIP that would result from a failure to grant the requested
variance. The Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is
exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or
financial HARDSHIP alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic
considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of
one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP.
All of these problems can be resolved through other means without granting a
variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property
owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally
intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1, 1997
will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; or
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and/or
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures; and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is: built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters for
recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
154.07. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, ONE-PERCENT
ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a 30-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAS of the town are
generally identified as such on the county and incorporated areas flood
insurance rate map dated December 4, 2012 as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al-
A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
SHADED X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). UNSHADED X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood.
   (B)   The best available regulatory flood data is listed below.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the county and
incorporated areas and the corresponding flood insurance rate map dated
December 4, 2012 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for
each of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an A Zone
on the county and incorporated areas flood insurance rate map dated December 4,
2012 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date, shall be
according to the best data available as provided by the state’s Department of
Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party needs to replace existing data with better data that
meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must be
submitted to the state’s Department of Natural Resources for review and
subsequently approved.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the
SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   (1)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is
above the base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site
shall be considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be
applied.
      (2)   The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
   (C)   Therefore, this chapter does not create any liability on the part of
the town, the state’s Department of Natural Resources, or the state, for any
flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall take effect upon its passage by the Town Council.
   (B)   All of which was ordained on August 15, 2016.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.25 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council hereby appoints the Building Commissioner to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials, or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed; and/or
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See §
154.27(B)(6) for additional information.)
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure
or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk.
         (b)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a
floodproofed structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered professional
engineer and certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
floodproofing certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the floodproofing certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an
elevation certification which depicts the as-built lowest floor elevation is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project
includes a floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be
submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
154.44 and
154.46(A) of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and as-built elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
154.26;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
154.26;
      (13)   Stop-work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   Revocation of permits:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based; and/or
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD RESTRICTIONS
§ 154.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Building protection requirements. In addition to the requirements of §
154.40, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; or
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to, or above, the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to, or above, the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all A Zones may be floodproofed in
lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator as set forth in §
154.27(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures. 
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and/or
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one-foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from, or onto, neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed: on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall:
         (a)   Be on-site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); and
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of flood waters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as
required for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.43 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to, or above, the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to, or above,
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.44 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
154.07, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the state’s Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing,
paving, and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
154.40 through
154.47 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of, the floodway. This adverse effect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood
elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway
condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.45 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
154.40 through
154.47 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.46 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the state’s Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
154.40 through
154.47 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
154.40 through
154.47 have been met.
   (C)   Cumulative effect. The total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not increase the regulatory flood more than fourteen-hundredths of a foot
and shall not increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.47 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
154.40 through
154.47.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 154.60 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.61 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.62 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.63 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and/or
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
154.44 or
154.46(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
154.44 or
154.46(A) will require a permit from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
154.41, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to, and surrounded by, lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See § 154.64.)
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the state’s Department of Natural Resources upon request (see §
154.64).
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.64 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.65 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.66 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
154.60 through
154.66, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the zoning code for the town. All violations shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500. A separate offense shall be deemed to
occur for each day the violation continues to exist. The Floodplain
Administrator shall inform the owner that any such violation is considered a
willful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause coverage by a
standard flood insurance policy to be suspended. Nothing herein shall prevent
the town from taking such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any
violations. All costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons
responsible.
(Ord. G-16-08, passed 8-15-2016)
CHAPTER 155: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   Permit required
   
155.03   Application procedure
   
155.04   Temporary permits
   
155.05   Subdivisions
   
155.06   Office or construction use
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A vehicle or other portable structure that is designed to move
on the highway and which is designed or used as a dwelling unit as
manufactured, and which width exceeds 23 feet for at least 32 feet of length.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land on which two or more mobile homes are
regularly accommodated with or without charge, including any buildings,
utilities, or other structures, fixtures or equipment that is used or is
intended to be used in providing those accommodations, and which has been
designated as such by the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 155.01) (Ord. G-85-01, passed 4-8-1985)
§ 155.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to locate any
mobile home as defined within this chapter without first having received a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter by the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 155.02) (Ord. G-85-01, passed 4-8-1985) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation wishing to occupy, use, place, or
erect in any manner a mobile home, as defined herein, shall first secure an
application from the Town Council. The application shall be issued at a regular
meeting of the Town Council, subject to the provisions set out herein.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide a plot plan which shall include, but not
be limited to:
      (1)   The legal or site description of the real estate involved; and
      (2)   The location and size of all buildings or structures which are on
the lot or are to be placed on the lot.
   (C)   The applicant shall also provide proof of certification by the County
Health Department as to the sanitary system; proof of compliance as to the
electrical hookup to be serviced from Public Service of the state; proof that
any fuel storage tanks to be used meet specifications of the State Fire
Marshal’s office; and proof of compliance with any other state or local
regulatory agencies.
      (1)   No application shall be granted for the placement of a mobile home
as defined on any lot less than 20,000 square feet, unless that lot is part of
a mobile home park as defined herein. No application shall be approved for more
than one mobile home on the same lot, or on a lot already occupied by a
dwelling unit or other structure, unless that lot be part of a mobile home
park. No application shall be approved for the placement of a mobile home if
the placement is to be within 20 feet of the property line in any direction. No
application shall be approved for the placement of any mobile home within 300
feet from a point on a line perpendicular from the center of Indiana Highway 64
bordered by the town limits of the town, now or hereinafter amended.
      (2)   All mobile homes approved for placement by the Town Council shall
be connected to utilities in accordance with state and local regulations,
ordinances, and requirements.
      (3)   All mobile homes approved for placement shall be placed on a
permanent foundation and have all wheels, axles and hitching mechanisms
removed. The foundation shall be sufficient to ensure the stability of the
mobile home under all usual weather conditions, and each mobile home shall have
a permanent type skirting installed. This skirting shall be tight enough to
prevent the use of the area under the mobile home as a harbor or den for
rodents, vermin, or other animals.
(2005 Code, § 155.03) (Ord. G-85-01, passed 4-8-1985) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   Upon the showing of due hardship, an applicant may apply for a temporary
permit, and the Town Council, upon a finding of hardship, may allow a 30-day
permit to an applicant who cannot comply with the above specifications. This
permit shall be allowed only upon the showing of hardship and may be renewed at
the discretion of the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 155.04) (Ord. G-85-01, passed 4-8-1985)
§ 155.05 SUBDIVISIONS.
   No permit shall be allowed for a mobile home to be placed in a platted
subdivision within the town.
(2005 Code, § 155.05) (Ord. G-85-01, passed 4-8-1985)
§ 155.06 OFFICE OR CONSTRUCTION USE.
   If the applicant desires to use the mobile home for a temporary office,
construction office, or storage unit, he or she shall file for a temporary
permit, designating the use for which he or she wishes to place the mobile
home, its location and the approximate time period for which the applicant
wishes to use the mobile home as such. The application shall then be submitted
to the Town Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting, or in order to
prevent undue hardship, at a specially called meeting, at which time the
Council may, after due deliberation and hearing testimony from all interested
persons, allow the temporary permit, placing upon it any stipulations thereon
which the Council in its discretion feels would best serve the interest of the
residents of the town.
(2005 Code, § 155.06) (Ord. G-85-01, passed 4-8-1985)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of $100 and an additional fine of $10 per day for the continuance of the
violation.
(2005 Code, § 155.99) (Ord. G-85-01, passed 4-8-1985)
CHAPTER 156: CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Authority
   
156.04   Payment of fees
   
156.05   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
Fees
   
156.35   Building permit fees
   
156.36   Electrical fees
   
156.37   Plumbing fees
   
156.38   HVAC fees
   
156.39   Inspector initiated re-inspections
   
156.40   Requirements for contractors
   
156.41   Temporary structures
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the “Fee Schedule for Improvement Location Permits” or “this chapter” or
“chapter”.
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish:
   (A)   Exact dollar amounts to be charged for improvement location permits;
   (B)   Contractor fees.
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006; Ord. G-20-01, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 156.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce
this chapter.
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006; Ord. G-20-01, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 156.04 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Fees shall be collected by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 156.05 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this chapter of any
other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   These rights, liabilities, and other proceedings are continued and
penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance
as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006)
FEES
§ 156.35 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   One- and two-family dwelling structures including modular home and
manufactured home.
Above-ground swimming pools (applicants must have   $40 site inspection (prior)
utility locates)
Accessory building (permanent) over 200 square foot $75
with footers
Accessory building (permanent) over 200 square foot $50
without footers
Decks and unenclosed porches (with footers)         $40
General rate of all floor area including attached   $0.10 per square foot
garages and basements
In-ground swimming pools (applicants must have      $40 site inspection (prior)
utility locates)
Minimum fee (dwelling)                              $50
Re-inspection fee (commercial or industrial)        $35
Re-inspection fee (residential)                     $25
Room additions                                      $0.10 per square foot
 
   (B)   Multi-family dwellings. The general rate for all multi-family
dwellings (three units or more) shall be $0.25 per square foot gross floor area
per floor including basements.
   (C)   All new construction other than dwellings. 
      (1)   The general rate for all commercial, public, and industrial
buildings shall be $0.20 per square foot.
      (2)   For any remodel work to an existing building there shall be a
permit required at a fee of $25. Permits are required only for work that alters
the structure of an existing building including, but not limited to, moving a
wall, removing a wall, or replacing rafters.
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.36 ELECTRICAL FEES.
   (A)   Residential.
 
Additions                               $30 plus $20 per inspection
Multi-family dwelling (3 units or more) $30 per unit plus $20 per unit
                                        inspection
New construction/total rewire           $30 plus $20 per inspection
Service change                          $40
Upgrade service                         $60
 
   (B)   Commercial.
 
New construction and total rewire $100 plus $30 per inspection
Service change                    $150
 
   (C)   Industrial.
 
New construction and total rewire $35
Service change                    $300
 
   (D)   Miscellaneous.
Above-ground pool                                   $25
Air conditioning circuits                           $35
Cellular tower panels                               $35 per panel
Commercial and industrial refrigeration             $70
Electric signs                                      $25
In-ground pool                                      $50
Miscellaneous electrical (commercial or industrial) $35
Miscellaneous electrical (residential)              $25
Re-inspection fee (commercial)                      $35
Re-inspection fee (industrial)                      $35
Re-inspection fee (residential)                     $25
Temporary permits                                   $40
 
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.37 PLUMBING FEES.
   (A)   Residential.
 
Additional fixtures                                 $2 per fixture
Minimum charges for permit to alter or change
existing plumbing or pipe work within the building, $30
with such changes or alterations of 1 fixture only
New construction (includes 1 fixture)               $30 plus $20 per inspection
Re-inspection fee                                   $25
Replacement water heaters (electric)                $20 voluntary inspection
Replacement water heaters (gas)                     $25
 
   (B)   Commercial or industrial.
 
Additional fixtures                                 $4 per fixture
Minimum charges for permit to alter or change
existing plumbing or pipe work within the building, $50
with such changes or alterations of 1 fixture only
New construction (includes 1 fixture)               $30 plus $20 per inspection
Re-inspection fee                                   $35
Replacement water heaters (all)                     $30
 
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.38 HVAC FEES.
   (A)   Residential.
Addition of a new trunk line                  $30
Air conditioners, 24,000 BTU per hour or more $30 each
Furnace in new or old building                $30
Furnace replacement                           $25
Heat pump                                     $30
HVAC units                                    $30 each unit
Permanent space heater in new or old building $30
Permanent space heater replacement            $25
Re-inspection fee                             $25
Replacement HVAC units                        $25 each
Solar system                                  $30 each
Unit heater in new or old building            $30
Unit heater replacement                       $25
 
   (B)   Commercial and industrial.
Addition of a new trunk line                  $40
Air conditioners, 24,000 BTU per hour or more $40 each
Commercial refrigeration                      $40 per unit
Furnace in new or old building                $40 each
Furnace replacement                           $35
Heat pump                                     $40
HVAC units                                    $40 each unit
Kitchen exhaust system                        $40 each
Permanent space heater in new or old building $40
Permanent space heater replacement            $35
Re-inspection fee                             $35
Replacement HVAC units                        $35 each
Solar system                                  $40 each
Unit heater in new or old building            $40
Unit heater replacement                       $35
 
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.39 INSPECTOR INITIATED RE-INSPECTIONS.
   Whenever the Building Inspector has initiated a re-inspection on new
construction and has determined that violation(s) exist, a $25 re-inspection
fee shall be charged, for each type of violation, before re-inspections to
verify corrections will be scheduled.
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006)
§ 156.40 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Annual fee. Each contractor shall submit an annual fee of $25 to the
Building Commissioner before providing services within the town or its
jurisdiction, to be renewed each year by January 1 of every year thereafter.
   (B)   Insurance. 
      (1)   Each contractor must register with the Town Hall and provide proof
of insurance coverage in an amount not less than $1,000,000 for general
contractors and $300,000 for subcontractors and maintain coverage for
accidental injury to persons and/or property.
      (2)   Each contractor shall provide a current certificate of insurance
and any and all other proof of insurance for the amount specified herein to the
Building Commissioner.
      (3)   The certificate must be updated each year by January 1 of every
year thereafter.
      (4)   Each contractor shall be responsible for obtaining permits in his
or her field of work and shall not be allowed to apply for permits for other
fields, such as, electrical contractors shall obtain electrical permits,
plumbers shall obtain plumbing permits, and the like.
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.41 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   Temporary structures include seasonal or mobile buildings which do not
remain on the premises for more than one year. All temporary structures require
building permits, which shall be issued at a cost reflected by the length of
time the structure remains on the premises: for structures which stand for a
period of time not exceeding six months, a fee of $50 will be charged; and for
structures which stand for six months to a year, a fee of $100 will be charged.
Structures which remain on the premises for a period of time exceeding one year
are deemed permanent and require compliance with the provisions of tins code
which apply to permanent structures.
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a permit prior to commencement of construction, or the
first business day after necessary construction pertaining to an emergency
situation, deemed so by the Building Commissioner, shall require the applicant
to pay twice the required fee and a flat rate of $100 in order to obtain each
required permit. Any and all other penalties stated elsewhere in this code of
ordinances shall still apply.
(Ord. G-06-35, passed 11-16-2006)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 2005 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                  Code Section
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
3-7-13                        30.02
4-21.5                        53.133
4-21.5 et seq.                53.102
4-21.5-3-7                    151.059
4-22-2                        152.15
5-3-1                         152.17,
                              156.24
5-3-1 et seq.                 152.52
5-11-13-1                     34.24
5-13                          32.76
5-13 et seq.                  33.06
5-13-9-5.7                    32.70,
                              32.75
5-14-1.5                      30.17,
                              115.07
5-14-1.5-2(f)                 30.17
5-14-1.5-3.1                  30.17
5-14-1.5-4                    30.17
5-14-1.5-5                    30.17
5-14-1.5-6.1                  30.17
5-14-3-1                      10.15
5-22                          32.21
7.1-3-1 et seq.               111.20
8-1.5-3-3                     50.01
8-1.5-5 et. seq.              153.10
8-1.5-5-4(a)                  153.10
8-1.5-5-4(d)                  153.10
8-1.5-5-6                     153.10
9-22-1-11                     91.016
9-22-1-12                     91.018
9-22-1-13                     91.019
9-22-1-13(a)                  91.017
12-13-5                       115.01
12-15                         115.01
14-22-11-1                    90.01
14-28-1                       154.44
14-28-1-26                    154.44
15-5-12                       90.38
15-5-17-1                     90.39
Title 16                      111.05
                              111.04,
16-18-2-137                   115.01,
                              115.03
16-20                         53.091
16-20 et seq.                 53.091,
                              111.03
16-20-1-1 et seq.             91.070
16-20-1-10                    115.07
16-20-1-25(c)                 115.06
                              53.103,
16-20-1-26                    111.99,
                              115.04
16-20-1-27                    115.03
16-20-2-2                     53.090,
                              111.01
16-20-2-6                     53.090,
                              111.01
                              53.090,
16-20-2-16                    111.01,
                              115.01
16-20-8-5                     115.05
16-20-8-6                     115.05
16-41-13-1 et seq.            111.03
16-41-31                      115.01
16-42-5                       115.01
16-42-5-25                    111.05
22-9-1-4 et seq.              92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.              92.01
22-9.5-2-2                    92.02
22-9.5-2-3                    92.02
22-9.5-2-4                    92.02
22-9.5-2-8                    92.02
22-9.5-2-9                    92.02
22-9.5-2-11                   92.02
22-9.5-2-13                   92.02
22-9.5-3                      92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.              92.09
22-9.5-4-8                    92.10
22-9.5-5                      92.02
22-9.5-5-1                    92.03
22-9.5-6                      92.02,
                              92.10
22-10-6 et seq.               151.027
22-12                         151.059
22-12-1-4                     151.003
22-12-1-5                     151.003
22-12-1-7                     151.003
22-12-1-14                    151.003
22-12-1-16                    151.003
22-12-1-17                    151.003
22-12-1-18                    151.003
22-12-1-22(b)(12)             151.071
22-12-1-24                    151.003
22-12-1-26                    151.003
22-13                         151.059
22-13-2-3(b)                  151.070
22-13-2-5                     151.008
22-13-2-6                     151.006
22-13-2-7                     151.059
22-13-2-7(b)                  151.070
22-13-2-9                     151.006
22-13-2-11                    151.004
22-14                         151.059
22-15                         151.059
22-15-3                       151.021
22-15-4                       151.006
23-2-4                        115.01
27-2-15-1 et seq.             152.36
31-11-6-1                     30.18
32-25-2-9                     151.003
34-8-1 et seq.                53.101
34-31-4-1                     130.99
34-31-4-2                     130.99
35-44.1                       30.16
35-44.1-1-4                   34.24
35-47-1-5                     131.01
36-1-3-5                      30.15,
                              30.16
36-1-3-6                      30.15
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               10.99
36-1-5-4                      151.070,
                              151.071
36-1-6-4                      151.058
36-1-6-9                      151.059
36-1-7 et seq.                90.01,
                              90.64
36-1-21-5                     34.24
36-4-6-7                      30.17
36-4-6-9                      30.17
36-5-2-2                      30.16
36-5-2-7                      30.16
36-5-2-8                      30.17,
                              30.18
36-5-2-9                      30.17
36-5-2-9.2                    30.17
36-5-2-10                     114.53
36-5-3-3                      30.16
36-5-4-11                     30.16
36-5-4-12                     30.35
36-5-5-8                      34.08
36-5-6                        30.15
36-5-6-5.1                    30.15
36-5-6-7                      30.15
36-5-7-4(4)                   31.21
36-7-4                        31.05,
                              154.01
36-7-4-200 through 36-7-4-299 31.02
36-7-4-207                    30.16
36-7-4-208                    30.16
36-7-4-209                    30.16
36-7-4-210                    30.16
36-7-4-211                    30.16
36-7-4-212                    30.16
36-7-4-213                    30.16
36-7-4-214                    30.16
36-7-4-215                    30.16
36-7-4-216                    30.16
36-7-4-300 through 36-7-4-399 31.03
36-7-4-602                    30.17
36-7-4-902                    30.16
36-7-9-17                     152.38,
                              152.53
                              152.38,
36-7-9-18                     152.51,
                              152.53
                              152.38,
36-7-9-19                     152.51,
                              152.53
                              152.38,
36-7-9-20                     152.51,
                              152.53
                              152.38,
36-7-9-21                     152.51,
                              152.53
                              152.15,
36-7-9-22                     152.38,
                              152.53
36-7-9-27                     152.99
36-7-9-28                     152.99
36-7-11.9                     31.65
36-7-12                       31.65
36-7-12-3                     31.65
                              31.55,
36-7-14                       31.58,
                              31.59
36-8-3.2-3.5                  31.20
36-8-3.2-5                    31.20
36-8-3.2-6                    31.20
36-8-11-1 et seq.             31.35
36-8-17                       151.041
36-9-23-3                     50.01
36-9-23-6                     53.139
                              
 
REFERENCES TO 2005 CODE
2005 Code Section 2018 Code Section
2005 Code Section    2018 Code Section
10.01                10.01
10.02                10.02
10.03                10.03
10.04                10.04
10.05                10.05
10.06                10.06
10.07                10.07
10.08                10.08
10.09                10.09
10.10                10.10
10.11                10.11
10.12                10.12
10.13                10.13
10.14                10.14
10.15                10.15
10.16                10.16
10.99                10.99
30.01                30.01
30.02                30.02
30.30                30.35
30.31                30.36
30.32                30.37
31.01                31.01
31.02                31.02
31.03                31.03
31.04                31.04
31.05                31.05
31.15                31.20
31.16                31.21
31.17                31.22
32.01                32.01
32.02                32.02
32.03                32.03
32.15                32.20
32.16                32.21
32.17                32.22
32.30                32.35
32.31                32.36
32.32                32.37
32.33                32.38
32.34                32.39
33.03                33.01
33.04                33.02
33.05                33.03
33.15                33.20
33.17                33.21
34.01                34.01
34.02                34.02
34.03                34.03
34.04                34.04
34.05                34.05
34.06                34.06
34.15                34.20
34.17                34.22
50.01                50.02
50.15                50.20
50.16                50.21
50.99                50.99
51.01                51.01
51.02                51.02
51.03                51.03
51.04                51.04
51.05                51.05
51.06                51.06
51.07                51.07
51.20                51.20
51.21                51.20
51.22                51.22
51.23                51.23
51.35                51.35
51.36                51.36
51.99                51.99
52.01                52.01
52.02                52.02
52.24                52.07
52.99                52.99
53.001               53.001
53.002               53.002
53.015               53.015
53.016               53.016
53.017               53.017
53.018               53.018
53.030               53.030
53.031               53.031
53.032               53.032
53.033               53.033
53.034               53.034
53.035               53.035
53.036               53.036
53.037               53.037
53.038               53.038
53.039               53.039
53.050               53.050
53.051               53.051
53.052               53.052
53.053               53.053
53.054               53.054
53.055               53.055
53.056               53.056
53.057               53.057
53.058               53.058
53.059               53.059
53.060               53.060
53.061               53.061
53.062               53.062
53.075               53.075
53.076               53.076
53.090               53.090
53.091               53.091
53.092               53.092
53.093               53.093
53.094               53.094
53.095               53.095
53.096               53.096
53.097               53.097
53.098               53.098
53.099               53.099
53.100               53.100
53.101               53.101
53.102               53.102
53.103               53.103
53.104               53.104
53.120               53.120
53.121               53.121
53.122               53.122
53.124               53.124
53.125               53.125
53.126               53.126
53.127               53.127
53.128               53.128
53.129               53.129
53.130               53.130
53.131               53.131
53.132               53.132
53.133               53.133
53.134               53.134
53.135               53.135
53.136               53.136
53.150               53.150
53.999               53.999
70.01                70.01
70.02                70.01
70.99                70.99
71.01                71.01
71.02                71.02
71.03                71.03
71.04                71.04
71.05                71.05
71.99                71.99
Chapter 72, Schd. I  Chapter 72, Schd. I
Chapter 72, Schd. II Chapter 72, Schd. II
Chapter 73, Schd. I  Chapter 73, Schd. I
Chapter 73, Schd. II Chapter 73, Schd. I
91.15                91.015
91.16                91.016
91.17                91.017
91.18                91.018
91.19                91.019
91.30                91.030
91.31                91.031
91.32                91.032
91.33                91.033
91.34                91.034
91.35                91.035
91.36                91.036
91.50                91.050
91.51                91.051
91.52                91.052
91.53                91.053
91.54                91.054
91.55                91.055
91.56                91.056
91.57                91.057
91.58                91.058
91.99                91.999
92.01                92.01
92.02                92.02
92.03                92.03
92.04                92.04
92.05                92.05
92.06                92.06
92.07                92.07
92.08                92.08
92.09                92.09
92.10                92.10
92.99                92.99
93.01                93.01
93.02                93.02
93.03                93.03
93.04                93.04
93.15                93.15
93.16                93.16
93.17                93.17
93.18                93.18
93.99                93.99
94.01                94.01
94.02                94.02
94.03                94.03
94.04                94.04
94.15                94.15
94.16                94.16
94.99                94.99
111.01               111.01
111.02               111.02
111.03               111.03
111.04               111.04
111.05               111.05
111.06               111.06
111.07               111.07
111.20               111.20
111.99               111.99
112.01               112.01
112.02               112.02
112.15               112.15
112.16               112.16
112.99               112.99
113.01               113.01
113.02               113.02
113.03               113.03
113.04               113.06
130.01               130.01
130.02               130.02
130.15               130.15
130.99               130.99
131.01               131.01
131.15               131.15
131.16               131.16
131.17               131.17
131.18               131.18
131.99               131.99
150.01               150.01
150.02               150.02
150.03               150.03
152.01               152.01
152.02               152.02
152.03               152.03
152.15               152.15
152.16               152.16
152.17               152.17
152.18               152.18
152.19               152.19
152.20               152.20
152.30               152.35
152.31               152.36
152.32               152.37
152.33               152.38
152.45               152.50
152.46               152.51
152.47               152.52
152.48               152.53
152.49               152.54
152.50               152.55
152.99               152.99
155.01               155.01
155.02               155.02
155.03               155.03
155.04               155.04
155.05               155.05
155.06               155.06
155.99               155.99
                     
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
R-08-03  3-18-2008   51.20
R-18-02  1-30-2018   32.70 -
                     32.79
R-20-06  3-16-2020   150.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
G-66-01      7-13-1966   51.36
G-68-01      7-11-1968   91.036
G-79-03      3-12-1979   112.01,
                         112.99
G-79-01      11-12-1979  Chapter 72, Schd. II
G-79-04      6-11-1979   30.02
G-79-02      11-12-1979  70.01,
                         70.99
                         155.01 -
G-85-01      4-8-1985    155.06,
                         155.99 
G-85-05      - -         51.35,
                         51.99
G-89-01      7-10-1989   53.002,
                         53.999
                         131.15 -
G-90-3       5-14-1990   131.18,
                         131.99
1990-G-90-06 12-10-1990  33.02
                         53.120 -
                         53.122,
                         53.124 -
G-92-03      6-15-1992   53.127,
                         53.129 -
                         53.134,
                         53.150
                         53.001,
                         53.017,
                         53.030 -
                         53.039,
G-92-04      6-15-1992   53.050 -
                         53.062,
                         53.075 -
                         53.076,
                         53.999
G-92-05      6-15-1992   53.999
G-92-18      - -         32.02
G-93-02      7-27-1993   53.018
                         94.01 -
G-94-04      5-16-1994   94.04,
                         94.99
G-94-05      5-16-1994   Chapter 72, Schd. I
                         93.02 -
G-94-11      6-20-1994   93.04,
                         93.99
G-94-        7-11-1994   53.999
                         71.02 -
G-94-15      7-18-1994   71.03,
                         71.99
G-94-16      - -1994     31.01 -
                         31.05
G-94-18      9-19-1994   130.02,
                         130.99
G-94-19      9-19-1994   130.01,
                         130.99
G-94-20      11-7-1994   50.02,
                         50.99
G-94-25      11-21-1994  91.030 -
                         91.035
G-95-01      1-17-1995   71.01
G-95-2       6-13-1995   52.01
G-95-05      6-20-1995   32.03
G-95-09      10-2-1995   150.01
G-95-10      10-2-1995   150.03
G-95-11      10-2-1995   150.02
G-96-03      2-21-1996   71.05
G-96-04      2-21-1996   33.21
G-96-09      6-26-1996   34.04
G-96-16      12-17-1996  31.22
G-97-04      5-20-1997   34.03
98-04        2-17-1998   53.090 -
                         53.104
98-05        3-17-1998   33.20
G-98-06      3-17-1998   93.01
98-12        6-16-1998   32.20
G-98-13      6-16-1998   33.20
G-99-04      2-26-1999   111.20
G-99-06      6-22-1999   150.03
G-99-07      7-27-1999   50.21
G-99-10      9-28-1999   31.21
G-00-01      1-25-2000   30.35
G-00-02      4-18-2000   34.22
                         111.01 -
2000-G-00-14 11-28-2000  111.07,
                         111.99
G-00-15      11-28-2000  33.01
G-01-01      4-17-2001   32.01
G-01-03      8-29-2001   53.125,
                         53.135
G-03-04      3-18-2003   130.15,
                         130.99
G-03-08      4-15-2003   91.015 -
                         91.019
G-03-09      5-27-2003   150.03
G-03-10      5-27-2003   150.01
G-03-12      8-22-2003   34.06
G-03-31      11-1-2003   Chapter 72, Schd. I -
                         Schd. II
G-03-32      11-1-2003   131.01,
                         131.99
G-03-30      11-18-2003  50.21
G-04-08      3-18-2004   34.02
04-10        4-15-2004   91.032
G-04-11      5-3-2004    34.01
G-04-12      5-3-2004    30.36
                         94.15 -
G-04-14      5-20-2004   94.16,
                         94.99
2004-CR-16   6-24-2004   150.03
                         51.01 -
                         51.02,
                         51.07,
G-04-17      6-24-2004   51.20,
                         51.22 -
                         51.23,
                         51.99
G-04-19      6-24-2004   130.15
                         152.01 -
                         152.03,
                         152.15 -
                         152.20,
G-04-24      8-19-2004   152.35 -
                         152.38,
                         152.50 -
                         152.55,
                         152.99
G-04-25      7-15-2004   50.20
G-04-26      7-15-2004   53.135
G-04-29      9-16-2004   52.02
                         93.15 -
G-04-40      12-16-2004  93.18,
                         93.99
G-04-45      12-16-2004  53.136
G-04-47      12-16-2004  32.35 -
                         32.39
G-05-03      1-6-2005    33.03
G-05-06      - -2005     34.22
                         112.02,
G-05-18      7-21-2005   112.15 -
                         112.16
G-05-20      7-21-2005   94.03
G-05-29      10-20-2005  150.03
G-05-32      10-20-2005  32.05
G-05-34      11-17-2005  150.05
G-05-35      12-15-2005  150.03
G-06-07      1-17-2006   31.35 -
                         31.43 
G-06-01      1-19-2006   150.03
G-06-02      1-19-2006   71.04,
                         71.99
G-06-06      1-19-2006   30.37
G-06-08      2-16-2006   71.99,
                         Chapter 72, Schd. III
G-06-10      4-20-2006   52.99
G-06-11      4-20-2006   71.99,
                         Chapter 73, Schd. I
G-06-12      4-20-2006   34.05
G-06-13      4-20-2006   91.037,
                         91.999
G-06-14      4-20-2006   150.03
G-06-15      4-20-2006   150.03
G-06-16      4-20-2006   34.23
G-06-21      5-30-2006   50.01
G-06-31      10-12-2006  31.20
                         151.001 -
                         151.004,
                         151.006 -
                         151.008,
                         151.020 -
                         151.026,
G-06-34      11-16-2006  151.040 -
                         151.044,
                         151.055 -
                         151.059,
                         151.070 -
                         151.071,
                         151.999
                         156.01 -
                         156.05,
G-06-35      11-16-2006  156.35 -
                         156.41,
                         156.99
G-06-37      - -         33.04
G-06-39      12-21-2006  34.07
G-07-04      2-15-2007   150.03
G-07-05      2-15-2007   150.03
G-07-09      3-15-2007   150.03
G-07-11      3-15-2007   54.02
G-07-12      4-19-2007   34.07
G-07-13      4-19-2007   53.016
G-07-20      6-21-2007   33.04
G-07-21      7-19-2007   50.03
G-07-27      9-20-2007   53.015
G-07-29      9-20-2007   51.20
G-08-05      1-28-2008   50.01
G-08-10A     3-18-2008   51.03 -
                         51.06
G-08-13      4-12-2008   32.04
                         113.01 -
                         113.02,
G-08-11      4-15-2008   113.04,
                         113.06,
                         113.99
2008-G-0814  5-20-2008   115.01 -
                         115.09
G-08-26      11-18-2008  54.03
                         30.15 -
G-09-01      1-6-2009    30.18,
                         30.20
G-09-03      4-13-2009   32.50 -
                         32.60
G-09-04      5-11-2009   91.070
G-09-07      6-29-2009   32.06
G-09-08      8-10-2009   54.01
                         91.050 -
                         91.052,
G-09-09      8-10-2009   91.054,
                         91.056 -
                         91.058
                         114.01 -
                         114.07,
                         114.20 -
G-10-05      4-12-2010   114.29,
                         114.40 -
                         114.53,
                         114.99
G-10-06      4-12-2010   151.027
G-10-14      9-13-2010   32.21 -
                         32.22
G-10-16      10-18-2010  52.03
G-10-17      10-18-2010  53.137
G-10-18      11-8-2010   151.005
G-11-01      3-14-2011   115.06
G-11-02      - -         150.05
G-11-16      10-10-2011  150.04
G-12-01      1-17-2012   153.10
                         150.03,
                         153.01 -
                         153.09,
G-12-02      1-17-2012   153.25 -
                         153.42,
                         153.55 -
                         153.66,
                         153.99
G-12-10      7-16-2012   113.03,
                         113.05
G-12-11      7-16-2012   91.055
G-13-02      2-19-2013   34.24
G-13-06      6-17-2013   52.08
G-13-07      7-15-2013   91.053
G-13-08      7-15-2013   33.22
G-13-10      7-15-2013   50.01
G-13-11      7-15-2013   153.11
G-13-13      11-18-2013  50.04
G-14-02      4-21-2014   30.01
G-15-04      4-20-2015   52.05
G-15-05      4-20-2015   52.07
G-15-08      5-18-2015   52.04
G-15-17      8-6-2015    52.04
G-15-18      8-6-2015    30.37
                         92.01 -
G-15-19      10-5-2015   92.11,
                         92.99
G-15-20      10-5-2015   34.25
G-16-04      3-21-2016   53.138
                         91.001 -
G-16-06      4-18-2016   91.004,
                         91.999
G-16-07      7-18-2016   33.05
                         154.01 -
                         154.14,
                         154.25 -
                         154.27,
G-16-08      8-15-2016   154.40 -
                         154.47,
                         154.60 -
                         154.66,
                         154.99
G-16-12      11-21-2016  50.05
G-17-3       10-16-2017  33.06
G-17-05      11-20-2017  31.55 -
                         31.59
G-18-02      1-30-2018   32.07
G-18-04      2-20-2018   53.128
G-18-06      4-16-2018   53.129
G-18-11      12-17-2018  53.139
G-18-14      12-20-2018  30.03
G-18-15      12-17-2018  Adopting Ordinance
G-20-01      1-21-2020   156.02,
                         156.03
G-20-03      7-28-2020   32.08
                         90.01 -
                         90.18,
                         90.25 -
                         90.27,
                         90.35 -
G-20-04      7-28-2020   90.40,
                         90.50,
                         90.51,
                         90.60 -
                         90.67,
                         90.75,
                         90.99
G-20-06      11-24-2020  53.128
G-21-03      5-17-2021   53.128
G-21-04      5-17-2021   153.12
G-21-06      7-19-2021   130.15
G-21-07      8-16-2021   33.07
G-21-08      8-16-2021   33.08
G-21-09      9-20-2021   71.06
G-21-13      12-20-2021  33.08
G-23-02      4-17-2023   34.08
G-23-03      5-15-2023   33.07
G-23-05      7-17-2023   51.21
G-23-06      7-17-2023   33.09
G-23-07      7-17-2023   33.10
                         116.01 -
G-23-08      8-21-2023   116.14,
                         116.99
G-23-11      11-20-2023  34.26
G-23-12      11-29-2023  31.65 -
                         31.67
G-24-01      1-22-2024   34.20
                        
 
