GREENE COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2020-02, passed 9-15-2020
State Statutes current through 2021 ALS #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Greene County Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGENCY. When used to designate a subordinate element of government, all
offices, departments, institutions, boards, commissions and corporations of the
county government and, when so specified, all offices, departments,
institutions, boards, commissions and corporations which receive or disburse
county funds.
      BOARD. Whenever the words BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS, THIS BOARD or THE BOARD
are used, the words shall be construed to mean the governing body of the County
of Greene, Indiana.
      BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Board established pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-
900 which has the authority to hear and determine appeals regarding orders,
requirements, decisions or determinations in relation to a zoning ordinance and
which has the authority to approve or deny all special exceptions, special
uses, contingent uses and conditional uses.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the Circuit Court.
      CODE. Local government code of the County of Greene, Indiana, which is
designated as “The Greene County Code” or “this code”.
      COMMISSION. The Plan Commission.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. When a statute requires that a notice be given, or
any other act be done, no later than a certain period of time before the filing
of any motion or the commencement of any proceeding, the computation of the
period shall not include the day for the filing of the motion or for the
commencement of the proceeding, but may include the day on which the notice is
given, or on which the act is done. When a statute requires that a notice be
given, or any other act be done, within a certain period of time after the
occurrence of any event or after the commencement of any proceeding, the
computation of the period shall not include the day on which the event occurred
or on which any proceeding commenced, but shall include the day on which the
notice is to be given, or on which the act is to be done.
      COUNCIL. The Council of Greene County, Indiana.
      COUNTY. Greene County, Indiana.
      COUNTY EXECUTIVE. The Board of Commissioners of Greene County.
      DESIGNEE. Following an official of the county, the authorized agent,
employee or representative of the official.
      ET SEQ. Latin phrase meaning “and the following”.
      GENDER. Words used in the masculine and shall include feminine and
neuter.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      I.A.C. Rules and regulations found in the Indiana Administration Code.
      I.C. State law found in the Indiana Code.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive and discretionary.
      MONTH. A calendar month unless otherwise expressed.
      MUST. The word is mandatory.
      NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may, where the context
requires, extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one
person or thing; a word importing the plural number only may, where the context
requires, extend and be applied to one person or thing, as well as to several
persons or things.
      OATH. Any form of attestation, affirmation or declaration by which a
person signifies that he or she is bound to perform an act or to speak
faithfully and truthfully and, in those cases, the words “swear” and “sworn”
shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed”.
      ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS. The ordinances and resolutions of the County
of Greene and all amendments, including this code and its supplements.
      OWNER. As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every kind of property, except real property.
      PLAN COMMISSION. The Commission established to carry out the duties of
I.C. 36-7-1-14.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Property not owned by a public entity.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
      QUORUM. A majority of the members of a board, commission, committee or
council holding office, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
      REAL PROPERTY. Land, tenements and hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where any provision shall require any act
to be done in a  reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given to any
person, the REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time only as
may be necessary in the prompt execution of the duty, or compliance with the
notice.
      REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail with return receipt requested.
      SHALL. The word is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE AND SUBSCRIPTION. The name of a person, mark or symbol appended
by him or her to a writing with intent to authenticate the instrument as one
made or put into effect by him or her.
      STATE, THE STATE and THIS STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STATE LAW REFERENCES. The Indiana Code (I.C.) and any subsequent
amendments.
      STREET. Includes all roads, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
squares, boulevards, viaducts or other public ways in the county which have
been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use for vehicular
traffic.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by planning and development
laws of the state, including a fee interest, a life estate, a future interest,
a present possessory interest or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, include any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of the
building or land, either alone or with others.
      TIME. Includes words used in the past or present tense and includes the
future as well as the past and present.
      TREASURER. The Treasurer of Greene County.
      WILL. A mandatory direction.
      WORDS AND PHRASES. According to the common and approved usage of the
language, but technical words and phrases and others that have acquired a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood
according to the meaning.
      WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Any representation of words, letters or figures
whether by printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
section are severable as provided in division (B) does not affect the operation
of division (B) with respect to that section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the county exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Board
of Commissioners refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department,
officer, agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that
ordinance or subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities
placed with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the
named board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its
effective date or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to
which the duties, liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, to the
prosecution of offenses or for the recovery of penalties  and forfeitures
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this code shall be
guilty of an ordinance violation.
   (B)   Each day a violation of this code is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed by statute
or a specific section of this code, any person convicted of an ordinance
violation shall be punished by a fine of not more than $7,500 for each
independent offense or violation.
Statutory reference:
   Class C infractions, see I.C. 34-28-5-1 et seq., 34-28-5-4
   Infraction and ordinance violation enforcement proceedings, see I.C. 34-28-
5-1 et seq.
   Injunctions, see I.C. 36-1-6-4
   Maximum ordinance violation amounts, see I.C. 36-1-3-8
   Ordinance violations affecting real property and the county taking expenses
of compliance as a lien against the property, see I.C. 36-1-6-2
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS AND EMPLOYEES
         
31.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
32.   FEES AND FUNDS
         
33.   COUNTY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Personnel Regulations
   
30.01   Standard Personnel Policies Handbook
   
30.02   Sheriff’s Department Personnel Policies Handbook
   
30.03   Emergency Medical Services Personnel Policies Handbook
   
30.04   Prosecutor’s Office Personnel Policy Handbook
   
30.05   Community Corrections Personnel Policy Handbook
   
30.06   Circuit and Supreme Courts and Court Service Personnel Policy Handbook
   
30.07   Blanket bonds or crime insurance coverage
   
30.08   Conflict of interest policy
Departments and Offices
   
30.15   Advisory Plan Commission
   
30.16   Department of Economic Development
   
30.17   Department of Redevelopment; Commission
   
30.18   Emergency Medical Service
   
30.19   Public Defender’s Office
   
30.20   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
30.21   Sheriff’s Merit Board
   
30.22   Auxiliary Police Force
   
30.23   Redevelopment Authority
   
30.24   Community Event Center Management Board
   
30.25   Visitor and Tourist Commission
PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
§ 30.01  STANDARD PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK.
   The county’s Standard Personnel Policies Handbook is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2010-13, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 2012-03,
passed 6-4-2012; Council Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 2012-09, passed
12-10-2012; Council Ord. 2013-05, passed 9-30-2013; Ord. 2013-07, passed 8-6-
2013; Council Ord. 2015-02, passed 9-28-2015; Ord. 2015-04, passed 10-6-2015;
Council Ord. 2016-03, passed 12-12-2016; Ord. 2016-07, passed 1-20-2016)
§ 30.02  SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK.
   The Sheriff’s Department Personnel Policies Handbook is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2010-14, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 2012-03,
passed 6-4-2012; Council Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 2012-09, passed
12-10-2012)
§ 30.03  EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK.
   The county’s Standard Personnel Policies Handbook is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 2012-03,
passed 6-4-2012; Council Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 2012-09, passed
12-10-2012)
§ 30.04  PROSECUTOR’S OFFICE PERSONNEL POLICY HANDBOOK.
   The county’s Prosecutor’s Office Personnel Policy Handbook is hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Council Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 2012-09, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 30.05  COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS PERSONNEL POLICY HANDBOOK.
   The county’s Community Corrections Personnel Policy Handbook is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Council Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 2012-09, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 30.06  CIRCUIT AND SUPREME COURTS AND COURT SERVICE PERSONNEL POLICY
HANDBOOK.
   The county’s Circuit and Supreme Courts and Court Services Personnel Policy
Handbook is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out
in full.
(Council Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 2012-09, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 30.07  BLANKET BONDS OR CRIME INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   (A)   The county, acting by and through its County Auditor, is authorized to
purchase, as needed, a blanket bond or crime insurance policy endorsed to
include faithful performance to cover the faithful  performance of all county
employees, Commission members and other persons acting on behalf of the county,
including the officers, employees and contractors described under I.C. 5-4-l-18
(a).
   (B)   The minimum bond amount for public officials set forth under I.C. 5-4-
1-18(d)(1), (2), including that for county treasurers, circuit court clerks,
county sheriffs and Barrett Law fund custodians, as well as those employees
directed to file an individual bond by the fiscal body, is fixed as follows:
      (1)   The amount must equal $30,000 for each $1,000,000 of receipts of
the officers office during the complete fiscal year before die purchase of the
bond, subject to division (B)(2).
      (2)   The amount may not be less than $30,000 nor more than $300,000
unless the County Council approves a greater amount for the officer or
employee.
   (C)   The minimum bond amount for public officials set forth under I.C. 5-4-
1-18(d) for county auditors is fixed at not less than $30,000.
   (D)   The minimum bond amount for public officials set forth under I.C. 5-4-
1-18(e)(1), including that for county recorders, county surveyors, county
coroners and county assessors is fixed at not less than $15,000.
   (E)   The minimum bond amount set forth under I.C. 5-4-1-18(a)(7), (e)(2),
for employees or contractors of the county whose official duties include
receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or otiierwise having access to
funds that belong to the county is fixed at not less than $5,000.
   (F)   The State Board of Accounts may fix the amount of the bond for a
county treasurer, county sheriff, circuit court clerk or Barrett Law fund
custodian at an amount that exceeds $30,000 for each $1,000,000 of receipts of-
the officer's office during the last complete fiscal year before the purchase
of the bond.
(Council Ord. 2015-05, passed 11-30-2015)
§ 30.08  CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   The Greene County Conflict of Interest Policy is hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated by reference as if set out in full herein.
(Res. 2016-18, passed 12-20-2016)
DEPARTMENTS AND OFFICES
§ 30.15  ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment of the Greene County Advisory Plan Commission. The Board
of Commissioners hereby establishes the County Advisory Plan Commission (“Plan
Commission”).
   (B)   Members. The Plan Commission shall consist of nine members, who shall
be appointed as follows:
      (1)   One member appointed by the Board of Commissioners from its
membership;
      (2)   One member appointed by the County Council from its membership:
      (3)   The Greene County Surveyor or his or her designee;
      (4)   The Greene County Agricultural Extension Educator; and
      (5)   Five citizen members appointed by the Board of Commissioners, of
whom not more than three may be of the same political party.
   (C)   Qualifications of citizen members.
      (1)   Citizen members must be either:
         (a)   Residents of an unincorporated area of the county; or
         (b)   Residents of the county who also own real property located in
whole or in part in an unincorporated area of the county.
      (2)   Each citizen member shall be appointed because of the member’s
knowledge and experience in community affairs, the member’s awareness of the
social, economic, agricultural and industrial problems of the area, and the
member’s interest in the development and integration of the area. A citizen
member may not hold other elective or appointive office in municipal, county or
state government.
   (D)   Term.
      (1)   The term of office of a member who is appointed from the membership
of the Board of Commissioners or the County Council is coextensive with the
member’s term of office, unless the Board of Council appoints another member to
serve as its representative at its first regular meeting in any year.
      (2)   The citizen members shall initially be appointed for the following
terms of office: one member for a term of one year; one member for a term of
two years; one member for a term of three years; and two members for a term of
four years. Each member’s term expires on the first Monday of January of the
first, second, third or fourth year, respectively, after the year of the
member’s appointment. When an initial term of office of a citizen member
expires, each new appointment of a citizen member is for a term of four years.
A citizen member serves until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
A citizen member is eligible for reappointment.
   (E)   Vacancies. If a vacancy occurs among the Plan Commission members who
are appointed, then the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the
unexpired term of the vacating member.
   (F)   Statutory provisions incorporated by reference. The provisions of I.C.
36-7-4 governing the powers, duties and procedures of county advisory plan
commissions, and as may be amended from time to time, are herein incorporated
by reference.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 3-16-2009)
§ 30.16  DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The County Council hereby finds it necessary to finance economic
development or pollution control facilities under I.C. 36-7-11.9 et seq. and
36-7-12 et seq.
   (B)   The County Council hereby establishes a department of economic
development, to be controlled by a commission known as “Greene County Economic
Development Commission” (the “Commission”).
   (C)   After the adoption of this section, the Auditor of the county (the
“county”) is hereby authorized and directed to promptly notify the County
Commissioners and the fiscal body of the most populous municipality located in
the county in order to obtain nominations from the bodies to the Commission.
   (D)   Any officer of the county is hereby authorized and directed, for and
on behalf of the county, to execute and deliver any instrument or take any
other action as the officer determines to be necessary or desirable to
accomplish the purposes of this section, including the nomination by the County
Council of a person to serve upon the Commission, and the forwarding of the
nomination to the Board of Commissioners, the determination to be conclusively
evidenced by the officer’s having executed the instrument or having taken the
action, and any officer’s having executed and delivered any instrument or
having taken any action is hereby ratified and approved.
   (E)   This section shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
(Council Ord. 2009-1, passed 3-30-2009)
§ 30.17  DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT; COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-3, the Board of Commissioners hereby
establishes the County Department of Redevelopment (the “Department”), for the
purposes and to exercise the powers set forth in the Act or otherwise granted
by law. The Department will be controlled by a board of five members, to be
known as the County Redevelopment Commission (the “Redevelopment Commission”),
each of whom shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect as of 1-9-2001.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 30.18  EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Emergency Medical Service. There is hereby re-established the County
Emergency Medical Service (“the Service”).
   (B)   Emergency Medical Service Board. There is hereby created the County
Emergency Medical Service Board (“the Board”). The Board shall consist of five
members to be appointed as follows: one individual appointed by the Board of
Commissioners from its membership; one individual appointed by the County
Council from its membership; the County Sheriff or his or her delegate; one
individual appointed by the County Hospital Board; and one county resident
appointed by the Board of Commissioners. In addition, the Medical Director and
the Emergency Medical Services Director shall serve as ex-officio members of
the Board.
   (C)   Terms. The term for members who are elected officials shall extend
from the period of appointment until the end of the term of office, unless
replaced sooner by the appointing authority. The citizen member and member
appointed by the Hospital Board shall be appointed annually.
   (D)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall receive no compensation for
their services as members.
   (E)   Meetings. The Board shall meet quarterly, with the specific dates,
times and places to be established by the Board each year at its first meeting
of the calendar year.
   (F)   Duties and powers of the Board. The Board shall be vested with the
following duties and powers:
      (1)   The review and approval of the budget to be submitted annually the
County Council, including salary recommendations, equipment purchases and other
expenses related to the operation of the Service;
      (2)   The purchase and maintenance of vehicles and equipment for the
operation of the Service, upon the approval and consent of the Board of
Commissioners and the appropriations by the County Council;
      (3)   The establishment of classification of ranks, grade and positions
for personnel of the Service; and the establishment of reasonable standards of
qualifications for Service personnel, and the fixing of prerequisites of
training, education, experience and other job qualifications, with approval of
the County Council;
      (4)   The establishment of a schedule of fees to be charged by the
Service for the provision of emergency medical services to the residents of the
county, with the approval of the Board of Commissioners;
      (5)   The appointment and supervision of an Emergency Medical Services
Director;
      (6)   The approval and adoption of policies and procedures related to the
operation of the Service;
      (7)   Administrative review of any appeals of disciplinary or firing
decisions made by the Director; and
      (8)   All other duties and powers necessary and proper for the provision
of emergency medical services to the citizens of the county.
   (G)   Duties of Director. The Director shall be the chief administrator of
the Service and have overall responsibility for the overall daily operation of
the Service. The Director shall answer directly to the Board. The Director’s
specific responsibilities shall include the preparation of a budget for
submission to the Board, the maintenance of records of account relative to the
revenue and expenditures and the Service; the scheduling of employees;
administration of payroll; the evaluation of job performance of Service
personnel; the overall direct supervision of all employees of the Service,
including, hiring, disciplinary and firing decisions with respect to Service
personnel; the development and recommendation to the Board of standard policies
and procedures for the operation of the Service; the administration of funds
received by the Service; and all other ordinary and necessary responsibilities
related to the operation of the Service. The Director shall have other
responsibilities as may be determined, from time to time, to be necessary and
proper by the Board.
   (H)   Effective date. This section shall be effective immediately upon its
adoption.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 30.19  PUBLIC DEFENDER’S OFFICE.
   (A)   Office established. The County Public Defender’s Office is hereby
established. The County Public Defender Board shall administer and supervise
the Office of the County Public Defender’s Office and further shall have the
powers and duties previously established by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Authority to approve or disapprove claims. The Public Defender or
Chief Deputy Public Defender in the absence of the Public Defender shall be
authorized to approve or disapprove claims that are submitted to the County
Council for payment under the budget for the County Public Defender’s Office.
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect upon
passage, approval and publication.
(Ord. 2004-04, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 30.20  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Membership. The Board shall be composed of four members and a member
of the County Board of Education and a member of the County Extension Committee
ex officio. The County Circuit Court Judge shall select the regular members on
the basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation, but not
more than two members shall be of the same political party. The ex-officio
members shall be selected by their board committee as the case may be and shall
serve for a one-year term; however, they may be reappointed.
   (B)   Terms of the members. Upon the establishment of a Board, the terms of
the members initially appointed shall be one, two, three and four years.
Thereafter, as a term expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year
term. All terms shall expire on the first Monday of January, but an appointee
shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
   (C)   Elections. At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall
elect a President and a Vice-President. The Vice-President shall have authority
to act as the president of the Board during the absence or disability of the
President.
   (D)   General power. The Board shall have the general power to perform all
acts necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities to conduct programs
as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions, including
powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-10-3-10 and 36-10-3-11.
   (E)   Advisory Council. The Board may create an advisory council and special
committees composed of citizens interested in the problem of parks and
recreation in accordance with I.C. 36-10-3-17.
   (F)   Annual budget. The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in
the same manner as other departments of county government. The Board may accept
gifts, donations and subsidies for park and recreation purposes including land
by gift or leasehold.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 30.21  SHERIFF’S MERIT BOARD.
   A Sheriffs’ Merit Board shall be adopted under the provisions of I.C. 17-3-
14 as the same became effective with the passage of Senate Enrolled Act 223
effective 4-1-1971.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 30.22  AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE.
   The “Greene County Auxiliary Police” shall be called and further known as
the “Greene County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit”.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 30.23  REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14.5-7, the County Redevelopment Authority (the
“Redevelopment Authority”), is hereby created as a separate body corporate and
politic and as an instrumentality of the county, for the purposes and to
exercise the powers set forth in the Act or otherwise granted by law. The
Redevelopment Authority shall be governed by a board of directors consisting of
three members, each of whom shall be appointed by the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 4-16-2013)
§ 30.24  COMMUNITY EVENT CENTER MANAGEMENT BOARD.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the Greene County Community Event
Center Management Board ("the Board"). The Board shall consist of five members,
all of whom shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Member qualifications. All members shall be residents and taxpayers of
Greene County, Indiana.
   (C)   Terms. The initial appointment terms shall be as follows: two members
shall serve from the date of appointment until January 31, 2016; one member
shall serve from the date of appointment until January 31, 2017; one member
shall serve from the date of appointment until January 31, 2018; and one member
shall serve from the date of appointment until January 31, 2019. Thereafter the
appointment term for all members shall be four years; provided, however, the
Board of Commissioners reserves the right to terminate any member's appointment
prior to the end of the member's term of office.
   (D)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall receive no compensation for
their services as members.
   (E)   Meetings. The Board shall meet no less frequently than quarterly, with
the specific dates, times and places to be established by the Board at its
organizational meeting and thereafter each year at its first meeting of the
calendar year.
   (F)   Duties and powers of the Board. The Board shall be vested with the
following duties and powers:
      (1)   The establishment and approval a budget to be submitted annually to
the Board of Commissioners, including salary recommendations, equipment
purchases, repairs, and other expenses related to the operation and maintenance
of the facility;
      (2)   The development of short-term and long range plans for the
provision of private and public financial support of the facility, including
the authority to enter into agreements with and make requests to the Greene
County Foundation with respect to the Foundation's Endowment Fund for the
maintenance of the facility;
      (3)   The management of the facility, including the authority to enter
into leases and rental agreements and contracts for the maintenance and repair
of the facility;
      (4)   The establishment of a schedule of fees to be charged for the use
of the facility;
      (5)   The approval and adoption of policies and procedures, including
rules and regulations related to the use and operation of the facility;
      (6)   The hiring and supervision of employees, upon the authorization and
approval of the Board of Commissioners;
      (7)   The maintenance of a full and complete accounting of all revenues
received and all expenditures made in connection with the facility, consistent
with general accounting principles as set forth by the Indiana State Board of
Accounts;
      (8)   The maintenance of all public records a of the Board and the
conduct all meetings consistent with the Access to Public Records Law and the
Indiana Open Door Law (I.C. 5-14-1.5); and
      (9)   The performance of all other duties and the exercise all powers
that may be delegated by the Board of Commissioners to the Board in connection
with the efficient operation and maintenance of the facility.
   (G)   Establishment of Community Event Center Fund. The Board of
Commissioners hereby establishes a fund that shall be known as the Community
Event Center Fund.
   (H)   Revenue and expenditures. All fees, rents, and other revenues received
by the Board shall be deposited into the Community Event Center Fund. No
revenues deposited into the Community Event Center Fund shall be expended
except for capital improvements and costs related to and the operation and
maintenance of the facility.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 30.25  VISITOR AND TOURIST COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. The Commissioners establish the Greene County
Convention, Visitor and Tourist Commission ("Commission").
   (B)   Purpose. The principal purpose of the Commission is to promote the
development and growth of the convention, visitor and tourism industry in the
county.
   (C)   The Commission shall be established and maintained according to the
following:
      (1)   Membership. The Commission shall consist of five members. Each
member must reside in Greene County. No more than a simple majority of the
members may be affiliated with the same political party.
      (2)   Composition. A simple majority of the members must be either
engaged in a convention, visitor or tourist business; or involved in promoting
conventions, visitors and tourism. If available and willing to serve, no fewer
than two of the members must be engaged in the business of renting or
furnishing rooms, lodging or accommodations for periods of less than 30 days.
Not more than one  member may be affiliated with the same business entity.
      (3)   Selection and term.
         (a)   The Commissioners shall appoint two members from different
political parties. One of the members appointed shall be engaged in the
business of renting or furnishing rooms, lodging or accommodations for periods
of less than 30 days. The term of the Commissioners' appointments shall be a
term of three years.
         (b)   The Council shall appoint two members from different political
parties. One of the members appointed shall be engaged in the business of
renting or furnishing rooms, lodging or accommodations for periods of less than
30 days. The term of the Council's appointments shall be a term of four years.
         (c)   The Mayor of the City of Linton, as the mayor of the largest
city in the county, shall appoint one member, without regard to political
party. The Mayor is encouraged to appoint a member engaged in the business of
renting or furnishing rooms, lodging or accommodations for periods of less than
30 days. The term of the Mayor's appointment shall be a term of two years.
         (d)   Terms of office shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31,
beginning January 1, 2018.
         (e)   A member whose term expires may be reappointed to serve
subsequent terms.
         (f)   If a vacancy occurs, the originating officer or authority shall
appoint a qualified person to serve the remainder of the term.
      (4)   Meetings. The Commission shall meet at least annually and shall
determine whether more frequent meetings shall be required. A majority of the
Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the
concurrence of a majority of those present shall be necessary to authorize any
action. Either Council or Commissioners may require the Commission to convene.
      (5)   Removal. A Commission member may be removed for cause by his or her
appointing officer or authority.
      (6)   No compensation; reimbursement. Commission members shall not
receive a salary. Commission members shall receive reimbursement for necessary
and reasonable expenses incurred in performance of their duties.
      (7)   Budget and expenses. The Commission annually shall prepare a
budget, taking into consideration the recommendations made by [..text missing]
   (D)   Powers of the Commission; expenditures. The Commission may exercise
the following powers, which powers may include but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Receive and receipt for gifts, grants and contributions from any
public or private source, under such terms and conditions as the Commission
deems necessary and desirable, and to make use of the same in the pursuit of
its purpose;
      (2)   Sue and be sued;
      (3)   Enter into contracts and agreements;
      (4)   Use any resources made available to it to promote tourism in the
county;
      (5)   Make rules and regulations necessary and appropriate for the
orderly conduct of its business and accomplishment of its purpose;
      (6)   Receive and approve, alter, or reject requests and proposals for
funding by corporations qualified under division (D)(7) of this section;
      (7)   After approving a proposal, transfer money, quarterly or less
frequently, from the fund, or from money transferred from the fund to the
Commission's Treasurer, to any Indiana not-for-profit Corporation for the
purpose of promoting and encouraging tourism in the county;
      (8)   Require financial or other reports from any corporation that
receives funds under division (D)(7) of this section. Any not-for-profit
corporation that receives funds hereunder shall make a financial or other
report to the Commission upon written request.
      (9)   All expenses of the Commission shall be paid from the fund or from
money transferred from the fund to the Commission's Treasurer. The Commission
shall annually prepare a budget, taking into consideration the recommendations
made by a corporation qualified under division (D)(7) of this section and
submit it to the county fiscal body for review and approval. An expenditure may
not be made unless it is in accordance with an appropriation made by the county
fiscal body in the manner provided by law.
   (E)   Unauthorized use of funds; offense.
      (1)   A member of the Commission who knowingly:
         (a)   Approves the transfer of money to any person or corporation not
qualified under law for that transfer; or
         (b)   Approves a transfer for a purpose not permitted under law;
commits a Level 6 felony.
      (2)   A person who receives a transfer of money under I.C. 6-9-18 and
knowingly uses that money for any purpose not permitted under I.C. 6-9-18
commits a Level 6 felony.
   (F)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Facilities obligated to collect the tax shall submit to the County
Treasurer (Treasurer) a monthly report, on the form prescribed by the
Treasurer, along with payment of any tax collected, by the 20th calendar day of
the month following the month of collection. For instance, a tax monthly report
and tax remittance shall be submitted by February 20 for activity in January.
      (2)   A monthly report shall be considered timely submitted if the
envelope used to mail the report, and any payment, via first class US mail is
postmarked on or before the 20th day of the month. The Treasurer shall also
accept monthly reports and any payments at the Treasurer's Office.
      (3)   Facilities shall submit a monthly report even if no tax was
collected in the previous calendar month.
      (4)   If the 20th day of the month falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the Innkeepers’ Tax monthly report shall be submitted by the next
following business day.
      (5)   Monthly reports submitted after the due date must include a penalty
calculated at 10% of the tax paid or to be paid, without prorating for the
number of days that the monthly report is overdue.
      (6)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-9-29-3, providing that the Treasurer has the
same rights and powers with respect to collecting the tax as does the
Department of State Revenue, the Treasurer is authorized to conduct audits and
investigations of taxpayers concerning collection and payment of the tax.
Specifically, but not exclusively, the Treasurer may examine the books,
records, papers, or other data bearing on the correctness of tax reports,
including those pertinent records of third parties handling funds for the
credit of, or acting as an agent for, any lodging facility subject to the tax.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-8.1-3-12(h), the Treasurer has concurrent
jurisdiction with the Indiana Department of Revenue to investigate and audit
tax reports; further, pursuant to I.C. 6-8.1-3-12(h)(3), at the discretion of
the Treasurer, the cost of the audit of the tax may be charged or assessed
against the lodging facility audited.
      (8)   After completion of the audit, the results of the audit will be
provided to the lodging facility by the audit firm or Treasurer.
      (9)   Upon receipt of the audit results, the Treasurer shall either:
         (a)   Remit to the lodging facility the amount of the tax overpaid; or
         (b)   Send a statement to the lodging facility for the amount of the
tax due, requesting payment within 30 business days of the date of the
statement.
      (10)   The Treasurer may retain accountants or investigators for purposes
of conducting audits of lodging facilities subject to the tax; the Treasurer
may retain legal counsel for purposes of bringing enforcement actions for
collection of the tax and costs of collection.
      (11)   Facilities obligated to collect the tax shall be entitled to
retain a collection allowance equaling 1.0% deduction from gross tax collected.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-5-2017)
CHAPTER 31:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
31.01   Definitions
   
31.02   General scope and intent
   
31.03   County Emergency Management Advisory Council
   
31.04   Department of Emergency Management
   
31.05   County Emergency Management Director
   
31.06   Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
   
31.07   Administrative powers and duties of the Board of Commissioners
   
31.08   County emergency powers, regulations and procedures
   
31.09   Limitation of liability
   
31.10   Compensation for property commandeered or used during disaster
emergency
 
   
31.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Local disaster emergency declaration, §
33.09
§ 31.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL.  The County Emergency Management Advisory Council as
established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   BOARD.  The Board of County Commissioners, as elected pursuant to I.C. 36-2-
2.
   CHAIRPERSON.  The Chairperson of the County Emergency Management Advisory
Council as established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DIRECTOR.  The Director of Emergency Management (formally referred to as
Director) as established and appointed pursuant to this chapter in accordance
with I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DEPARTMENT.  The County Department of Emergency Management as established
under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-1-10.
   DISASTER.  Occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or manmade cause,
including but not limited to fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action,
oil spill, other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger
or damage, air contamination, drought, explosion, riot, or hostile military or
paramilitary action. The term shall include events or conditions as set forth
in I.C. 10-14-3-1.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.  The preparation for and the coordination of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces or other
federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair
injury and damage resulting from disasters. These functions include, without
limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, radiological,
chemical and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken
areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related
to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or
incidental to the preparation for and coordination of the foregoing functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER.  Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management, being first duly rostered,
identified and appointed by the Director, including persons and private
agencies or governmental units offering services to the county during emergency
situations or mutual aid to other emergency services who request assistance.
   IDHS.  The State Emergency Management Agency established under I.C. 10-8-2-
1.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.  Any county department or agency designated
in the emergency operations plan to participate in emergency management
activities; and any department or agency of the state, another county, a
municipal corporation, or a volunteer organization designated to participate in
the county’s emergency management programs and activities pursuant to a
cooperative or mutual aid agreement entered into pursuant to state statute.
   PERSONNEL.  County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN or EMERGENCY PLAN.  The current local Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan whose preparation and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER.  As referred to in I.C. 10-14-3-29(a), for
purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred to
hereinafter, means the Board of Commissioners established under I.C. 36-2-2. If
a quorum of the Board of Commissioners (two of the three Commissioners) is
unavailable or is incapacitated, then the following establishes the line of
succession for Principal Executive Officer:
      (1)   First, the regularly designated President of the Board of
Commissioners until such time as a quorum of the Board of Commissioners is no
longer unavailable or incapacitated;
      (2)   Second, the Vice President of the Board Commissioners, if the
regularly designated president is unavailable or incapacitated until the
regularly designated president or a quorum of the Board of Commissioners is no
longer unavailable or incapacitated;
      (3)   Third, the remaining Commissioner of the Board of Commissioners, if
the regularly designated President and the Vice President are all unavailable
or incapacitated until the regularly designated President or Vice President is
no longer unavailable or incapacitated;
      (4)   Fourth, the County Auditor if all of the County Commissioners are
unavailable or incapacitated, until such time that a County Commissioner is no
longer unavailable or incapacitated:
      (5)   Fifth, the County Clerk if all of the County Commissioners and the
County Auditor are unavailable or incapacitated, until such time as one of the
persons named in the prior paragraphs is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated.
      (6)   Sixth, the County Recorder, if all of the County Commissioners, the
County Auditor and the County Clerk are unavailable or incapacitated, until
such time as one of the persons named in the prior paragraphs is no longer
unavailable or incapacitated.
      (7)   Seventh, the County Sheriff, if all of the County Commissioners,
the County Auditor, the Clerk and the Recorder are unavailable or
incapacitated, until such time as one of the persons named in the prior
paragraphs is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (8)   Eighth, the Director of Emergency Management, if all of the County
Commissioners, the County Auditor, the County Clerk, the County Recorder and
the County Sheriff are unavailable or incapacitated, until such time as one of
the persons named in the prior paragraphs is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 31.02  GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the County Emergency Management
Ordinance.
   (B)   Liberal construction of powers. The general intent of this chapter is
to provide for all necessary and indispensable powers and procedures reasonably
needed to mitigate, prepare for, respond to and recover from emergency
conditions. To this end, all powers, both ministerial and discretionary, as
conferred herein shall be liberally construed to supplement and augment, not to
limit, any other powers or reasonable exercise of discretion which may
ordinarily pertain to county officers, employees, department and agencies.
   (C)   Limitations. Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or
delimit any statutory powers of the County Sheriff, nor the powers granted
under I.C. 10-14-3-17 to any political subdivision to adopt and implement
emergency plans and promulgate and enforce emergency management rules and
regulations in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such political
subdivision. However, such regulations and procedures as promulgated by the
political subdivision may not be inconsistent with the county emergency
management program and emergency plan established in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 31.03  COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Re-establishment of the County Emergency Management Advisory Council. 
In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17, there is re-established the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council which shall consist of the following
individuals or their designees: the President of the County Board of
Commissioners; the President of the County Council; the Mayors of each city
located in the county; an individual representing the legislative bodies of all
towns located in the county; the Sheriff of the county; the Director of the
Emergency Medical Service of the county; and one commander of a local civil air
patrol unit in the county, should the county form such a unit. The County Board
of Commissioners may, from time to time, appoint additional members to Advisory
Council who are considered appropriate by the Advisory Council.
   (B)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of a majority of members of the
Advisory Council.
   (C)   Advisory Council Officers. The Advisory Council shall elect a
chairperson, a vice-chairperson and a recording secretary, who shall serve for
one-year terms.
   (D)   Powers and duties of Advisory Council. Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17(d),
the Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control over the
emergency management and disaster program of the county and select or cause to
be selected, with the approval of the Board of Commissioners, a county
emergency management and disaster director who has direct responsibility for
the organization, administration and operation of the emergency management
program in the county; and is responsible to the chairperson of the Advisory
Council.
   (E)   Meetings. The Advisory Council shall meet at least twice each year,
with the frequency, time and location being determined by the Advisory Council.
As the governing body of a public agency, all meetings of the Advisory Council
shall be open to the public and subject to the requirements of the Indiana Open
Door Law (I.C. 5-14-1.5) and the Indiana Access to Public Records Act (I.C. 5-
14-3). The public records of the Advisory Council are subject to the retention
schedule adopted by the County Commission of Public Records in accordance with
I.C. 5-15-6. et seq.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 31.04  DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Re-establishment of Department. There is hereby re-established the
County Department of Emergency Management within the executive branch of the
county government for the purpose of utilizing to the fullest extent possible
the personnel and facilities of existing county departments and agencies to
prepare for and meet any disaster as defined in this chapter. The Director of
Emergency Management shall be responsible for its organization, administration
and operation.
   (B)   Staffing. The Department shall consist of the following: an executive
head of the Department of Emergency Management, who shall be known as the
Director of Emergency Management; a deputy director appointed by the Director,
which position may be voluntary or paid; an assistant deputy director and radio
officer, which will be voluntary; and emergency management volunteers, as
deemed necessary and appointed by the Director.
      (1)   Qualifications of volunteers. In addition to the other requirements
in this section, the Director shall ensure that all volunteer personnel meet
the following qualifications before being placed on the roster as a member of
the Department: be at least 18 years of age or older; have no felony or Class A
misdemeanor convictions; have a completed and filed an application with the
Department; and have signed and on file an oath as provided in I.C. 10-14-3-27
(b).
      (2)   Other personnel. In addition to the staff and volunteers, the
Department may exercise jurisdiction over such employees, equipment and
facilities of all county departments and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to
emergency management and designated by or appointed by the Director in
accordance with the County Emergency Management Comprehensive Plan to
participate in emergency management activity.
      (3)   Prohibition of political activity. Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-26, the
Department and its employees are prohibited from participating in any form of
political activity or being employed for political purposes. Political
qualifications may not be a consideration for appointment to the Department nor
a cause for dismissal, except as provided in division (E) of this section.
Full-time employees of the Department may not participate in political
activities.
      (4)   Oath. Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27(b), each individual who is
appointed to serve in the Department shall, before entering upon the
individual’s duties, take an oath, in writing, in form and substance as set
forth in I.C. 10-14-3-27(b) before a person authorized to administer oaths in
the state. For the purposes of this section, the Executive Director of IDHS and
the Director shall be authorized to administer the oath to emergency management
and disaster personnel; and may delegate that authority to designated deputies
and assistants as may be approved by the Executive Director of IDHS.
      (5)   Subversive activities. No person shall be employed by or associated
in any capacity with the Department who advocates a change by force or violence
in the constitutional form of government of the United States or the overthrow
of any government in the United States by force or violence; or has been
convicted of or is under indictment or information charging a subversive act
against the United States.
   (C)   Budget. The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the
preparation of the budget. All funds appropriated or otherwise available to the
Department of Emergency Management shall be administered by the Director.
   (D)   Funding. The County Council shall have general statutory powers to
determine the numbers of officers, deputies and employees of county
departments, classify positions and adopt schedules of compensation pursuant to
I.C. 36-2-5-3(a). The County Council shall appropriate such funds, as it may
deem necessary for the purpose of emergency management. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, with the exception of the Director, a
compensated position may not be established within the Department of Emergency
Management nor shall any person be appointed to such position without
authorization and sufficient funding from the County Council.
   (E)   Duties. The Department, subject to the direction and control of the
Director, shall carry out the following specific duties:
      (1)   Write and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan,
which shall conform to the guidelines contained in the most current state and
federal guidance;
      (2)   Update the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan as needed to
keep it current, as required by I.C. 10-14-3-1 et seq.;
      (3)   Develop a program to test and exercise the Emergency Plan;
      (4)   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in written form
a clear and complete statement of the emergency responsibilities of all local
agencies and officials and of the disaster chain of command;
      (5)   Work closely with officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county to develop a hazard mitigation program to
eliminate or reduce potential hazards;
      (6)   Establish an incident management system and a unified command
system to be used in a response to a disaster or emergency; and
      (7)   Undertake any other duties and responsibilities necessary,
incidental or appropriate to implement the provisions of I.C. 10-14-3.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 31.05  COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR.
   (A)   General powers and duties. The Director, subject to the direction and
control of the Advisory Council, shall be executive head of the Department and
shall have responsibility for the organization, administration and operation of
the County Emergency Management Department in a manner consistent with state
law. In particular, but not by limitation, the Director, through the
Department, may perform or cause to be performed with respect to the county,
any function parallel or analogous to those performed on a statewide basis by
IDHS under I.C. 10-14-3-1 et seq. The Emergency Management Director’s
appointment shall be permanent unless it is terminated for cause by the
Advisory Council, with the approval of the Board of Commissioners. Termination
“for cause” means termination because the Director is incapable of fulfilling
his or her duties; has failed to perform his or her duties; or becomes
disqualified because he or she engaged in political activity prohibited under
I.C. 10-14-3-6.
   (B)   Specific duties. Subject to the direction and control of the Advisory
Council, the Director exercises the following powers and performs the following
duties: keep the Advisory Council informed on emergency management activities;
keep the Board of Commissioners informed of emergency management activities;
assure that the duties and responsibilities of the Emergency Management
Department are completed; design and conduct exercises of the Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan as required by IDHS; submit to IDHS the assessment
specified in IDHS’s required format and within IDHS’s required time frame for
submission; provide to IDHS Director annual reports and documentation as
mandated; timely respond to the Chairman of the Advisory Council, as required
by law; assure that the activities of the Department at all times comport with
I.C. 10-14-3-1 et seq.; develop an emergency operating center (“EOC”) as a site
from which key officials can direct and control operations during a disaster or
emergency; attend and attain passing grades, in such emergency management
training as may be required by IDHS; manage the Department’s various functions,
including financial, personnel and logistic matters; be responsible for all
training of county employees and rostered volunteers and design and conduct all
exercises as required by IDHS; assume responsibility for public relations,
information and education; maintain liaison and coordinate with other affected
agencies, public and private, as funding permits; and exercise any and all
other powers with respect to emergency management that are deemed necessary,
incidental or appropriate to implement the provisions of I.C. 10-14-3.
   (C)   Deputy Director. The Deputy Director shall fulfill the duties of the
Director in the absence or incapacity of the Director to serve and assist the
Director in the performance of Director’s duties.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 31.06  COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Formulation. The Department shall write and implement a Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan (referred to as the interjurisdictional disaster
emergency plan under I.C. 10-14-3-1 et seq). The Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan shall be adopted by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
In the preparation of this Plan, as it pertains to county organization, it is
the intent that the services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all
existing departments and agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent
possible. The Department shall update the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan as needed to maintain compliance with state law, and shall develop a
program to test and exercise the Emergency Plan.
   (B)   Content. The Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall satisfy the
requirements of such rules and regulations as required by state and federal
agencies and departments have jurisdiction over such matters. In addition, all
emergency services within the county shall develop standard operating
procedures, standard operating guides and checklists that are drafted subject
to the requirements of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; coordinate
standard operating procedures, standard operating guides and checklists with
the Department of Emergency Management; assure inclusion of the standard
operating procedures, standard operating guides and checklists within the
county Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; perform the functions and
duties assigned by the County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan in a
current state of readiness at all times.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. Except as otherwise provided by law, the jurisdiction of
the County Department of Emergency Management shall be comprehensive and
inclusive county-wide and effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated
areas of the county. The jurisdiction and applicability of the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, and the exercise of any powers of the
County Board of Commissioners, shall be comprehensive and inclusive county-wide
and effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (D)   Plans of political subdivisions with the county. To the extent any
political subdivision with the county develops an emergency management plan for
its jurisdiction, such political subdivision shall ensure that the plan is
consistent with the requirements of the County Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan; coordinate the development of the plan with the Department of
Emergency Management; and ensure inclusion of the plan within the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan. All political subdivisions within the
county shall perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and maintain their portion of the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan in a current state of readiness at all
times.
   (E)   Conduct of tests. Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
may be conducted at any time with or without prior notification to persons
other than the Director. All emergency tests conducted within the boundaries of
the county shall be coordinated with the Department.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 31.07  ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   In time of normal county operation, the Board of Commissioners shall have
the following powers and duties consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan: maintain general supervision over the planning and
administration for the Department; adopt a Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan; coordinate emergency management activities; make assignments of county
personnel to emergency management activities; make assignments of county
personnel to emergency management duties in order to meet situations not
covered in the normal duties and power of such agencies; take all necessary
action in coordination with the Department to conduct tests of the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and educate its members as to their
responsibilities under the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 31.08  COUNTY EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section shall apply whenever the Governor,
pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-11 and 10-14-3-12 has declared a disaster emergency
affecting all or part of the county; the Principal Executive Officer of the
county, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29 is preparing to or has declared a local
disaster emergency affecting all or part of the county; or the Board of
Commissioners has implemented a test of the county’s Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan and procedures in accordance with and to the extent necessary
or dispensable to such test.
   (B)   Declaration of disaster emergency. In the event of an actual or
threatened disaster emergency affecting the county, the Principal Executive
Officer of the county may declare a local emergency, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-
29. If feasible, the Principal Executive Officer of the county shall seek the
advice and input of the Director as to the advisability of declaring a local
disaster emergency.
      (1)   Contents of the declaration. The declaration shall be in writing;
state the nature of the disaster; state the conditions that have brought the
disaster about; state the area or areas threatened; state the area or areas to
which the local disaster emergency declaration applies (this may include the
entire county or only designated parts thereof); and state the effective period
of the local disaster emergency declaration. The disaster declaration shall not
be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days except by or with
the consent of the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Publication of declaration. The declaration of a local disaster
emergency, as well as any continuation or termination of such declaration shall
be announced or disseminated to the general public by the best means available;
and filed promptly in the offices of the County Clerk; the County Auditor and
the Clerk of any incorporated municipality located in the declared disaster
area.
      (3)   Effect of declaration. The declaration shall not be invalidated or
ineffective if any of the filing and dissemination requirements cannot be
complied with due to the prevailing adverse circumstances. Upon a declaration,
the County’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan or such component parts
thereof as may be relevant to the emergency shall be activated and implemented.
      (4)   Effect of Governor’s declaration. Declaration of a local disaster
emergency is not necessary if the Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-7, has
already proclaimed a statewide or area-wide disaster emergency that includes
the county.
      (5)   Meeting of Board of Commissioners.  As provided by I.C. 36-2-2-
8 and 5-14-1.5-5(d), a special meeting of the County Board of Commissioners
shall be called as soon as possible after the disaster emergency that affects
the county has been declared, either by the Governor or by the Principal
Executive Officer of the county, to perform their legislative and
administrative functions as the situation may demand.
   (C)   Special emergency powers of Principal Executive Officer. In the event
that a disaster emergency has been declared that affects all or part of the
county, and a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners cannot be assembled
for purposes of the meeting, the Principal Executive Officer of the county
shall have, on an interim basis, all powers of the County Board of
Commissioners and may take all such actions with respect to the disaster
emergency declaration that the County Board of Commissioners would have been
authorized to take. When a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is
assembled, these interim powers of the Principal Executive Officer of the
county shall cease.
   (D)   Special emergency powers of the Board of Commissioners. At the meeting
convened under division (B)(5), the Board of Commissioners may exercise any of
their normal executive and legislative powers to the extent related to the
emergency and necessary to deal therewith.  In addition, the Board may also
exercise any of the following special and extraordinary powers:
      (1)   Extension or termination of disaster emergency period.  The County
Board of Commissioners may extend the period of a local disaster emergency
declared by the Principal Executive Officer of the county to last more than
seven days if necessary, or terminate the local disaster emergency.
      (2)   Utilization of emergency management resources. The Board of
Commissioners may assemble and utilize emergency management resources,
including personnel of the Department of Emergency Management; participating
emergency services; and ay other resources at the disposal of the Commissioners
hereunder for emergency management purposes.
      (3)   Order implementation of Comprehensive Emergency Plan. The Board of
Commissioners may order the implementation of the County Comprehensive
Emergency Plan or such several components thereof as may be relevant to the
emergency.
      (4)   Exercise of jurisdiction over volunteer forces. The Board of
Commissioners may order volunteer forces which have been activated pursuant to
the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan to the aid of the county, state or
political subdivisions thereof as soon as practicable. These volunteer forces
shall be under the direction of the Department of Emergency Management.
      (5)   Requisition of provisions and services. In order to control the
local disaster emergency and provide for public health, safety and welfare, the
County Board of Commissioners may, to the extent permitted by I.C. 10-14-3-31
and subject to its provisions, command services and/or requisition the use of
equipment, facilities, supplies or other property belonging to other
organizations, corporations, or private persons as necessary to control the
emergency and protect and provide for the public safety and welfare.
      (6)   Evacuation. The Board of Commissioners may order the evacuation of
all or part of the population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribe
routes; modes of transportation; and evacuation destinations.
      (7)   Housing. The Board of Commissioners may make provision for
availability and use of temporary emergency housing, which housing need not
necessarily comply with any minimum housing standards, building or zoning
regulations, and the like, which would govern the use and location of premises
for housing purposes during normal limes.
      (8)   Assignment of special duties. The Board of Commissioners may assign
any special emergency duties and functions to county offices, departments and
agencies.
      (9)   Utilization of undedicated funds. Any unexpended and unencumbered
monies budgeted and appropriated but not otherwise dedicated by law to
different purposes may, within the scope of each major budget and
appropriations category (major object classification), but utilized and
expended for the purpose of carrying out such special emergency duties and
functions.
      (10)   Issuance, rescission, amendments to orders, rules and regulations.
The Board of Commissioners may make, amend and rescind such orders, rules and
regulations as may be necessary to protect life and property, preserve order,
conserve critical resources and carry out the provisions of the county’s and
state’s disaster plans, including but not limited to the power to order roads
closed, establish curfews, close businesses or any that they deem necessary to
save lives and recover from a declared emergency. All actions and regulations
under this division may be taken by executive order or resolution. This power
includes the power to supplement, modify or suspend any general contingencies
contained in the county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; provided,
however, such orders, rules and regulations cannot be inconsistent with any
orders, rules or regulations promulgated by the Governor or by any state agency
exercising a power delegated to it by the Governor; and cannot be inconsistent
with the county’s emergency management program or emergency plan. Any orders,
rules and regulations shall not be effective until committed to writing and
filed in the office of the County Clerk and County Auditor: provided, however,
should such filing be impossible because of the emergency situation, such
regulations shall be effective and enforceable notwithstanding. The regulation
shall have the full force of law and shall be enforceable by any local or state
law enforcing authority as provided in I.C. 10-14-3-24.
      (11)   Request for assistance. The Board of Commissioners may, in
accordance with the Plan, request the state or the United States or their
agencies and political subdivisions to send aid (including financial
assistance) if the situation is beyond the control of the regular and emergency
county forces and resources.
   (E)   Waiver of statutory requirements. In the event of an enemy attack, or
when a state of emergency has been declared by the Governor, the Board of
Commissioners, in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-22, may waive any procedures or
requirements of statute, or of county ordinances reflecting statutory
requirements and mandates, pertaining to the performance of public works; the
entering into contracts; the incurring of obligations; the employment of
permanent and temporary workers; the utilization of volunteer workers; the
rental of equipment; the purchase and distribution of supplies, materials and
facilities; and the appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
   (F)   Duties of officers and employees of incorporated and unincorporated
areas of the county during emergency. During a declared disaster emergency, all
officers and employees of incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county
shall cooperate with and give active support to the County Board of
Commissioners and the County Emergency Management Director; and comply with all
orders, rules and regulations issued pursuant to this chapter by the County
Board of Commissioners or the County Emergency Management Director.
   (G)   Noncompliance with emergency orders, rules and regulations:
obstruction or impersonation of emergency management authorities; penalties and
enforcement. Whenever this chapter applies, it shall be unlawful and a penal
ordinance violation for any person to willfully obstruct, hinder or delay the
Board of Commissioners, the Director of Emergency Management, participating
emergency services, authorized emergency management volunteers or other
authorities from implementing, carrying out and enforcing the Emergency Plan;
fail to observe, abide by and comply with any emergency management duties,
orders, regulations and procedures as made applicable to such person by the
appropriate authorities; falsely wear or carry identification as a member of
the Department of Emergency Management or to otherwise falsely identify or
purport to be a county emergency management authority.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.09  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   During an emergency management test or declared disaster emergency, the
county, the county’s assigned personnel, participating emergency services, and
rostered emergency management volunteers shall be immune from liability to the
full extent provided by I.C. 10-14-3 and any other applicable law.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 31.10  COMPENSATION FOR PROPERTY COMMANDEERED OR USED DURING DISASTER
EMERGENCY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-31, compensation for property shall be paid only if
the property was commandeered or otherwise used in coping with a disaster
emergency and its use or destruction was ordered by the Governor or a member of
the disaster emergency forces of the state. Any person claiming compensation
for the use, damage, loss or destruction of such property shall make a claim
for it. This claim shall be filed and adjudicated as provided in I.C. 32-24.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §
31.08(G) shall be liable to a fine of up to $2,500 per violation, or the
maximum amount allowable by law for ordinance violations, with such line to be
determined by the Greene Circuit or Superior Court having jurisdiction over
ordinance violations. In addition, such person shall be liable for reasonable
attorney fees inclined by the county in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the state or any of its
political subdivisions is hereby empowered to issue and serve a civil citation
against any person found to be committing a violation of §
31.07(G).
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013)
CHAPTER 32:  FEES AND FUNDS
Section
Funds
   
32.01   EMS Equipment Purchase and Replacement Fund
   
32.02   EMS Billing Services Fund
   
32.03   Law Enforcement Fund
   
32.04   Correction Fund
   
32.05   Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing Fund
   
32.06   Identification Security Protection Fund
   
32.07   Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund
   
32.08   Seized Asset Fund
   
32.09   Rainy Day Fund
   
32.10   Sheriff’s Sale Fund; program and service fees
   
32.11   Self-Insurance Fund
   
32.12   Radio Repair and Maintenance Fund
   
32.13   Internal Service Fuel Fund
   
32.14   Emergency Management Equipment Fund
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                 
   Community Event Center Fund, see §
30.24
Fees
   
32.25   Real property endorsement fees
   
32.26   Electronic map data fees
   
32.27   Document recording fees
   
32.28   Unpaid, dishonored check fees
   
32.29   Tobacco diversion program fees
   
32.30   EMS fees
Taxes
   
32.40   Innkeepers’ Tax
FUNDS
§ 32.01  EMS EQUIPMENT PURCHASE AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of the EMS Equipment Purchase and Replacement Fund. The
Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a fund that shall be known as the
“EMS Equipment Purchase and Replacement Fund” (“the EMS Fund”).
   (B)   Deposits. The County Auditor is authorized and directed to deposit
into the EMS Fund, from revenues derived from the provision of emergency
medical services by the EMS, the fixed sum of $9,000 per month, commencing on
11-1-2010, and each month thereafter, until this section is modified or
repealed. The moneys accumulated in the EMS Fund shall be utilized only as
provided in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   Expenditures. Except as provided in division (D) below, no moneys
deposited into the EMS Fund shall be expended, except to purchase, upgrade or
replace ambulance vehicles, cots, monitors, computer equipment and other
equipment necessary for the operation of the EMS.
   (D)   Transfer. In the event the EMS establishes that the EMS Fund has
accumulated moneys in excess of those needed for the purposes set forth in
division (C) above, the EMS Director may, with the approval of the Board of
Commissioners, transfer funds from the EMS Fund into the Ambulance Fund for
uses related to the general operation of the EMS.
   (E)   Appropriations. Expenditures from the EMS Fund shall be subject to
appropriation by the County Council.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon its passage.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2010-07, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 32.02  EMS BILLING SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes fund that
shall be known as the “EMS Billing Services Fund” (“the EMS Billing Fund”).
   (B)   Deposits. The County Auditor is authorized and directed to continue to
deposit into the EMS Billing Fund each month, from revenues derived from the
provision of emergency medical sendees by the Emergency Medical Service
(“EMS”), sums as may be reasonably required for the payment of billing
services.
   (C)   Regular expenditures. Except as otherwise provided, no moneys
deposited into the EMS Billing Fund shall be expended except for the payment of
billing services.
   (D)   Additional expenditures. In the event the EMS determines that the EMS
Billing Fund has accumulated moneys in excess of those needed for the purposes
set forth in division (C) above, the EMS Director may, with the approval of the
Board of Commissioners, transfer funds from the EMS Fund into the Ambulance
Fund for uses related to the general operation of the EMS.
   (E)   Appropriations. Expenditures from the EMS Fund for payment of billing
services shall not be subject to appropriation by the County Council. All other
expenditures from the fund shall be subject to appropriation by the County
Council.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon its passage.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-19-2010; Ord. 2010-12, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 32.03  LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a “Law Enforcement Fund”. The Fund shall
consist of deposits in the form of proceeds recovered by the Office of the
County Prosecuting Attorney and/or any law enforcement agency in forfeiture
actions filed pursuant to I.C. 34-24-1 (formerly 34-4-30.1) and 34-24-2
(formerly 34-4-30.5) liquidations of personal or real property obtained from
criminal defendants in those actions, donations, voluntary surrenders of funds
and assets from criminal defendants and other law enforcement related fees
recovered by the office of the County Prosecutor which are not required to be
deposited in the County General Fund.
   (B)   The Law Enforcement Fund shall be appropriated for funding law
enforcement activities, including drug enforcement, in the county and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred by the Prosecuting Attorney’s Office in
pursuing forfeiture and RICO actions.
   (C)   All moneys collected under this section shall be transferred to the
County Auditor who shall deposit the funds with the County Treasurer.
Disbursement of these funds shall be directed by the County Prosecutor subject
to the appropriation requirement hereof. Moneys remaining in the fund at the
end of the year shall not revert to any other fund but shall continue in the
Law Enforcement Fund.
   (D)   Moneys from this fund shall be subject to appropriation by the County
Council in accordance with Indiana Code.
   (E)   The funds, after appropriation, shall be used by the County Law
Enforcement Agencies for law enforcement and drug investigations, which may
include the purchase of drugs, controlled substances, stolen property and to
pay confidential informants, and to purchase and maintain equipment and law
enforcement costs as defined by I.C. 34-6-2-73.
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon passage and
compliance with I.C. 36-2-4-8.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 6-20-2000)
§ 32.04  CORRECTION FUND.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby elect to receive deposits
from the Department of Correction in accordance with state statute.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby elect to receive the deposits
at level 3 funding.
   (C)   There is hereby created a County Corrections Fund to be administered
by the County Council. The fund shall consist of deposits received from the
Department of Corrections in accordance with state statute.
   (D)   The County Corrections fund may be used only for funding the operation
of the county jail, jail programs or other local correctional facilities. Any
money remaining in a county corrections fund at the end of the year does not
revert to any other fund, but remains in the County Corrections Fund.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon passage.
(Ord. 1999-1, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 32.05  RIVERBOAT WAGERING TAX REVENUE SHARING FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of the County Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing
Fund. Pursuant to I.C. 4-33-13, there is hereby established the County
Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing Fund.
   (B)   Administration. The Fund shall be administered by the County Auditor.
   (C)   Appropriations. Expenditures from the Fund shall be subject to
appropriation by the County Council.
   (D)   Deposits. Pursuant to I.C. 4-33-13, all funds received from the
Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenues shall be deposited into the Fund.
   (E)   Disbursements. The Auditor shall disburse from the Fund the share each
city and town in the county is entitled to receive from the distributions
received from the state.
   (F)   Authorized expenditures. Pursuant to I.C. 4-3-33- 13-5, no moneys
received by the county as part of its distribution from the Riverboat Wagering
Tax Revenues shall be expended except for the following purposes:
      (1)   To reduce the property levy of the county;
      (2)   To fund additional property tax replacement credits in property tax
increment allocation areas;
      (3)   To fund sewer and water projects, including storm water management;
      (4)   For police and fire pension; and
      (5)   To carry out any governmental purpose for which the fiscal body of
the county appropriates the riverboat wagering tax revenue revenues; including
economic development purposes.
   (G)   Governing law. The Fund shall be administered consistent with and
subject to the provisions of I.C. 4-33-13-1 et seq., as may be amended from
time to time.
   (H)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon passage by the
Board of Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 32.06  IDENTIFICATION SECURITY PROTECTION FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of the County Identification Security Protection Fund.
Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7.5-11(b), there is hereby established the County
Identification Security Protection Fund (the “Fund”).
   (B)   Administration. The Fund shall be administered by the County Recorder.
   (C)   Appropriations. Expenditures from the Fund shall be subject to
appropriation by the County Council.
   (D)   Deposits. Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7.5-6(c), commencing on 1-1-2006, and
continuing until 6-30-2011, the County Recorder shall deposit into the Fund the
sum of $2 for each fee collected for the recording of a document. This
provision shall expire on 7-1-2011, unless otherwise extended by state law.
   (E)   Expenditures. Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7.5-11(d), no moneys deposited
into the Fund shall be expended, except to purchase, upgrade, implement or
maintain redacting technology used in the office of the County Recorder;
provided, however, the County Recorder shall be authorized to make any other
expenditures that may, from time to time, be authorized by state law, without
further amendment to this section.
   (F)   No reversion. Moneys remaining in the Fund as of 6-30-2011 shall
remain in the Fund and shall not revert to the County General Fund.
   (G)   Governing law. The Fund shall be administered consistent with and
subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-2-7.5, as may be amended from time to
time.
   (H)   Effective date. This section shall be effective commencing on 1-1-
2006.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 32.07  SEX AND VIOLENT OFFENDER ADMINISTRATION FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund. The
County Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund is hereby established. The
purpose of the Fund is to defray the expense  of administration or ensuring
compliance with the laws concerning the State Sex and Violent Offender
Registry. The County Council may appropriate money from the fund for this
purpose.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Registration fee. The County Sheriff is hereby authorized to charge
and collect an annual fee for sex and violent offenders registering in the
county, which fee shall be an amount not to exceed the amount allowed by state
law.  Payment of the fee shall be made upon the offender’s initial registration
in the county and subsequently on or before each annual registration.
      (2)   Change of address fee. The County Sheriff is hereby authorized to
charge and collect a fee not to exceed that allowed by state law each time a
sex or violent offender registers an address change with the County Sheriff’s
Department.
   (C)   Payment of fees. The County Sheriff’s Department shall collect all
fees collected under this section when a sex or violent offender registers with
the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (D)   Procedures. All fees collected under this section by the County
Sheriff’s Department shall be transferred to the County Auditor. On a monthly
basis, the County Sheriff’s Department shall:
      (1)   Deposit 90% of any fees collected under this section in the County
Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund; and
      (2)   Transfer 10% of any fees collected under this section to the state
for deposit in the State Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund under
I.C. 11-8-8-21.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 32.08  SEIZED ASSET FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a “Seized Asset Fund” (Seized Asset Fund). The
Seized Asset Fund shall consist of deposits in the form of proceeds recovered
by the Office of the County Prosecuting Attorney and/or the county law
enforcement agencies in forfeiture actions filed pursuant to I.C. 34-24-1 and
34-24-2, liquidations of personal or real property obtained from criminal
defendants in those actions, donations and voluntary surrenders of funds and
assets from criminal defendants.
      (1)   The Seized Asset Fund shall be appropriate for funding law
enforcement activities conducted by the county law enforcement agencies and/or
other special crime units, and for reimbursement of expenses incurred by the
County Prosecuting Attorney’s Office in pursuing forfeiture and RICO actions.
      (2)   All moneys collected under this section shall be transferred to the
County Auditor who shall deposit the moneys with the County Treasurer in the
Seized Asset Fund. Disbursement of these moneys shall be directed by the County
Prosecutor, subject to the appropriation requirement of division (A)(3)
below. Moneys remaining in the Fund at the end of the year shall not revert to
any other fund, but shall continue in the Seized Asset Fund.
      (3)   Moneys from this Fund shall be subject to appropriation by the
County Council in accordance with I.C. 36-2-5-2.
      (4)   The funds deposited in the Seized Asset Fund shall be appropriated
and used by county law enforcement agencies, special crime units and the County
Prosecutor’s Office to cover the expenses and costs of investigation and
prosecution of criminal activity as provided in I.C. 34-24-1-4.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon passage and
compliance with I.C. 34-24-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 6-5-2007)
§ 32.09  RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of the Greene County Rainy Day Fund. Pursuant to I.C.
36-1-8-5.1, there is hereby established the County Rainy Day Fund.
   (B)   Administration. The Fund shall be administered by the County Auditor.
   (C)   Appropriations. Expenditures from the Fund shall be subject to
appropriation by the County Council.
   (D)   Deposits. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8-5.1(b)(2):
      (1)   All unused and unencumbered funds distributed to the county under:
         (a)   I.C. 36-1-8-5; and
         (b)   Any other funding source specific by other statute, or any
amendment or recodification thereof.
      (2)   Any transfers by the County Council from the County General Fund
shall be deposited into the Fund.
   (E)   Authorized expenditures. No moneys deposited into the Fund shall be
expended, except for the following purposes:
      (1)   To reduce the property levy of the county;
      (2)   To fund additional property tax replacement credits in property tax
increment allocation areas; or
      (3)   To carry out any governmental purpose for which the fiscal body of
the county appropriates the Fund, including economic development purposes.
   (F)   Limitation on transfers to the Fund. In any fiscal year, the County
Council may not approve the transfer under I.C. 36-1-8-1 et seq., more than 10%
of the county’s total annual budget for that fiscal year into the Fund.
   (G)   Governing law. The Fund shall be administered consistent with and
subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-8-1 et seq., as may be amended from time
to time.
   (H)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon passage by the
Board of Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 3-20-2007)
§ 32.10  SHERIFF’S SALE FUND; PROGRAM AND SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   Establishment of Fund. The Commissioners hereby establish a fund to be
titled the Sheriff’s Sale Fund into which all collections of fees and costs
incurred by the Sheriff pursuant to I.C. 32-29-7-3 shall be deposited and from
which the appropriate expenses related to the foreclosure sales be appropriated
and paid.
   (B)   Non-reverting fund. The Sheriff is hereby authorized to charge an
administrative fee of not to exceed that allowed by state law for each
proceeding referred to in I.C. 32-29-7-3 for actual costs directly attributable
to the administration of the sale. The Sheriff’s Sale Fund shall be a non-
reverting fund to be used only for the purposes set forth herein and shall not
revert to the County General Fund at year end.
   (C)   Use of funds. The Sheriff’s Sale Fund may be used to pay for contract
services related to the conduct of foreclosure sale proceedings and other costs
associated with the service of notice and conduct of the sale, including
administrative expenses. The Sheriff may utilize funds for other purposes with
the approval of the Board of Commissioners and the County Council.
   (D)   Administration of Fund. The Sheriff shall maintain a complete and
accurate accounting of all Sheriff Sale Program proceeds and compliance with
any reporting or record requirements as set forth by the State Board of
Accounts.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall be effective 30 days after adoption
and publication, as provided by state law.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 32.11  SELF-INSURANCE FUND.
   (A)   The Auditor of the county is authorized and directed to withhold or
cause to be withheld from participating employees’ salaries or wages whatever
part of the cost of the plan the Board of Commissioners, shall, from time to
time, designate to be withheld from the employees’ salaries or wages.
   (B)   The Auditor of the county is authorized and directed to deposit into
the Fund all premiums collected from employees and all funds appropriated and
designated for the payment of insurance premiums and claims.
   (C)   The Auditor of the county is authorized and directed to pay from the
Fund, insurance premiums due and owing pursuant to the insurance contract, and
also to pay any claims due and owing by the county pursuant to the contract.
   (D)   In the event the county terminates its self-insurance plan, any moneys
in the Fund shall be deposited into the County General Fund.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.12  RADIO REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of the Radio Repair and Maintenance Fund. The Board of
Commissioners hereby establishes a non-reverting fund that shall be known as
the Emergency Management Services Radio Repair and Maintenance Fund (Radio
Repair Fund).
   (B)   Deposits. The County Auditor is authorized and directed to deposit
into the Radio Repair Fund, such funds as are received by the Emergency
Management Services from state and federal grant programs related to the
provision of 800 MHZ radio equipment for county emergency service providers.
The moneys accumulated in the EMS Fund shall be utilized only as provided in
divisions (C) and (D).
   (C)   Expenditures. Except as provided in division (D), no moneys deposited
into the Radio Repair Fund shall be expended except for repairs and maintenance
of the 800 MHZ radios utilized by emergency service providers in the county.
   (D)   General operation.  In the event the Emergency Management Agency
establishes that the Radio Repair Fund has accumulated moneys in excess of
those needed for the purposes set forth in division (C), the Emergency
Management Director may, with the approval of the Board of Commissioners,
expend funds from the Radio Repair Fund uses related to the general operation
of the Emergency Management Agency.
   (E)   Administration of Fund. The Director of the County Emergency
Management Agency shall be responsible for the administration of the Radio
Repair Fund and shall authorize and approve all expenditures from the Radio
Repair Fund.
   (F)   Appropriations. Expenditures from the Radio Repair Fund shall be
subject to appropriation by the County Council.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 32.13  INTERNAL SERVICE FUEL FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of the Internal Service Fuel Fund. The Board of
Commissioners hereby establishes a fund that shall be known as the "Internal
Service Fuel Fund" ("the Fund").
   (B)   Expenditures. No monies deposited into the Fund shall be expended
except for the payment of fuel purchases.
   (C)   Deposits. As soon as is practicable after approval of appropriation by
the Greene County Council, the Greene County Auditor is authorized and directed
to deposit into the Fund an initial sum of $ 10,000.00 from any appropriate
monies the County has available for general fuel purchases.
   (D)   Designation of Purchasing Agent. The Highway Department is hereby
designated as the Purchasing Agent for the purchase of fuel as may be requested
by other county departments and agencies. This provision shall not restrict the
ability of any county department or agency from making fuel purchases as such
department or agency may deem necessary or proper. In addition, this fund shall
apply to fuel purchases made for the use of other non-county governmental
entities pursuant to contracts that may be entered into by the county and such
entities.
   (E)   Record keeping. The Highway Department shall maintain records of the
cost per gallon of fuel purchased and the quantities of fuel that each county
department or agency that acquires from the Highway Department. The Highway
Department shall bill monthly each department or agency that acquires fuel at
the cost paid by the Highway Department.
   (F)   Reimbursements. Every county department or agency that obtains fuel
from the Greene County Highway Department shall reimburse the Fund for the cost
of the fuel acquired from the Highway Department.
   (G)   Appropriations. Expenditures from the Fund shall be subject to such
appropriation by the Greene County Council as may be required by law.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 10-15-2013)
§ 32.14  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a fund
that shall be known as the Emergency Management Equipment Fund ("the EME
Fund").
   (B)   Deposits. The Greene County Auditor is authorized and directed to
deposit into the EME Fund donations or appropriations as may be received to
enhance the operation of the Emergency Management Service.
   (C)   Expenditures. No donations deposited into the EME Fund shall be
expended except for the purpose for which such funds were given.
   (D)   Appropriations. Expenditures from the EME Fund shall be subject to
appropriations by the Greene County Council.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 7-7-2015)
FEES
§ 32.25  REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT FEES.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the “Property Endorsement Fee
Ordinance”.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the county herein establishes the “Plat
Book Maintenance Fund”, as a dedicated fund for use in maintaining plat books,
as provided in I.C. 36-2-9-18.
   (C)   The Auditor of the county is hereby authorized to assess, collect and
directed to deposit into the Fund a fee not to exceed that allowed by state law
for the legal description of each parcel contained in every deed for which the
Auditor makes a real property endorsement.
   (D)   All funds collected in the Plat Book Maintenance Fund shall be
expended solely for the purposes set forth in I.C. 36-2-9-18, and for no other
purposes.
   (E)   The Auditor of the county is directed to publish a copy of this
section in newspapers of general circulation, as provided in I.C. 5-3-1 et
seq., and shall commence assessment of property endorsement fees on or after 30
days following publication of this section or 11-1-2003, whichever date is
sooner.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 32.26  ELECTRONIC MAP DATA FEES.
   (A)   Title and definitions.
      (1)   This section and any parts herein shall be known as the “Greene
County Electronic Map Ordinance”.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-2:
         ELECTRONIC MAP DATA. Copyrighted data created and provided by a public
agency from an electronic geographic information system.
         PERSON. An individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a
partnership, an unincorporated association or a governmental entity.
   (B)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(j), the county may charge a fee, uniform
to all persons for providing electronic map data that is based upon a
reasonable percentage of the county’s direct cost of maintaining upgrading and
enhancing the electronic map and for the direct cost of supplying the
electronic map in the form requested by the person(s).
      (2)   In the case where disclosable and non-disclosable electronic map
data are combined, I.C. 5-14-3-6 provides that the county may charge a
reasonable fee for the county’s direct cost of computer programming to separate
disclosable from non-disclosable electronic map data.
      (3)   It is hereby established by the County Commissioners and County
Council that the initial fee schedule for the transmission of electronic map
data is as set forth below.
 
            An annual fee of $1,500, paid in advance, for the continuous transmission of
            available and disclosable county-wide non-photo electronic map data layers
Complete    A fee of $750, paid in advance for a one time delivery of available and
map data    disclosable county-wide non-photo electronic map data layers delivered on a
layers      CD
            A fee of $750, paid in advance, for a one time delivery of a county’s most
            recent aerial photo layer delivered on CDs
Separating
disclosable A fee of $150 per hour for computer programming required to separate
and non-    disclosable and non-disclosable electronic map data if this is required as
disclosable part of a one time map data request
data
Subsets of
map data
layers (for A fee of $75 per hour for the preparation of one time specifically requested
less than   subsets of county electronic map data
countywide
areas)
 
      (4)   If the county contracts with a third party contractor to handle the
transmission of county electronic map data, the third party contractor shall
receive two-thirds, and the county one-third of the fees charged the person for
electronic map data. This fee schedule shall be reviewed on an annual basis and
may be changed on an annual basis to reflect the change in the cost in
providing the electronic map data.
   (C)   Exceptions to fee schedule.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k), any public agency, as defined by I.C.
5-14-3-2, located within the county or within adjacent counties that agrees to
share with the county any electronic map information that the public agency
might have, if any, that is of the same type as is being shared by the county,
the county will agree to automatically approve a data sharing application with
that public agency and waive that portion of the electronic map fee that would
otherwise be retained by the county.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k), the county’s retained portion of the
electronic map fee shall be waived at the county’s discretion if the use of the
electronic map data will be used for a non-commercial purpose, including the
following: public agencies that do not agree to share with county the same type
of electronic map data being provided by the county, non-profit activities,
journalism and/or academic research.
   (D)   Third party contractor.
      (1)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-3.6, electronic map information may
be provided to person(s) through the county’s own computer gateway, or by
agreement through a computer gateway of a third party contractor. I.C. 5-14-3-
3.6(e) provides that a contract entered into under this section may require the
payment of a reasonable fee to either the third party contractor, the county,
or both.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-4, neither the county nor the third
party contractor shall disclose electronic map data that is specifically
excepted from disclosure requirements.
   (E)   Payment. Where the county is using its own computer gateway for the
provision to person(s) of electronic map data, payment shall be made by the
person(s) at the time of delivery. Where the county has entered into an
agreement with a third party contractor to provide electronic map data through
the third party contractor’s computer gateway, the third party contractor shall
handle the billing and invoicing of the fees charged and shall agree to send by
U.S. mail that portion of the fee due the county to the County’s Electronic Map
Generation Fund within ten business days of the receipt of payment of fees to
the third party contractor by the person(s) making the purchase.
   (F)   Compliance with state statutes. Nothing herein shall compel any office
or their contracted third party contractor to charge a fee for copies if the
fee imposed by this section is contrary to state law. In the event the fees in
this section are contrary to any charges established by state statute, the
state statute shall apply.
   (G)   Use restrictions and notice.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other
than those authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners, may use the
electronic map data provided by the county for commercial purposes, including
to sell, advertise or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods or services or
sell, loan, give away or otherwise deliver the information obtained by request
to any other person for these purposes. This includes the repackaging or
assimilation of electronic map data for a commercial purpose in paper or
electronic media.
      (2)   A person who uses information in a manner contrary to this section
or a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3 may be prohibited by the
county from obtaining any electronic map data.
      (3)   The following notice regarding data ownership, restrictions and
qualifications shall be provided to every person that receives a copy of the
county’s electronic map data.
      (4)   The county’s electronic map data is the property of the county. All
electronic map data supplied by the county has been derived from public records
that are constantly undergoing change and is not warranted for content or
accuracy. The county does not guarantee the positional or thematic accuracy of
the data. The cartographic digital file server is not a legal representation of
any of the features depicted, and the county disclaims any assumption of the
legal status they represent. Any implied warranties, including warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, shall be expressly
excluded. The data represents an actual reproduction of data contained in the
county’s computer files. This data may be incomplete or inaccurate, and is
subject to modifications and changes. Therefore, the county cannot be held
liable for errors or omissions in the data. The recipient’s uses and reliance
upon the data is at the recipient’s risk. By using this data, the recipient
agrees to protect, hold harmless and indemnify the county and its employees and
officers. This indemnity covers reasonable attorney’s fees and all court costs
associated with the defense of the county arising out of this disclaimer. The
recipient may copy this data into computer memory or onto computer storage
devices and prepare derivative works from it for the recipient’s own use.
      (5)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other
than those authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners may use the
electronic map data provided by the county for commercial purposes, including
to sell, advertise or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods or services,
or sell, loan, give away or otherwise deliver the information obtained by
request to any other person for these purposes. A person who uses information
in a manner contrary to a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3(e) may
be prohibited by the Board of Commissioners from obtaining any electronic map
data.
      (6)   A copy of the language contained in this section shall be
conspicuously posted in all offices where electronic map data is sold in the
county, and shall be provided to any person(s) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2)
who desires to purchase electronic map data from the county.
   (H)   Use violation penalty.
      (1)   Any person(s) who violates the terms and conditions of this section
by failing to pay for purchased electronic map data shall be liable for total
fee charged for the electronic map data, plus attorney’s fees and the cost of
collection.
      (2)   Any person(s) who violates the restrictions on the use of
electronic map data as set forth in division (G) above shall be guilty of an
infraction and may be fined by the county up to $2,500, and each violation
shall be deemed a separate offence. Also, in the event that there is an
improper use of electronic map data as set forth in division (G) above or in
violation of state or federal law, the county may prohibit the person(s) (as
defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) from obtaining any electronic map data and seek
injunctive relief from any misuse of electronic map data by the person(s) who
originally purchased the electronic map data or any other person(s) who has
received a copy of the electronic map data.
   (I)   Electronic Map Generation Fund. Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8.5, the
County Council hereby establishes the County Electronic Map Generation Fund.
The Electronic Map Generation Fund shall consist of fees charged for providing
electronic map data to person(s) in accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8(j) and be
subject to the appropriation by the County Council. In accordance with I.C. 5-
14-3-8.5(b), all funds collected in the Electronic Map Generation Fund shall be
specifically dedicated to the following purposes:
      (1)   The maintenance, upgrading and enhancement of the electronic map;
and
      (2)   The reimbursement of expenses incurred by a public agency in
supplying an electronic map in the form requested by the person(s).
   (J)   Dispute resolution. Any person who has a dispute, or seeks relief from
the terms of this section may seek resolution of that dispute or relief from
the Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (K)   Effective date. This section shall be 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-1-2005)
§ 32.27  DOCUMENT RECORDING FEES.
   (A)   Effective as of 8:00 a.m. on 1-2-1996, the County Recorder is hereby
authorized to charge a supplemental fee for recording a document in an amount
not to exceed that allowed by state law.
   (B)   There is hereby established a Records Perpetuation Fund into which all
revenue received by the Recorder pursuant to this section shall be deposited.
   (C)   All revenue received by the Recorder pursuant to this section shall be
deposited in the County Recorder’ Records Perpetuation Fund.
   (D)   The County Recorder shall post the fee set forth in this section in a
prominent place within the Recorder’s Office where the fee schedule is readily
accessible to the public.
(Ord. 1995-7, passed 11-1-1995)
§ 32.28  UNPAID, DISHONORED CHECK FEES.
   (A)   The Office of the County Prosecuting Attorney shall impose a service
charge for each unpaid and dishonored check processed by and through the above-
referenced procedure, to be paid by the payor of the unpaid or dishonored check
for which notice is sent pursuant to state law.
   (B)   The service charge shall be in an amount as the Prosecuting Attorney
may stipulate and fix on a uniform basis (which charge may be a fixed dollar
amount or a percentage of the value of the bad check, but which may not exceed
the amount permitted under state law to cover the costs of providing the
services which the charge shall be reasonably related to the costs associated
with exercising the regulatory power).
   (C)   All services charges collected by the Office of the County Prosecuting
Attorney provided for by this section once collected, are considered County
General Fund Miscellaneous Revenue. The charges shall be remitted by the County
Prosecuting Attorney to the County Auditor on a monthly basis, and the County
Auditor is hereby authorized to establish and maintain a Prosecutor’s Service
Charge Fund, and the charges collected by the Prosecutor’s Office shall be
deposited into the Fund. The County Prosecutor’s Office shall expend and submit
claims for payments of expenses pursuant to the bad check budget submitted by
the County Prosecutor’s Office and approved annually by the County Council. The
County Council may only appropriate moneys on deposit in the Prosecutor’s
Service Charge Fund for purposes of the Prosecutor’s Office, although the
appropriations may be made for any purpose for which county moneys lawfully may
be appropriated to the Prosecutor’s office and need not necessarily be limited
to directly attributable costs of the functions and services from which the
charges derive.
   (D)   When the County Prosecuting Attorney has implemented a bad check
collection service authorized by this section, he or she may establish and
maintain a public funds checking account (trust account) into which he or she
shall deposit the principal amount of any bad check which he or she collects
from the issuer thereof on behalf of the payee or holder. Checks from the
accounts may be written to the payee or holder of the bad check to whom the
money is lawfully due without appropriation.
(Ord. 1995-8, passed 11-15-1995)
§ 32.29  TOBACCO DIVERSION PROGRAM FEES.
   (A)   The Office of the County Prosecuting Attorney or Probation Department
shall impose a service charge for each tobacco infraction diverted for purposes
of tobacco cessation.
   (B)   The service charge shall be in an amount as the Prosecuting Attorney
and the Chief Probation Officer may stipulate as long as it does not exceed 75%
of the fine established by the legislature for tobacco infractions. The fee may
be used to cover costs of providing the services and for other costs related to
tobacco cessation by minors.
   (C)   All service charges collected as provided by this section once
collected are considered County General Fund Miscellaneous Revenue. The program
administrator shall remit the charges to the County Auditor on a daily basis,
and the County Auditor is hereby authorized to establish and maintain a
Prosecutor’s Tobacco Cessation Fund, and the charges collected by the program
administrator shall be deposited into the Fund. The County Prosecutor shall
expend and submit claims for the payments of expenses pursuant to the tobacco
cessation budget submitted by the County Prosecutor’s Office and approved
annually by the County Council. The County Council may only appropriate moneys
on deposit in the Tobacco Cessation Fund for purposes of the Prosecutor’s
Office or Probation Department and implementation of this program.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 6-18-2002)
§ 32.30  EMS FEES.
   Effective on 11-1-2010:
ALS-1 emergency (911)       $1,100
ALS-2 emergency             $1,300
ALS non-emergency           $800
BLS emergency (911)         $750
BLS non-emergency           $600
Limited service             $150
Mileage (loaded miles)      $16 per mile
Paramedic intercept         $150
Specialty care transport    $1,800
Wait fee (after 30 minutes) $40 per half-hour
 
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 10-18-2010; Ord. 2020-01, passed 3-17-2020)
TAXES
§ 32.40  INNKEEPERS’ TAX.
   (A)   The Council establishes the Greene County Innkeepers' Tax ("Tax").
   (B)   The tax shall apply to every person engaged in the business of renting
or furnishing, for periods of less than 30 days, any room or rooms, lodgings or
accommodations in any hotel, motel, inn, or bed and breakfast establishment.
The tax shall apply only to hotels, motels, inns and bed and breakfast
establishments.
   (C)   The tax rate shall be 5.0% of the gross retail income derived from
lodging income only, which tax is in addition to the state retail tax imposed
under I.C. 6-2.5, all as provided in I.C. 6-9-18.
   (D)   The tax shall be reported on forms approved by the County Treasurer
and paid monthly to the County Treasurer not more than 20 days after the end of
the month the tax is collected.
   (E)   The County Auditor shall send a certified copy of this section to the
Commissioners of the Department of State Revenue immediately upon adoption of
this section.
   (F)   The Council authorizes and directs the County Commissioners to create
a Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission.
   (G)   The County Treasurer shall establish a Convention, Visitor and Tourism
Promotion Fund ("Fund") and shall deposit into this fund all proceeds of the
tax.
   (H)   Money deposited into the fund shall be expended only to promote and
encourage conventions, visitors and tourism within the county. Such
expenditures may include but are not limited to advertising, promotional
activities, trade shows, special events and recreation and may include
administrative and other incidental expenses.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-5-2017)
CHAPTER 33:  COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Use of Courthouse and Courthouse Annex
   
33.02   Jail inmate medical care
   
33.03   Veterans’ burial allowance
   
33.04   Purchasing
   
33.05   Weapons in Courthouse
   
33.06   Payment of supplemental fees to jurors
   
33.07   Highway Department purchases of supplies
   
33.08   Authorization of advance payment of certain claims
   
33.09   Local disaster emergency declaration
   
33.10   Internal Control Standards
   
33.11   Materiality Policy
   
33.12   Bulk form copies
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01  USE OF COURTHOUSE AND COURTHOUSE ANNEX.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish an orderly,
uniform and equitable policy for the regulation of the use of the Courthouse
and the Annex, including the buildings and grounds, so as to promote the safety
and welfare of the public and the employees and facilitate the efficient,
proper and cost-effective cleaning and maintenance of the building.
   (B)   Prohibition against incendiary devices/smoking on grounds. No person
shall place or use any candles, lanterns, lighters or any other incendiary
devices within the Courthouse or Annex. Any smoking on the grounds surrounding
the Courthouse or Annex shall occur in designated smoking areas only.
   (C)   Prohibition against blocking doorways, hallways and other routes
necessary for emergency exiting of the building. No person shall place
furniture, boxes or objects of any kind in hallways, interior and exterior
doorways, aisles or other areas that in any manner serve to block, obstruct,
interfere or otherwise limit or prevent employees or the public from ingress or
egress from the Courthouse, the Annex or any offices contained therein, or
interfere with the regular cleaning and maintenance of the buildings. This
section shall not apply to equipment and devices that are or will in the future
be installed at entrances to the buildings for security purposes.
   (D)   Prohibition against the presence and use of gas or electrical
appliances, extension cords or other electrical devices except in designated
area. No person shall place, or use any gas or electrical or battery powered
appliances or devices such as coffee pots, microwave ovens, grills,
refrigerators, coolers, cooking devices, electric fans or any other devices,
including electric extension cords, except in those areas specifically
designated by the Board of Commissioners; nor shall any appliances or devices
be placed, installed or used in the designated areas except those expressly
approved by the County Maintenance Superintendent (“Maintenance
Superintendent”).
   (E)   Use of walls, doors and window surfaces. No person shall use nails,
unapproved tape or other unapproved devices to affix, post or install any items
such as signs, pictures, calendars, bulletin boards, memorabilia and the like
onto the walls, doors or window surfaces of the Courthouse or Annex, or within
any offices contained therein, without the express written permission of the
Maintenance Superintendent. No person shall post, affix or install any profane,
vulgar, sexually explicit, discriminatory or offensive, or otherwise
inappropriate signs, pictures, notices or other objects on any walls, doors,
windows or other surfaces within or outside of the Courthouse building or
grounds or the Annex or grounds.
   (F)   Establishment of rules regarding use of courthouse, annex and grounds.
The Maintenance Superintendent is hereby authorized to establish other rules
and regulations related to the use of the Courthouse, the Annex and grounds as
are consistent with the purposes of this section.
   (G)   Enforcement. The Maintenance Superintendent is hereby authorized and
directed to take all actions necessary and proper to obtain enforcement of this
section and any rules and regulations related thereto. Enforcement shall
include the right of the Maintenance Superintendent to take and retain physical
possession of any appliances or devices brought into or used in the Courthouse
or Annex in violation of this section until the owner of the device exits the
buildings. In the event of repeated violations, the Maintenance Superintendent
may confiscate the device or item.
   (H)   Applicability and effective date. This section shall become in full
force and effect from and after its adoption by the Board of Commissioners and
its publication in accordance with I.C. 36-2-4-8(b) and I.C. 5-3-1.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-16-2007)  Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.02  JAIL INMATE MEDICAL CARE.
   (A)   Applicability. Division (B) shall apply to all persons confined to the
county jail who receive medical, dental, eye or any other health care related
services during such person’s period of confinement, except the following:
      (1)   A person confined to the county jail who maintains a policy from a
private company covering medical care, dental care, eye care or other health
care related service, or who is willing to pay for such person’s own medical
care; or
      (2)   A person confined to the county jail who:
         (a)   Does not have funds in the person’s commissary account or trust
account at the time the service is provided, or within 60 days after the
service is provided;
         (b)   The service is provided in an emergency;
         (c)   The services is provided as a result of an injury received in
the county jail; or
         (d)   The service is provided at the request of the Sheriff or Jail
Administrator.
   (B)   Establishment of schedule of copayments. The County Sheriff is hereby
authorized and empowered to establish and, from time to time, to amend a
schedule of inmate copayments for the provision of any medical, dental, eye, or
other health care related service. The copayment established may not exceed $15
for each service, or the maximum copayment allowable under I.C. 11-12-5-5,
whichever sum is greater. The Sheriff shall provide a copy of the schedule of
inmate copayments to the County Auditor following the establishment or
amendment of the same.
   (C)   Collection of copayments. Within 60 days from the date the services
are provided, the County Sheriff shall collect inmate copayments as provided
under this section from the commissary account or inmate trust account of the
inmate who received such services. The copayments so collected shall be
forwarded at least monthly to the County Auditor for deposit into the County
Medical Care for Inmates Fund.
   (D)   Maintenance of County Medical Care for Inmates Fund. The County
Auditor shall maintain a County Medical Care for Inmates Fund and deposit into
such funds all copayments received from inmates as the result of the provision
of medical, dental, eye or other health care related services.
   (E)   Restriction on use of Funds. The County Medical Care for Inmates Fund
shall be utilized solely to offset expenditures from the county general fund
for the provision of medical, dental, eye or other health related care provided
to inmates of the county jail.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 6-18-2002; Ord. 2011-03, passed 7-5-2011)
§ 33.03  VETERANS’ BURIAL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes, a veterans’ burial
allowance in the sum of $100, as a tribute of respect due to members of the
armed forces of the United States, who received an honorable discharge
therefrom, and who were a resident of the county at the time of death.
   (B)   The veterans’ burial allowance shall be paid for each claim submitted
by an interested person with the Board to defray the cost for services rendered
and material furnished in the care of the body or place for burial.
   (C)   Only one claim shall be allowed for any decedent who qualifies as a
veteran under I.C. 10-17-10-1 and the total sum of the claim filed and for
which allowances shall be made, shall not exceed $100.
   (D)   All claims submitted on or after 1-1-2000, shall be allowed up to the
sum.
   (E)   Any sum of money expended by the county shall be considered as a gift,
and no persons for and on behalf of the state or any of its political
subdivisions shall be authorized to file a claim for a lump sum death benefit,
with the federal social security administration claiming reimbursement for any
sum of money so expended.
   (F)   This section shall take effect immediately upon approval by this
Board.
(Ord. 2000-, passed 9-19-2000)
§ 33.04  PURCHASING.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SERVICES. The furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a person, not
involving the delivery of specific supplies other than printed documents or
other items that are merely incidental to the required performance.
      SUPPLIES. Any property and includes equipment, goods and materials. The
term does not include an interest in real property.
   (B)   Revocation of prior ordinances. This section is hereby adopted in the
place and stead of all previous ordinances governing the purchasing policy of
Greene County, Indiana.
   (C)   Designation of Purchasing Agent. The Board of Commissioners hereby
determines that it is the Purchasing Agent for Greene County, Indiana, for all
purchases.
   (D)   Appointment of additional purchasing agents. For purchases of supplies
or services having a value of $1,500 or less ("qualified purchases"), the
following persons are hereby designated as a purchasing agent for qualified
purchases for the specific offices such persons serve:
      (1)   All elected officials for the offices for which they were elected;
      (2)   The following supervisors for the offices they serve: the Highway
Superintendent, the Building Superintendent, the Emergency Medical Services
Director, the Emergency Management Director, and Health Department Nurse.
   (E)   Rules for purchases. All purchases made by the county shall follow the
rules set forth in this division.
      (1)   Elected officials and supervisors authorized to make qualified
purchases shall solicit a minimum of two quotes in writing from vendors known
to deal in such supplies or services.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners may utilize any method for purchasing
supplies and services which is consistent with the provisions of I.C. 5-22.
      (3)   With respect to supplies, pursuant to I.C. 5-22-15-21, the
Purchasing Agent shall purchase supplies manufactured in the United States
unless the Purchasing Agent determines that:
         (a)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonable available quantities;
         (b)   The price of supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured outside the United States;
         (c)   The quality of supplies is substantially less than the quality
of comparably priced available supplies manufactured outside the United States;
or
         (d)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is
not in the public interest.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 12-6-2016)
§ 33.05  WEAPONS IN COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to re-establish an Office of
Courthouse Security and to establish and implement orderly, uniform and
equitable policies related to the possession of weapons and the safety and
security of employees and the general public who may work in or enter the
Courthouse.
   (B)   Re-Establishment of Office of Courthouse Security. There is hereby
established an Office of Courthouse Security ("Security Office”). The Security
Office shall be under the direct administration and control of the Greene
County Sheriff. The Sheriff shall be responsible for the hiring and discharge
of such Courthouse Security Officers ("Security Personnel") as Sheriff, in
consultation with the Board of Commissioners and the Greene County Council,
shall determine are necessary to provide for the safety and security of persons
and property within the Courthouse and Courthouse Grounds. All Security
Personnel shall be deputized and have arrest powers.
   (C)   Duties of Sheriff. The Sheriff shall be generally responsible for the
direct supervision of Security Personnel, for the establishment and
implementation of standard policies and procedures with respect to the safety
and protection of persons and property in the Courthouse and Courthouse
Grounds, and for the establishment and implementation of such additional rules
and regulations consistent with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Consent to Search and Inspection of Property. All persons who enter
the Courthouse, by their request to enter, consent to a search of their persons
and the inspection of any package, briefcase, purse, or other container which
the entering person carries or seeks to bring into the Courthouse.
   (E)   Definition of Weapon. As used in this section, WEAPON includes, but is
not limited to any of the following:
      (1)   "Club" is given its ordinary meaning and shall include any object
that can be used to inflict blunt trauma or threaten or cause injury to persons
or property;
      (2)   "Deadly weapon" has the meaning as defined by I.C. 35-31.5-2-85;
      (3)   "Electric stun weapon" has the meaning as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-
1;
      (4)   "Explosive" means any agent, chemical compound, substance or
mechanical system tending to explode or capable of exploding, and shall include
but not be limited to gunpowder and dynamite;
      (5)   "Firearm" has the meaning as defined by I.C. 35-47-1-5;
      (6)   "Knife" is given its ordinary meaning and shall include any sharp,
pointed object that can be used to cut or puncture;
      (7)   "Stun gun" has the meaning as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-2;
      (8)   "Taser" has the meaning as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-3;
      (9)   Any other object that in the manner in which it is used, or could
ordinarily be used, or is intended to be used, is readily capable of causing
serious bodily injury as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-292, as determined by
Security Personnel.
   (F)   Prohibition against Weapons. Except as provided in division (G) of
this section, no person shall possess a weapon on or about his or her person or
within any case, container or other object within the control of such person
when such person is within the Courthouse. Any person refusing to comply with
this section will be denied entrance into the Courthouse. This section shall be
interpreted as consistent with I.C. 35-47-11.1(2),(3), and (4).
   (G)   Persons Exempt from the Possession of Weapons.
      (1)   The following persons are exempt from the prohibition with respect
to weapons contained in this section:
         (a)   Law enforcement officers as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-185, who
are in the Courthouse for official business;
         (b)   Indiana Department of Corrections Officers, Community
Corrections officers, judges and probation officers who are in the Courthouse
for official business and duly authorized to carry deadly weapons.
      (2)   The persons identified in this division as exempt shall not be
exempt if such person or any member of such person's family is a party to any
legal proceedings taking place in the Courthouse. Notwithstanding the above, no
person shall possess a firearm inside a Courtroom or Court Chambers without the
knowledge and approval of the presiding Judge.
   (H)   Prohibition of Alcohol and Controlled Substances. Except as
hereinafter provided, no person shall possess alcohol or any controlled
substances without a valid prescription on or about his or her person or within
any case, container or other package within the control of such person when
such person is within or seeks entry into the Courthouse. This division shall
not prevent law enforcement officers, prosecutors, or other authorized persons
from bringing prohibited items into the Courthouse when such items constitute
evidence to be introduced in legal proceedings, or for some other legitimate
purpose.
   (I)   Persons Subject to Search. Except as otherwise provided in division
(J) of this section, no person shall enter the Courthouse unless such person
shall first submit to such screening and/or search procedures as shall be
directed by Security Personnel.
   (J)   Issuance of Photo Identification Badges.
      (1)   The following persons shall be issued photo identification badges
at the expense of the County:
         (a)   Elected members of the Greene County Board of Commissioners and
Greene County Council;
         (b)   Greene County judges and their staff;
         (c)   The Prosecuting Attorney and Deputy Prosecuting Attorneys of
Greene County and their staff;
         (d)   The Chief Public Defender and staff of the Public Defender's
Office, and attorneys under contract with the Greene County Public Defenders'
Board;
         (e)   All elected or appointed county officials who have offices in
the Greene County Courthouse and their employees;
         (f)   All elected or appointed officials of any county boards or
commissions who have occasion to frequent the Courthouse; and
         (g)   Any other persons who because of the nature of their position or
employment regularly frequent the Courthouse because of such position or
employment.
      (2)   The Security Office shall maintain a list of all persons issued a
county photo identification badge.
   (K)   Persons Exempted from Search. All persons issued county photo
identification badges shall be exempted from search if such identification
badge is visible at the time such person seeks entry into the Courthouse. If
the identification badge is not visible, such person shall first submit to such
screening and/or search procedures as shall be directed by Security Personnel.
   (L)   Removal of Disorderly or Disruptive Persons from the Courthouse and
Courthouse Grounds. Any person who is intoxicated, disorderly, or who engages
in disruptive, offensive, or violent behavior, or whose behavior gives rise to
a reasonable suspicion that such person may be intoxicated, or engage in
disorderly, offensive, or violent behavior, may be denied entry to, or removed
from, the Courthouse and/or Courthouse Grounds by Security Personnel.
   (M)   Emergencies. In the event of an emergency, all persons in the
Courthouse shall follow the directives of Security Personnel, including the
directive to vacate the Courthouse.
   (N)   Enforcement of this section. The Sheriff is hereby authorized and
directed to take all actions necessary and proper to obtain enforcement of this
section and any such rules and regulations related thereto. Enforcement shall
include the right of Security Personnel to take and retain physical possession
of any weapons or other prohibited items in violation of this section until the
owner of such weapons or prohibited items exits the Courthouse and/or
Courthouse Grounds. Any person violating this section shall also be subject to
having any weapons or prohibited item confiscated by Security Personnel.
   (O)   Applicability and Effective Date. This section shall become in full
force and effect from and after its adoption by the Board of Commissioners and
its publication in accordance with I.C. 36-2-4-8(b) and I.C. 5-3-1.
   (P)   Interpretation. This section shall not be interpreted to supersede,
limit, or affect the rightful exercise of authority by the Sheriff of Greene
County, Indiana, or law enforcement personnel under the authority of the
Sheriff, in carrying out the statutory duties and functions of the Sheriff as
an officer of the Greene County Circuit and Superior Courts.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-2-2013)  Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06  PAYMENT OF SUPPLEMENTAL FEES TO JURORS.
   (A)   Jurors of the Circuit Court, the Superior Court, the County Court and
members of a grand jury shall be paid supplemental fees as hereafter set forth,
in addition to the fees prescribed by I.C. 33-37-10-1.
   (B)   The supplemental fee to be paid a juror shall be $10 for each day the
juror is in actual attendance in court until the jury is impaneled and $17.50
for each day the juror is in actual attendance after impaneling and until the
jury is discharged.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 33.07  HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT PURCHASES OF SUPPLIES.
   (A)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OFFER.  A response to a solicitation and includes a bid, proposal and
quote.
      PURCHASING AGENT.  An individual authorized by the Board of Commissioners
to act as agent for the County Highway Department in the administration of the
duties of the Board of Commissioners.
      SOLICITATION.  The procedure by which the Purchasing Agent shall invite
persons to submit an offer to enter into a contract with the county, for the
purchase of supplies related to the operation of the Highway Department and
includes an invitation for bids, a request for proposals or a request for
quotes.
      SUPPLIES.  Any property, except for real estate, and includes equipment,
goods and materials.
   (B)   Designation of Purchasing Agent. The County Highway Superintendent is
hereby designated as the county’s Purchasing Agent for the purchase of supplies
necessary for the maintenance of county roadways and the operation of the
County Highway Department.
   (C)   Vendor list. The Highway Superintendent shall compile and maintain a
list of vendors by category known to engage in the sale of the various types of
supplies utilized in the operation of the County Highway Department. Any vendor
who wishes to be added or deleted from the vendor list may submit such request
to the Highway Superintendent.
   (D)   Purchasing procedure. In accordance with I.C. 5-22-8, the Highway
Superintendent is authorized to make any purchase of supplies in connection
with the operation of the County Highway Department which the Purchasing Agent
expects to be less than $50,000 upon compliance with the following procedure:
      (1)   The Highway Superintendent shall solicit by written invitation,
telephone, fax or electronic mail offers from at least two vendors regularly
engaged in the sale of the type of supplies for which the solicitation is being
made; and
      (2)   Upon the receipt of written confirmation of at least two offers,
the Highway Superintendent shall contract to purchase the supplies from the
vendor who submits the best offer, determined by taking into account the price,
availability, delivery schedule and quality of the supplies, as well the
reliability and past history of the vendor with the county.
   (E)   Maintenance of records. The Purchasing Agent shall maintain a record
of the solicitations issued and offers received as a regular part of the
business records of the County Highway Department.
   (F)   Division of bids prohibited. In compliance with I.C. 5-22-8-l(b), the
Highway Superintendent may not artificially divide purchase requirements so as
to constitute a small purchase under this section.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 11-21-2011)
§ 33.08  AUTHORIZATION OF ADVANCE PAYMENT OF CERTAIN CLAIMS.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the County Auditor to make
claim payments in advance of Board allowance for the following kinds of
expenses:
   (A)   License or permit fees;
   (B)   Insurance premiums;
   (C)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
   (D)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and the
contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
   (E)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
   (F)   Maintenance or services agreements;
   (G)   Leases or rental agreements;
   (H)   Bond or coupon payments;
   (I)   Payroll; and
   (J)   State or federal taxes;
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 33.09  LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY DECLARATION.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the Local Disaster Emergency
Declaration Ordinance of the county and shall apply to all roads, highways or
right-of-way maintained by the county highway department (“roads”). The
mandatory provisions of this section and of any local disaster emergency issued
pursuant to this section, including the prohibitions on travel and the
penalties for violating those prohibitions shall not apply to streets
maintained by a city or town within the county nor to a state highway
maintained by the Indiana Department of Transportation nor to a federal
interstate highway situated within the county.
   (B)   Declaration of local disaster emergency.
      (1)   After consultation with the Sheriff and the County Highway
Superintendent, if such persons are available, the Board of Commissioners may
declare a local disaster emergency which may also contain a “warning level”
travel advisory by executive order when, in the Board’s judgment, such order
would be appropriate under I.C. 10-14-3-29 and in the best interest of the
public safety and welfare of the residents of the county.
      (2)   If only one member of the Board is available to sign the
declaration of local disaster emergency, he or she can declare a local disaster
emergency if he or she has obtained and documented the verbal or written
concurrence of at least one other Board member. If only one member of the Board
can be reached, then the member may declare a local disaster emergency. If none
of the members of the Board is available, then the Principal Executive Officer
as defined in Chapter 31 and by statute with respect to the line of succession
shall be authorized to make such declaration.
      (3)   If, with or without the issuance of a declaration of local disaster
emergency, the Board determines that conditions require an “advisory” or
“watch” level of travel advisory, the Board, by majority rule, or the Principal
Executive Officer, of no Board members are available, may issue and “advisory”
or a “watch” travel advisory.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29.5, a “warning” level travel advisory
may be issued only after or as a part of a declaration of local disaster
emergency. The emergency shall continue in effect until the Board members and/
or the Principal Executive Officer or their respective designees who declared
the emergency thereafter determine an emergency no longer exists and terminate
the emergency order.
      (5)   The Board may declare a “warning” level travel advisory upon its
determination that the conditions are appropriate for the issuance of a local
disaster emergency under I.C. 10-14-3-29, and the further determination that
the criteria set forth in division (C), have been met.
   (C)   Local travel advisories. A local travel advisory shall be declared in
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-29.5 and this section. The purpose of a local
travel advisory is to keep the residents of the county informed of the weather
and county road conditions, and to assist County Highway Department in the
clearing of the county roadways by eliminating stranded vehicles. The following
travel advisory levels may be declared:
      (1)   Advisory level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
routine travel or activities may be restricted in areas of the county because
of a hazardous situation; citizens should use caution or avoid these areas.
Schools and businesses may begin to implement their emergency action plans.
      (2)   Watch level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
conditions are threatening to the safety of the public. Only essential travel
is recommended (such as , to and from work, emergency situations, and the
like). At this level, emergency action plans should be implemented by
businesses, schools, government agencies and other organizations.
      (3)   Warning level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
roads have become impassable and the County Highway Department is not able to
keep the roadways cleared due to extreme weather conditions such as a severe
snow fall, high drifts or blizzard like conditions are present. Travel may be
restricted to emergency management workers only and essential emergency travel
by members of the public as the Board may further direct, such as privately
employed health care workers. Further restrictions that the Board deems
necessary may be included within the local disaster declaration.
   (D)   Publication. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing or
terminating a local disaster emergency shall be given prompt and general
publicity and shall be filed promptly in the office of the county pursuant to
I.C. 10-14-3-22(b)(2). Publication and broadcast of an advisory, watch or
warning level travel advisory shall be made or caused to be made by the Board
or other officials designating the level of travel advisory using a press
release to all law enforcement agencies fire departments, hospitals and news
media in the county. The declaration shall be promptly forwarded to the Indiana
Department of Homeland Security and shall be kept on file by the County
Emergency Management Agency/ Department of Homeland Security, County Clerk and
County Auditor.
   (E)   Exemptions from travel restrictions. Vehicles which shall be exempt
from the travel and parking restrictions imposed in a travel advisory pursuant
to this section shall include medical assistance, law enforcement, fire
department, emergency management, public utility and fuel hauling vehicles, and
employees of any of the above exempt services, if engaged in performing their
respective duties. Any other vehicles violating this section or any of the
parking restrictions contained in local declaration of disaster emergency or a
“warning” travel advisory are subject to removal by towing or other means at
the expense of the owner of the vehicle, when such towing and/or removal is
deemed necessary by a duly authorized representative of any one or more of the
following: the County Highway Department, the County Sheriff’s Department, a
State Conservation Officer or the Indiana State Police.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 12-17-2012) Penalty, see §
33.99
Cross-reference:
   Emergency management, see
Ch. 31
§ 33.10  INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The county hereby adopts as policy the Internal Control Standards as
set forth by the State Board of Accounts UICSIPS Manual as expressly written
and published, and incorporates and adopts any future amendments, revisions,
editions or updates made thereto.
   (B)   The County Personnel Administration Committee shall be tasked with
ensuring training is provided to all necessary personnel pursuant to this
policy and I.C. 5-11-1-27.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 33.11  MATERIALITY POLICY.
   The county hereby adopts the Materiality Policy attached to Resolution 2016-
7. The Policy, and any amendments thereto, is incorporated by reference as if
fully set forth herein.
(Res. 2016-7, passed 2-16-2016; Res. 2016-13, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 33.12  BULK FORM COPIES.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply throughout this
section:
      BULK FORM COPY. An aggregation of copies or all recorded documents
received by the Recorder for recording in a calendar day, week, month, or year
and the indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded documents
received by the Recorder for recording in a calendar day, week, month, or year,
or either of the same.
      BULK USER. An individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, or unincorporated association that received bulk form copies under a
contract with the Recorder.
      COPY. A reproduction, including an image of a recorded document or
indices created by duplicating electronically stored data onto a digital medium
or reproducing on microfilm.
      INDICES.  All of the indexing information used by the Recorder for
finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
      RECORDED DOCUMENTS.  A writing, paper, document, plat, map, survey, or
anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the public
records maintained by the Recorder or the Recorder's designee.
   (B)   Manner and form of production. It is hereby established that the
Recorder shall provide bulk form copies to a bulk user only by electronically
transmitting digital copies.
   (C)   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies.
      (1)   A bulk user must submit a written request to the Recorder that
identifies the requested bulk form copies with reasonable particularity. Unless
the request is refused under division (F), below, upon receipt of a valid
written request to the Recorder or its designee, it shall provide the bulk
copies to the bulk user digitally.
      (2)   The bulk form copies shall be provided within a reasonable time
after the later of the following occurs: the Recorder's archival process is
completed and bulk form copies become available in the Recorder's Office, or
the bulk form user executes a contract that meets the requirements of division
(E) with the Recorder, and if the Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk
copy services, the Recorder's designee. The Recorder or its designee shall work
with reasonable diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produced
to the bulk user.
   (D)   Fees charged for bulk form copies. Based upon information provided by
Recorder, the Board adopts the following fee schedule:
      (1)   Twenty Cents ($0.20) per page of recorded documents.
      (2)   Twenty Cents ($0.20) per recorded document for a copy of the
indices used by the Recorder for finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded
document.
   (E)   Bulk user contract; requirement.
      (1)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the Recorder and if the
Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy services, the Recorder's
designee, in order to receive bulk form copies. The contract must be in writing
and must require that the bulk user agree not to do any of the following:
         (a)   Except as provided in division (G), provide, transfer, or allow
the transfer of any copy of a recorded document obtained by the bulk user under
this section to a third party;
         (b)   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents; or
         (c)   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
      (2)   A contract required under this section may not include any
restrictions on a bulk form user's use of the bulk form copies other than those
contained in this section.
   (F)   Bulk user contract; termination. If a bulk user does not comply with
the contract, the Recorder may terminate the contract, immediately stop
providing bulk form copies to the bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk
form copies required by the bulk user if all termination provisions and
procedures in the contract have been met by the Recorder. The County Recorder
may refuse subsequent requests from a bulk user for bulk form copies in the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk form copy
contract terminated by the County Recorder because the Recorder determined that
the bulk user failed to comply with the contract; or
      (2)   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest, the person requested
bulk form copies under a previous contract with the Recorder, and the contract
was terminated by the Recorder because the Recorder determined that the person
failed to comply with the contract.
   (G)   Resale of bulk form copies by bulk user.
      (1)   A bulk user that is licensed under I.C. 27-1-15.6-6(d) or holds a
certificate of authority under IC 27-7-3-6 may provide copies of documents
obtained in bulk form and related to a title search (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-
2) when operating as a title plant for the issuance of title insurance or a
title company (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2).
      (2)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of this section may charge
its customers a fee for using the bulk form copies obtained by the bulk user
that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk user for obtaining the bulk
form copies. A bulk user that meets the requirements of this section may not
resell, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded
document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies or images, to any other
bulk user or title plant.
      (3)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of this section is
prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising for sale, soliciting a
purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing subscription service to or
otherwise transferring, providing, or allowing the transfer of bulk form copies
for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies are in bulk form
or individual copies or images.
   (H)   Enhanced access not affected. This section does not apply to enhanced
access authorized under I.C. 5-14-3-3 and any Greene County Ordinances
promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-20-2016; Ord. 2017-03, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates any provision of §
33.01 commits a Class A ordinance violation and may be liable for any damages
caused to the building and grounds as a result of the violation, and in
addition, may be fined up to the sum of $500 per violation.
      (2)   A person who is found to have violated any provision of §
33.01 a second time within one year of a previous violation may be fined up to
the sum of $1,000.
      (3)   Any person found to have violated any provision of §
33.01 shall, in addition to any fines or damages assessed, be liable for all
reasonable attorney fees incurred by the county in obtaining enforcement of §
33.01.
   (C)   Penalties for violations.
      (1)   A person who violates any provision of §
33.05 commits a Class "A" Violation and shall be fined an amount not less than
$250 and not more than $2,500 per violation.
      (2)   A person who is found to have violated any provision of §
33.05 a second time within one year of a previous violation shall be fined a
sum of not less than $500 and not more than $7,500.
      (3)   Any person found to have violated any provision of §
33.05 shall, in addition to any fines or damages assessed, be liable for all
reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred by the county in obtaining
enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-16-2007; Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-2-2013)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 50:  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Section
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   General requirements
   
50.04   Permits for installation, alteration, repair, or addition
   
50.05   Permits and inspections
   
50.06   Approved installers
   
50.07   Installation, construction, maintenance, operation, and repair
requirements
   
50.08   Prohibited acts
   
50.09   Violations; investigation; corrective action
   
50.10   Enforcement procedure; hearings
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter regulates the construction, maintenance, and operation of
private sewage disposal systems and provides penalties for violation of these
regulations. In addition, the Indiana State Board of Health rule 410 I.A.C. 6-
8.1 is adopted by reference.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 5-6-1992)
§ 50.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.  This chapter shall be administered by the Greene
County Board of Health through its Health Officer and his or her authorized
representatives.
   BUILDING SITES.  All areas, regardless of acreage, situated within Greene
County, upon which are located residential, business, recreational, or other
buildings.
   DWELLING.  Any house or place used or intended to be used as a place of
seasonal or permanent human habitation or for sleeping for one or more
families.
   FLOOD PLAIN.  That area so designated on the Federal Flood Insurance Rate
Maps, those designated areas determined by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, or those designated areas determined by the Greene County Health
Department, to be within the contours defined as the 100-year flood.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  The Greene County Health Department, which is the full
time county health department and includes the Greene County Board of Health,
the Greene County Health Officer, and authorized representatives of the Health
Officer.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The County Health Officer or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   HOLDING TANK.  A self-contained, leak proof, watertight reservoir used for
the purposes of collection and temporary storage of sewage wastes prior to
proper disposal at an approved disposal facility (for example, a municipal
sewage treatment plant) by a State Department of Health licensed septic tank
cleaner.
   MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING UNIT.  A duplex, triples, or quadriplex. More than
four separate living units are considered an apartment building and do not fall
under this definition.
   OWNER.  That person or his or her agent reported as the legal possessor of a
dwelling or property.
   PERMIT.  A written document issued by the Health Department authorizing a
person to install, construct, maintain, alter, operate, or repair a private
sewage disposal system as per an approved plan, design, and specification
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate, or any other legal entity, its or
their successors or assigns, or agents of the aforesaid.
   PLANNED COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT.  A building, structure, or grouping of
buildings or structures, constructed predominately for commercial or industrial
uses, located on a lot or group of contiguous lots held under single, joint, or
common ownership or lease.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.  A group of buildings constructed for residential
use, including approved ancillary commercial use, located on a lot or group of
contiguous lots held under single, joint, or common ownership.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM FAILURE.  A system which exhibits one or more
of the following:
      (1)   The system refuses to accept sewage at the rate of design
application thereby interfering with the normal use of plumbing fixtures;
      (2)   The effluent discharge exceeds the absorptive capacity of the soil,
resulting in ponding, seepage, or other discharge of the effluent to the ground
surface or to surface waters; or
      (3)   The effluent is discharged from the system causing contamination of
a potable water supply, ground water, or surface waters.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  Any conduit for sewage constructed, installed, maintained,
operated, owned, or defined as such by a municipality, taxing district, or a
corporation or organization possessing a Certificate of Territorial Authority
issued by the Indiana Public Service Commission and established for that
purpose. A system of conduits installed for the purpose of carrying surface
water runoff and subsoil drainage shall not be considered a public sewer under
this definition.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  Any sewage disposal system not constructed,
installed, maintained, operated, and owned by a municipality, a taxing
district, or a corporation or organization possessing a Certificate of
Territorial Authority issued by the Indiana Public Service Commission and
established for that purpose.
   RISER.  A vertical port of cylindrical concrete 20 to 24 inches in diameter
extending to the ground surface with a gas tight seal.
   SANITARY PRIVY.  A fly-tight, rodent proof privy for the disposal of body
waste as presented in State Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 11, and
amendments thereto, except that the pit or vault shall be an approved septic
tank with the outlet sealed.
   SEPTIC TANK ABSORPTION FIELD SYSTEM.  Includes the sewer from the house to
the septic tank, the septic tank, the septic tank effluent sewer, the pump,
pump tank and related items as may be required, the distribution box(es), and
the underground absorption seepage lines.
   SEWAGE.  The water-carried waste derived from ordinary living processes,
including, but not limited to, human excrete and waste water derived from water
closets, urinals, laundries, sinks, utensil washing machines, bathing
facilities, or similar facilities or appliances.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
receiving, treating, disposing, or storing of sewage.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage.
   SOIL INVENTORY AND EVALUATION REPORT.  The written report of a soil
scientist giving characteristics and qualities of the soil that affect the
suitability for absorbing waste from private sewage disposal systems,
including, but not limited to, soil permeability, soil loading rate,
percolation rate, ground water level, depth to bedrock, flooding hazards, and
slope.
   SOIL LOADING RATE.  The allowable rate of application of septic tank
effluent to the soil expressed in gallons per day per square foot of trench
bottom area.
   SOIL SCIENTIST.  An individual qualified, as determined by the Indiana State
Department of Health, to characterize the qualities of the soil that affect the
suitability for absorbing waste from private onsite sewage disposal systems and
to properly prepare the appropriate SOIL INVENTORY AND EVALUATION REPORT.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 5-6-1992)
§ 50.03  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall throw, run, drain, seep, or otherwise dispose of; or
cause, permit, or suffer to be thrown, run, drained, allowed to seep, or
otherwise disposed of into any of the surface waters or ground waters of this
state; or in an insanitary manner upon public or private property within Greene
County; or in any area under the jurisdiction of Greene County; any organic
matter that would cause or contribute to a health hazard on such property
unless a permit for such disposal has been obtained from the Indiana Department
of Environmental Management.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer comes within 300 feet of any house,
building, or structure used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purpose and served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct
connection to the public sewer shall be required should the existing system
fail or constitute a health hazard. The system repositories shall be abandoned
and filled with suitable granular material, and the house, building, or
structure shall be connected to the public sanitary sewer within 90 days after
the official notice to do so from the Health Department.
   (C)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, all
persons owning or leasing property shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter for private sewage disposal systems.
   (D)   The design, construction, installation, location, maintenance, and
operation of private sewage disposal systems shall comply with the provisions
of this chapter and the standards of the Indiana State Department of Health
rules 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 and 6-10.
   (E)   Should any defects exist or occur in any private sewage disposal
system which would cause said sewage disposal system to fail and cause an
insanitary condition, the defect shall be corrected by the owner or agent of
the owner, or by the occupant or agent of the occupant. Failure to comply with
said correction is subject to the penalties as prescribed.
   (F)   If any conditions preclude the installation of a sewage disposal
system as described in this chapter, the Greene County Health Department may
approve the use of whatever alternative sewage disposal system is deemed
appropriate, only under the provisions cited in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1-31.
   (G)   No portion of the private sewage disposal system or its associated
drainage system shall be constructed upon property other than that from which
the sewage originates, unless easements, which grant permission for such
construction and access for system maintenance, have been obtained for that
property and have been legally approved and recorded by the proper authority or
commission.
   (H)   Any dwelling which is not connected, or cannot be connected to a
sanitary sewerage system, and which does not utilize a sanitary privy for its
residential sewage disposal system, shall be provided with a residential sewage
disposal system which includes a septic tank and a soil absorption system that
has not failed.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 5-6-1992)
§ 50.04  PERMITS FOR INSTALLATION, ALTERATION, REPAIR, OR ADDITION.
   (A)   No person shall install or cause to be installed a private sewage
disposal system or privy, or alter, repair, or add to an existing private
sewage disposal system without first obtaining a permit from the Health
Department.
   (B)   Any deviation from the original permit as approved must be authorized
in advance by the Health Department. Failure to do so and/or to follow the
original permit installation conditions constitutes a violation.
   (C)   The application for such permit shall be made on a form provided by
the Health Department and shall be supplemented by any plans, specification,
and other information as is deemed necessary by the Health Department.
   (D)   A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the Health Department at
the time the application is filed.
   (E)   A permit issued for a private sewage disposal system or privy shall
not become valid until the installation is completed in compliance with the
standards set forth in this chapter and its incorporated references, and in the
proposed design of the system, which must receive preliminary approval from the
Health Department, and until the permit card is signed by the Health Officer or
his or her duly appointed representative.
   (F)   The Health Department shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and the applicant for the permit and/or the installer
shall notify the Health Department 48 hours prior to work being ready for final
inspection. The inspection and determination shall be made within two days of
the receipt of notice by the Health Department and shall be completed before
any underground portions of a system are covered, except in the case of
extenuating circumstances as determined by the Health Department.
   (G)   Any installation which is covered without authorization from or
inspected by the Health Department must be uncovered for a final inspection
prior to approval being given for the work.
   (H)   The permit issued for a private sewage disposal system shall be posted
in a conspicuous place at or near the building where the private sewage
disposal system is under construction. The notice should be plainly visible
from the public thoroughfare serving the building.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 5-6-1992)
§ 50.05  PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Prior to construction of any building or private residence where a
private sewage disposal system is to be installed, or prior to any replacement,
reinspection, expansion, or remodeling of a residence which may increase the
number of bedrooms or bedroom equivalents and any addition to, alteration of,
or repair of an existing sewage disposal system, the owner or agent of the
owner shall obtain a written construction permit signed by the Health Officer.
The application for such a construction permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Greene County Health Department which application shall contain
information outlined in § 48 of the Indiana State Department of Health rule 410
I.A.C. 6-8.1, the profile analysis of all the soils in which the system is to
be constructed, an any other information deemed necessary by the Health
Officer. A construction permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the Greene
County Health Department at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   The permittee shall notify the Greene County Health Department when
the work is ready for final inspection, and at least 48 hours or two working
days before any underground portions are covered. The provisions of the permit
for the construction of a private sewage disposal system shall not be
considered fulfilled until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of
the Health Officer or his or her representative who will confirm that approval
for the permit for usage of the system.
   (C)   The Health Officer or his or her agent shall be permitted to enter
upon all properties at any state of construction for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing necessary to assure compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 5-6-1992)
§ 50.06  APPROVED INSTALLERS.
   (A)   Any person engaged in or intending to engage in the installation,
construction, or repair of sewage disposal systems or equipment shall make an
application to the Greene County Health Officer to have his or her name placed
on the register of those engaged in the installation, construction, and repair
of sewage disposal systems or equipment. The application form shall contain the
name and address of the applicant or firm represented by the applicant, and
such other information as the Greene County Health Officer may reasonably
require to aid him or her in the administration and enforcement of these
regulations, or to help him or her determine whether there is any reason why
the Health Officer should not approve the applicant’s request to be placed on
the register.
   (B)   Any person making application to have his or her name place on the
register shall demonstrate their knowledge of all applicable portions of this
code, and any and all applicable regulations related to the design,
installation, construction, and repair of sewage disposal systems or equipment,
and all applicable state rules and regulations. Such demonstration shall be
made in the form of the successful completion of an examination covering these
topics. The form and content of the examination shall be determined by the
Greene County Health Officer or his or her designated representative.
   (C)   The Greene County Health Officer, or his or her designated
representative, may remove the name of any person from the register who has
demonstrated an inability or unwillingness to comply with these regulations.
The Health Officer, or his or her designated representative, must first give
such person written notice of his or her intention to take such action, and the
reason(s) for such action. The affected person has a right to a hearing before
the Health Officer, or his or her designated representative, if the person
makes written request to the Health Officer within ten days of the receipt of
this notice. The person may appeal an adverse decision to the Health Board by
sending written notice of appeal to the Health Officer within ten days of
receipt of the Health Officer’s decision. All notices whether by the Health
Officer, his or her designated representative, or the affected person, must be
delivered in person or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. In all
cases, a receipt must be obtained that indicates the date and to whom the
notice was delivered. Once removed, such person may not engage in the
installation, construction, or repair of any sewage disposal system or
equipment in Greene County until such person applies to have his or her name
reinstated on said register by the Health Officer, satisfactorily demonstrates
his or her ability and willingness to comply with these regulations, and posts
a surety bond with the Greene County Board of Health, State of Indiana, with
the surety acceptable to the Board, in the penal sum of not less than $5,000 in
favor of the Greene County Board of Health, conditioned upon registrant’s
faithful compliance with this chapter and with rules and regulations which may
from time to time be established by the Greene County Board of Health relating
to the installation of sewage disposal devices or equipment.
   (D)   A list of the currently registered installers in Greene County will be
supplied, upon request, to the applicant for an onsite sewage disposal system
permit.
   (E)   Any person desiring to install, construct, or repair any sewage
disposal system or equipment on property owned by said officer provided said
person can satisfactorily pass a written open book examination covering all
aspects of system or equipment installation, construction, or repair prior to
the installation or repair. A fee for such activity will be collected.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 5-6-1992)
§ 50.07  INSTALLATION, CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, OPERATION, AND REPAIR
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   At any business or recreational building that is not intended for use
as a one- or two-family dwelling that is situated within Greene County where
there is installed a private sewage disposal system  that is not connected to a
public sewer system, and no public sewer system is available, there shall be
established, installed, constructed, maintained, operated, and, if necessary,
repaired a private sewage disposal system that shall comply with the standards
of the state Department of Health regulations as contained in Bulletin S.E. 13,
and amendments thereto, or in such other manner as approved by the state
Department of Health. Bulletin S.E. 13 is incorporated by reference as part of
this section, and two copies are filed in the office of the County Auditor and
the Health Department for public inspection.
   (B)   Any business or commercial building which is to be served by an onsite
sewage disposal system shall obtain the approval for such from the state
Department of Health and the Greene County Health Department.
   (C)   All private, one- or two-family dwelling onsite sewage disposal
systems shall be installed, constructed, maintained, operated, and, if
necessary, repaired in an approved manner as described in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1, and
amendments thereto, of the state Department of Health and in the regulations of
the Health Department, and amendments thereto. These rules and regulations are
incorporated by reference as a part of this chapter, and two copies are filed
in the office of the County Auditor and Health Department for public
inspection.
   (D)   All multiple-family dwelling units in the county are required to have
each separate dwelling portion or unit served by a separate sewage disposal
system.
   (E)   Any privy situated within Greene County shall be of the sanitary type,
shall be installed, constructed, operated, and, if necessary, repaired so that
insects and rodents cannot enter the vault, and shall be maintained in clean
condition. Any privy shall be so located as to avoid contamination of water
supplies. The installation, construction, maintenance, operation, and repair of
such privies shall be as described by Bulletin S.E. 11, and amendments thereto,
of the state Department of Health, with the secretion that the pit or vault
shall be an approved septic tank with the outlet sealed. These rules and
regulations are incorporated by reference as a part of this chapter, and two
copies are filed in the office of the County Auditor and the Health Department
for public inspection.
   (F)   Privies may not be utilized for wash, bath, kitchen, or other waste
water disposal (“grey water”).
   (G)   The installation of any private sewage disposal system not described
in state Department of Health rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1, Bulletin S.E. 11, Bulletin
S.E. 13, and amendments thereto, or in the regulations of the Greene County
Health Department, and amendments thereto, may be approved by the Greene County
Board of Health. Plans and specifications for any such alternative private
onsite sewage disposal system must bear the written approval of the state
Department of Health. Should such experimental system cause or create any
present or future public health hazard or nuisance as determined by the Health
Department, a septic tank absorption field system, or other suitable system as
defined, shall upon order of the Health Department be installed to replace such
experimental system within 90 days after official notice to do so from the
Health Department.
   (H)   Septic tanks shall have minimum capacity below the water line of at
least 1,000 gallons.
   (I)   Absorption trench sizing requirements listed in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 will
be considered minimum size requirements and will be adapted accordingly to
Greene County soils.
   (J)   (1)   Absorption fields shall not be located within 35 feet of any
slope greater than 15%. A variance to this requirement may be granted by the
Greene County Health Board, in its sole discretion, if the applicant:
         (a)   Makes the variance request in writing;
         (b)   Presents clear and convincing evidence that special conditions
warrant such a variance; and
         (c)   Presents clear and convincing evidence that the variance, if
granted, will present no significant risk that sewage will flow offsite,
pollute groundwater, or create a health hazard.
      (2)   Cost of installation or maintenance will not, in and of itself,
constitute a special condition justifying a variance.
   (K)   Perimeter drainage tile exits require rodent “varmint” guards and a
construction design that protects the drainage tiles from future collapse.
   (L)   Low flow or volume toilets requiring less than three and one-half
gallons (water conserving) must be installed in any new house or business
falling under this chapter.
   (M)   Garbage grinders or disposers shall not be installed in a dwelling
served by a private sewage disposal system unless the system contains a
properly installed multiple compartment septic tank.
   (N)   A concrete riser shall be installed around the lid of a septic tank
and brought up to ground level.
   (O)   Holding tanks may only be approved for installation where absorption
field repairs cannot be made or on a temporary basis (as approved by the Board)
pending hookup to the sanitary sewer.
   (P)   The Health Department, through the Health Board, shall have the right
to promulgate reasonable rules and regulations for its own guidance as may be
deemed necessary or desirable to protect, promote, or improve public health or
to control disease, not in connection with any provision contained in this
chapter, or any regulation promulgated from time to time by either the Indiana
Legislature or the State Department of Health.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 5-6-1992)
§ 50.08  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit any
human excrement or sewage to be deposited in an insanitary manner upon public
or private property within Greene County, or in any area under the jurisdiction
of Greene County.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to install a private sewage disposal system in
any area defined by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources as a flood
plain.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or occupy a dwelling not served by a
public or private sewage disposal system.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to interfere with the Health Department in the
performance of its duties.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to commit undue harassment of Health Department
inspectors in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 5-6-1992)
§ 50.09  VIOLATIONS; INVESTIGATION; CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   (A)   The Health Department may enter upon and inspect private or public
property, at proper times, in regard to the possible presence, source, or cause
of disease or any suspected violation of this chapter, or section of the state
Department of Health rules 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1, 410 I.A.C. 6-10, Bulletin S.E. 11,
or Bulletin S.E. 13.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter may be
served by the Health Department with a written order stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for satisfactory correction
thereof.
   (C)   After receiving an order in writing from the Health Department, the
owner, the agent of the owner, the occupant, or the agent of the occupant of
the property shall comply with the provisions of this chapter as set forth in
such order within the time limit included therein. The order shall be served on
the owner, the owner and the occupant, or the agent of the owner or occupant,
but may be served on any person who by contract with the owner has assumed the
duty of complying with the provisions of an order.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 5-6-1992)
§ 50.10  ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of this chapter shall immediately
be subject to the penalties set forth herein and must abandon said system until
all materials and procedures used in construction are  proved to meet all
requirements of this chapter. Only then would a construction permit be issued.
Any person found to be in violation of any other provision of this chapter
shall be served by the Health Officer with a written order stating the nature
of the violation and providing a time limit for satisfactory correction
thereof.
   (B)   After receiving an order in writing from the Greene County Health
Department, the owner of the property shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter as set forth in the order and within the time limit specified therein.
Said order shall be served on the owner or the agent of the owner but may be
served on any person who, by contract with the owner, has assumed the duty of
complying with the provisions of the order.
   (C)   Any person affected by any such order issued by the Health Officer or
his or her agent may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the Greene County Health Officer, provided that such person shall file
in the office of the Health Officer within ten days after service of the order,
a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement
of the grounds thereof. Upon receipt of the petition, the Health Officer shall
arrange a time and a place for the hearing and shall give the petitioner
written notice thereof. The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable after
the receipt of the written request. At the hearing the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity be heard and to show cause why the order should not be
obeyed.
   (D)   Depending upon the findings at the hearing, the Health Officer will
sustain, modify, or withdraw the order. Notification of that decision will
include a time limit for the correction of the problem.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 5-6-1992)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates any provision of this chapter commits an
ordinance violation, which:
      (1)   For the first violation, is a class C ordinance violation, which
carries a fine of up to $500; and
      (2)   For the second and any subsequent violation, is a class B ordinance
violation, which carries a fine of $500 to $1,000.
   (B)   Each day after the expiration of the time limit for abating insanitary
conditions or completing improvements to abate such conditions as ordered by
the Health Department, shall constitute a distinct and separate violation.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described above, the Department may seek
injunctive relief and all the remedies available in a court of equity.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described above, any person who violates
any provision of this chapter shall be liable for the costs of litigation,
including, but not limited to, attorney fees, deposition fees, the costs of
expert witnesses, lab testing expenses, and court costs.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 5-6-1992)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
         
72.   WEIGHT LIMITS ON COUNTY ROADS
         
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Registration tax
§ 70.01  REGISTRATION TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed an annual license excise surtax per vehicle
pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-4-2, imposed upon passenger vehicles, motorcycles, and
trucks with a declared gross weight that does not exceed 11,000 pounds, and
motor driven cycles, said tax being imposed and collected in lieu of a property
tax, said tax to be collected by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles at the time the
motor vehicle is registered. The rate type and rate per vehicle shall be
applied as follows:
Vehicle Amount
Vehicle                                               Amount
Rate Type (Indicate Flat or Percentage Rate)             Flat
Passenger Vehicles                                       $25.00
Motorcycles                                              $25.00
Trucks
   1-11,000 LBS                                       
(including Farm Trucks and Class B Recovery Vehicles)
   7,000 (1-7,000 LBS)                                $25.00
   9,000 (7,001-9,000 LBS)                            $25.00
   10,000 (9,001-10,000 LBS)                          $25.00
   11,000 (10,001-11,000 LBS)                         $25.00
Motor Driven Cycles                                      $25.00
 
   (B)   The Greene County Treasurer is hereby ordered and directed to deposit
surtax revenues to the "Greene County Surtax Fund" and thereafter to continue
to allocate the funds to the county, cities, and towns in accordance with I.C.
8-14-2-4(c)(1) through I.C. 8-14-2-4(c)(3); and to distribute to local units of
government pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-4-13(c). The county or city or town may only
use surtax revenues to construct, reconstruct, repair or maintain roads and
streets under its jurisdiction.
   (C)   There is hereby imposed pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-5-2 an annual wheel tax
on classes of vehicles and at rates established in division (E) of this
section, said tax to be collected by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles at the time
the motor vehicle is registered. Pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-5-4, no wheel tax shall
be levied against vehicles owned by the State of Indiana; owned by any state
agency or any political subdivision of the state; any bus owned and operated by
a religious or nonprofit youth organization and used to haul persons to
religious services or for the benefit of their members; or any vehicle subject
to the annual license excise surtax.
   (D)   The Greene County Treasurer is hereby ordered to deposit all wheel tax
revenues to the "Greene County Wheel Tax Fund" and thereafter to continue to
allocate the funds to the county, cities, and towns in accordance with I.C. 8-
14-2-4(c)(1) through I.C. 8-14-2-4(c)(3); and to distribute to local units of
government pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-5-15(c). The county or city or town may only
use wheel revenues to construct, reconstruct, repair or maintain roads and
streets under its jurisdiction.
   (E) Pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-5-2(c) and I.C. 6-3.5-5-3, the types and classes
of vehicles as described by the county shall pay annual wheel tax rates.
   (F)   On or before August 1 of each year, the Auditor shall provide the
county and each city and town in the county with an estimate of the excise
surtax revenues and wheel tax revenues to be distributed to that unit during
the next calendar year. The county, city or town shall show the estimated
excise surtax revenues and wheel tax revenues in its budget estimate for the
calendar year.
   (G)   The Auditor of Greene County is hereby ordered and directed, pursuant
to I.C. 6-3.5-4-6 and I.C. 6-3.5-5-8 to send a certified copy of this section
to the Commissioner of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 5-26-2009; Ord. 2014-03, passed 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 71:  OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Short title
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Purposes
   
71.04   Persons authorized to operate off-road vehicles on county roads
   
71.05   Insurance
   
71.06   Registration/compliance with state law
   
71.07   Restrictions on operation
   
71.08   Operation on county roads
   
71.09   Right to restrict of off-road vehicle traffic on designated county
roads
   
71.10   Enforcement
   
71.11   Applicability and effective date
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Off-Road Vehicle Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)
§ 71.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width between the boundary lines
of every way maintained by and within the jurisdiction of the county when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motor driven vehicle capable of cross county travel,
without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water, snow,
ice, marsh, swampland or other natural terrain. It includes, but is not limited
to, a multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle, amphibious  machine,
ground effect air cushion vehicle or other means of transportation driving
motive power from a source other than muscle or wind. It does not include a
farm vehicle being used for farming, a vehicle used for military or law
enforcement purposes, a construction, mining or other industrial related
vehicle used in performance of its common function, a snowmobile, or a
registered aircraft and does not include any other vehicle properly registered
by the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and any water craft which is registered
pursuant to state statutes.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and to be in actual physical control of the
operation of an off-road vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person holding a valid state license to operate a motor
vehicle or a valid license to operate a motor vehicle from another state.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)
§ 71.03  PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this chapter is:
   (A)   To authorize persons holding a valid state motor vehicle driver’s
license (or a valid motor vehicle license from another state) to operate off-
road vehicles registered with the State Department of Natural Resources over
and upon county roads;
   (B)   To establish rules and regulations for the operation of off-road
vehicles over and upon county roads; and
   (C)   To promote the safety for persons and property, responsible enjoyment
in and connected with the use and operation of off-road vehicles and
understanding consistent with the rights of all the citizens of this county.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)
§ 71.04  PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO OPERATE OFF-ROAD VEHICLES ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   All persons who hold a valid motor vehicle driver’s license are hereby
authorized to operate an off-road vehicle over and upon county roads under the
conditions set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on any county road without
a valid motor vehicle driver’s license.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05  INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any person who owns and operates an off-road vehicle over and upon
county roads or who permits another person to operate an off-road vehicle owned
by him or her over and upon county roads shall maintain recreational vehicle
liability insurance in the minimum amount of $100,000 per person and $300,000
per occurrence insuring against injury to persons and damage to property
arising from the use and operation of the off-road vehicle upon county roads.
   (B)   Any person who operates an off-road vehicle over and upon county roads
shall carry proof of the insurance on his or her person or on or within the
off-road vehicle at all times when operating an off-road vehicle on county
roads.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06  REGISTRATION/COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   An off-road vehicle shall not be operated on a county road unless it is duly
registered with the State Department of Natural Resources and meets all of the
standards, requirements and regulations set forth in I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07  RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
   A person shall not operate an off-road vehicle:
   (A)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having due
regard for conditions then existing;
   (B)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or unlawfully under
the influence of narcotic or other habit forming or dangerous depressant or
stimulant drug;
   (C)   During the hours from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise without displaying a lighted headlight and lighted taillight;
   (D)   On or across a cemetery or burial ground; and
   (E)   On a railroad track or railroad right-of-way, except railroad
personnel in performance of their duties.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08  OPERATION ON COUNTY ROADS.
   A person shall comply with the following when operating an off-road vehicle
on a county road.
   (A)   The operator of an off-road vehicle shall abide by all traffic laws
governing the operation of motor vehicles in the state as set forth in I.C. 9
and 14.
   (B)   The operator of an off-road vehicle may not cross a county road or
enter upon a county road other than at right angles.
   (C)   The operator of an off-road vehicle shall bring his or her off-road
vehicle to a complete stop before proceeding onto or across a county road and
shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09  RIGHT TO RESTRICT OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLE TRAFFIC ON DESIGNATED COUNTY
ROADS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may restrict off-road vehicular traffic on
county roads by designating the roads as unsuitable for off-road vehicular
traffic and by posting signs on the designated roads.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate an off-road vehicle
on any county road so designated and posted.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   Unless otherwise prohibited by state law, all law enforcement officers
having jurisdiction in the county, including officers of the State Department
of Natural Resources, shall have authority to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)
§ 71.11  APPLICABILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply only to the areas of the county outside the
jurisdiction of the towns and incorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   This chapter shall become in full force and effect from and after its
adoption by the Board of Commissioners and its publication in accordance with
I.C. 5-3-1.
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter that occurred prior to
the enactment of this chapter, and which was a violation of existing state law,
shall not be exempted from enforcement under this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates any provision of this chapter commits a Class A
ordinance violation and shall be fined the sum of $500 per violation, plus all
costs and attorneys fees for the collection of such fines.
   (B)   A person who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter a
second time within one year of a previous violation shall be fined the sum of
$1,000, plus all costs and attorneys fees for the collection of such fines.
   (C)   A person who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter a
third time within one year of two previous violations shall be fined not less
than $1,500 and not greater than the sum of $2,500, plus all costs and
attorneys fees for the collection of such fines.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 10-18-1995)
CHAPTER 72:  WEIGHT LIMITS ON COUNTY ROADS
Section
   
72.01   Purpose
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Issuance of permits
   
72.04   General restrictions
   
72.05   Scope
   
72.06   Exemptions
   
72.07   Effective date
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the preservation of
county roads and highways by prohibiting the operation of vehicles or limiting
the gross weight of vehicles operated on county highways whenever the roads by
reason of deterioration, rain, snow or climatic conditions will be seriously
damaged or destroyed without the regulation of the type and volume of vehicle
traffic.
   (B)   The further purpose of this chapter is to protect county roads against
serious damage and deterioration by identifying the type of traffic on county
roads and regulating the use of the roads as permitted by law.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-14-1996)
§ 72.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle
upon a highway.
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a vehicle.
   PERSON. An individual, a firm, a partnership, an association, a fiduciary,
an executor or administrator, a governmental entity, a limited liability
company or a corporation.
   VEHICLE. Except as otherwise provided in this section, a device in, upon or
by which a person or property is, or may be, transported or drawn upon a county
road or highway. VEHICLE does not include the following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power;
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks;
      (3)   A fire truck and apparatus owned by a person or municipal division
of the state and used for fire protection; and
      (4)   A police patrol wagon.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-14-1996)
§ 72.03  ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The County Highway Department shall issue and maintain permits and
records related to the issuing of the permits.
   (B)   Consistent with the purposes of this chapter, the County Highway
Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed, when conditions may require,
to restrict the weight limits for vehicles over 34,000 pounds permitted to
travel county highways and the specific roads and travel routes which the
traffic is permitted to travel.
   (C)   Consistent with the purposes of this chapter, the County Highway
Superintendent is further authorized to prohibit the operation of vehicles,
trucks or commercial vehicles upon any county highway.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-14-1996)
§ 72.04  GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle or combination of vehicles having
a total gross weight, with load, in excess of 20,000 pounds, over, upon or
across any county highway unless and except the person first obtains a written
permit from the County Highway Department.
   (B)   Any person granted a road permit shall operate its vehicles and
transport the permitted weight loads only upon the roads and highways of the
county system on the route and as specified in the permit.
   (C)   As a part of the permit, and prior to traveling any county highway
designated in the permit, any person seeking to operate a vehicle or
combination of vehicles having a total gross weight, with a load in excess of
20,000 pounds, may be required by the County Highway Superintendent to file a
bond for gravel, chip-and-seal, asphalt or black-top roads in a sum established
pursuant to a schedule adopted by the Highway Superintendent from time to time.
   (D)   All operators of vehicles or combinations of vehicles having a total
gross weight, with a load in excess of 20,000 pounds, shall carry the permit
issued by the County Highway Department (or a true and exact copy of the same)
within the vehicle all times when the operators are operating the vehicle upon,
along or across any county road or highway.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-14-1996)
§ 72.05  SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all public roads and highways in the county
system and within the territorial limits of the county, except roads or
highways in the state highway system of the state and the highways in the
federal highway system.
   (B)   This chapter shall be applied and enforced in conformity with I.C. 9-
20-1-3.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-14-1996)
§ 72.06  EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter and all regulations issued in connection therewith shall not
apply to any school bus which transports children to and from the public and
private schools in the county or any buses which are not more than 45 feet in
length.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-14-1996)
§ 72.07  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective from and after its passage by the County
Board of Commissioners and after its publication as required by law.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-14-1996)
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §
72.04(C) commits an ordinance violation and shall be fined a minimum of $500
and a maximum of $2,500 per violation, plus all costs and attorneys fees for
the collection of such fines. Any person who violates §
72.04(C) more than two times within a 30-day period shall be fined $2,500 for
each violation. Each day a person violates §
72.04(C) shall constitute a separate ordinance violation.
   (B)   Any penalty imposed by this chapter shall not, in any way, limit,
restrict or invalidate any civil action for damages brought on behalf of the
county for damages caused by the violation of this chapter to any county road
or highway.
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall, in addition to any fines, be assessed all costs and expenses, including
reasonable attorney fees, incurred by the county in the enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-14-1996)
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Traffic signals
   
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
 
Location                                      Type       Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection of C.R. 300 N (Boston Road) and  4-way stop 2009-3   4-20-2009
C.R. 110 W
Intersection of C.R. 1100 W and C.R. 400 N on 4-way stop 1995-3   7-5-1995
the Wright/Stockton Township line
Intersection of C.R. 1250 W and C.R. 400 N on 4-way stop 1995-3   7-5-1995
the Wright/Stockton Township line
 
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
Street Location Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                 Location                Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
                       Commencing at the
                       intersection with S.R.
                       157 and running west
C.R. 140 N             and then north to a     35 mph      2005-04  5-17-2005
                       point approximately 0.6
                       mile north of the
                       intersection of C.R.
                       150 N
                       From the intersection
C.R. 150 N             with S.R. 45 to the     30 mph      2011-08  10-17-2011
                       county line
                       From the intersection
                       with C.R. 800 S running
C.R. 200 E             north to the            35 mph      2009-08  10-19-2009
                       intersection with S.R.
                       58
                       Commencing from the
                       intersection with S.R.
                       54 northerly to and
                       across Bridge 21 and
C.R. 205 E             continuing northerly to 30 mph      2006-03  8-15-2006
                       and along C.R. 225 E to
                       the intersection with
                       C.R. 180 E (Cold
                       Springs Road)
                       From the intersection
C.R. 215 E             with S.R. 45 to the     35 mph      2011-08  10-17-2011
                       intersection with C.R.
                       600 S
C.R. 275 N                                     30 mph      2006-06  10-17-2006
                       Portion which lies
                       between the
                       intersection with the
C.R. 420 N             west right-of-way of    35 mph      1998-    9-1-1998
                       S.R. 43 and the
                       intersection with C.R.
                       840 E
                       From intersection with
C.R. 500 N             S.R. 59, east to the    35 mph      2001-2   9-18-2001
                       intersection of C.R.
                       1250 W
                       From the intersection
C.R. 500 S             with S.R. 59, east to   35 mph      2011-11  12-19-2011
                       the intersection with
                       C.R. 1200 W
                       From the intersection
C.R. 545 N             with S.R. 59, east to   35 mph      2001-2   9-18-2001
                       the intersection of
                       C.R. 1250 W
                       From the intersection
C.R. 600 E             with C.R. 450 S to      35 mph      2011-08  10-17-2011
                       Mineral-Koleen Road
C.R. 660 E             South of C.R. 375 N     35 mph      1995-2   7-5-1995
                       center one-half mile
                       From the intersection
C.R. 750 W             with S.R. 54 running    35 mph      2013-02  3-5-2013
                       south to C.R. 200 S
                       From the intersection
C.R. 800 W             of S.R. 54, south to    35 mph      2013-08  8-20-2013
                       the intersection of
                       S.R. 67
                       From the intersection
                       with S.R. 231 running
C.R. 800 S             east to the             35 mph      2009-08  10-19-2009
                       intersection of C.R.
                       200 E
                       From the intersection
                       with S.R. 45/58 and
C.R. 900 E (Dry Branch running northwesterly   35 mph      2011-07  9-19-2011
Road)                  to the intersection
                       with the Mineral/Koleen
                       Road
                       From its intersection
C.R. 1000 W            with S.R. 54 to a point 35 mph      2016-05  8-2-2016
                       1641 feet north of said
                       intersection
                       From a point 1641 feet
                       north of its
C.R. 1000 W            intersection with S.R.  40 mph      2016-05  8-2-2016
                       54 to a point 2591 feet
                       north of same
                       intersection
                       From C.R. 1150 E
C.R. 1100 E            northerly to its        30 mph      2006-03  8-15-2006
                       terminus
C.R. 1150 E            From S.R. 54 northerly  30 mph      2006-03  8-15-2006
                       to C.R.1190 E
                       From C.R. 1150 E
C.R. 1190 E            northerly to its        30 mph      2006-03  8-15-2006
                       terminus
                       From the intersection
                       with S.R. 54 and
C.R. 1250 E            running south           35 mph      2011-07  9-19-2011
                       approximately 5 miles
                       to the intersection
                       with 675 S in Owensburg
                       From the intersection
C.R. 1250 W            of C.R. 500 N, north to 35 mph      2001-2   9-18-2001
                       the intersection of
                       C.R. 545 N
C.R. 1260 E            From the intersection
(Hobbieville Road)     with S.R. 54 to the     35 mph      2011-08  10-17-2011
                       Monroe County line
                       From the intersection
                       with S.R. 54, south to
C.R. 1500 W            the intersection of     35 mph      2004-2   6-1-2004
                       C.R. 50 N (White Rose
                       Road)
Greene County Line                             35 mph      2012-04  6-18-2012
Road
                       From the intersection
                       with Tulip Road
Killinger Road         westerly to its         45 mph      2013-02  3-5-2013
                       terminus at the
                       intersection with Frye
                       Road
                       From its intersection
                       with S.R. 54 to a point
Sylvania Road          along the road one-half 30 mph      2008-01  1-15-2008
                       mile west of the
                       intersection
 
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   County employee parking policy
SCHEDULE I. COUNTY EMPLOYEE PARKING POLICY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COUNTY EMPLOYEE. All individuals who are paid compensation through the
annual salary ordinance adopted by the County Council are deemed to be
employees of the county.
      VEHICLE. Any device which is capable of moving itself or of being moved
from place to place upon wheels.
   (B)   County employees will be issued a vehicle identification credential by
the County Board of Commissioners which is to be displayed on the employee
vehicle as directed. Employees are requested to park in the county described
parking lot, or at least one block from the County Courthouse. Under no
circumstances should an employee use public parking spaces adjacent to the
County Courthouse or spaces specifically reserved for emergency vehicles or
public official vehicles during normal business hours when the County
Courthouse is open for public business. Employee violations of this parking
policy shall be considered a Group II offense under the County Personnel Policy
Handbook, adopted by the County Board of Commissioners and County Council,
effective 1-1-2002.
   (C)   Parking spaces on streets adjacent to the County Courthouse are
restricted to public parking for citizens conducting business at the Courthouse
and/or town enterprises.
   (D)   The Auditor of the county has ordered to publish this schedule
pursuant to I.C. 5-3-1 and to circulate a copy of this schedule to county
employees.
   (E)   This schedule shall be in full force and effect upon passage.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 11-4-2002)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   FAIR HOUSING
         
91.   ANIMAL BITE AND NEGLECT
         
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
93.   TOBACCO USE
         
94.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
90.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
90.10   Exemptions
   
90.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 90.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Greene County Commissioners to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5 et seq.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 5-7-2014)
§ 90.02  DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur (see also I.C. 22-9.5-2-2).
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq. (See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6. (See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04,
90.05,
90.06,
90.07, or
90.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (see also I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in “familial status”.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   HANDICAP.With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person's major life activities.
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment, or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment,
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
      (5)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (6)   The term HANDICAPshall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802, or 910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAPinclude an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON.Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries. (See also
I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant. (See
also I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 5-7-2014)
§ 90.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
90.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and §
90.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C), nothing in §
90.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.03(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 5-7-2014)
§ 90.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
90.03 and except as exempted by §
90.03(B) and §
90.10 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination.
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13,1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               i.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               ii.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               iii.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities, providing accessibility and usability for physically
handicapped people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1") suffices to satisfy the
requirements of division (A)(8)(c)3.iii.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 5-7-2014)
§ 90.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 5-7-2014)
§ 90.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 5-7-2014)
§ 90.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
90.03,
90.04,
90.05, or
90.06.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 5-7-2014)
§ 90.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 5-7-2014)
§ 90.09  EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. Part 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. Part 574.3 the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 5-7-2014)
§ 90.10  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this chapter, “housing for
older persons” means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist an
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program) or;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, a person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 5-7-2014)
§ 90.11  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Board of Commissioners of Greene
County, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, because of lack of
financial and other resources necessary to fully administer enforcement
proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, the Board of
Commissioners herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the
sections of this chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission
for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Board
of Commissioners of Greene County, Indiana, shall refer all said complaints to
the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section to said
Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as
provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of Greene County, Indiana,
shall administer their departments, programs and activities relating to housing
and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the Board of Commissioners of Greene County,
Indiana, and the Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners of Greene County, Indiana, or its designee,
shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or
complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 5-7-2014)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMAL BITE AND NEGLECT
Section
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Purpose
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Animal Bite and Neglect Commission; Animal Bite and Neglect Fund
   
91.05   Animal Bite and Neglect Officer
   
91.06   (Reserved)
   
91.07   Animal care
   
91.08   Dangerous dogs; abandonment and cruelty
   
91.09   Restraint
   
91.10   Animal neglect
   
91.11   (Reserved)
   
91.12   Investigation; enforcement
   
91.13   Interpretation; applicability
   
91.14   Amendments
   
91.15   Applicability and effective date
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  TITLE.
   This chapter is titled “Greene County Animal Bite and Neglect Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.02  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit inhumane treatment of all
animals, to prohibit illegal dumping of unwanted animals and to keep owned
animals properly restrained in all of the county, to provide guidance for the
investigation of animal bite and neglect complaints, and to establish penalties
for violations thereof. This chapter is intended to protect the citizens of the
county from health hazards of uncared for animals, vicious dogs and
uninoculated dogs against rabies.
   (B)   It is not the intention of this chapter to prohibit the activities of
citizens of the county from lawfully engaging in legal hunting and fishing
activities. Rather, the primary intent of the ordinance is to prevent animal
abuse and irresponsible pet care, to promote proper pet care and spaying and
neutering of pets. Enforcement of animal management laws is important in
keeping stray and vicious dogs and cats off the streets and county roads, and
to ensure that all animals are being cared for properly. Fines and sanctions
are meant to deter violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been operated on to prevent it from
procreating.
   ANIMAL. Any live, non-human vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL BITE AND NEGLECT COMMISSION. An advisory commission with regard to
policy and fiscal decisions affecting the administration and enforcement of
this chapter.
   AT LARGE ANIMAL. Any domestic animal not on his or her owner’s premises, or
any dog not engaged in lawful hunting accompanied by his or her owner or
custodian.
   CATTERY. Any person, group of persons, partnership or corporation engaged in
keeping more than five unaltered cats.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that by its behavior has demonstrated it constitutes
a serious threat to persons or animals.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Any animal that is a member of one of the following
species: cat, gerbil, pig, cattle, goat, poultry, chinchilla, guinea pig,
rabbit, dog, hamster, rat, donkey, horse, sheep, ferret or mouse.
   HARBORING. The action of any person that permits any animal habitually to
remain at large or to be fed within his or her home, enclosure, yard or place
of business or on any premises where the person resides or that he or she
controls. An animal shall be presumed to be HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered
for three consecutive days.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership or corporation owning, keeping or harboring
animals.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation.
   PET. Any animal owned or harbored by any person, group of persons,
partnership or corporation, except service animals or police or other
governmental entity’s animals.
   RABIES VACCINATION. The injection, by a licensed veterinarian, of a dog, cat
or other animal with a rabies vaccine licensed by U.S.D.A. and approved by the
State Board of Animal Health.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal other than:
      (1)   Domestic animals;
      (2)   Small non-poisonous aquatic or amphibious animals;
      (3)   Small caged birds; or
      (4)   Small non-poisonous snakes or reptiles.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.04  ANIMAL BITE AND NEGLECT COMMISSION; ANIMAL BITE AND NEGLECT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment, duties. There is created and established an Animal Bite
and Neglect Commission of the county, which shall have the authority and
responsibility to:
      (1)   Make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners as to the
necessary ordinances concerning control of dogs and other animals; and
      (2)   Make decisions regarding the allocation of funds and the Animal
Bite and Neglect Fund for the various purposes set forth in §
91.99(C).
   (B)   Membership, terms, meetings.
      (1)   The Animal Bite and Neglect Commission shall be composed of five
members, appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   An initial term of two years shall be served by the first member,
three years shall be served for the second and third members, and four years
shall be served by the fourth and fifth members.
      (3)   The Commission shall meet at least once every six months and at
other times as determined by the Commission.
   (C)   Animal Bite and Neglect Fund; establishment.
      (1)   There shall be established an Animal Bite and Neglect Fund, which
shall be dedicated and utilized in the operation of the county for the Animal
Shelter, Humane Education, Animal Bite and Neglect, and other purposes
consistent with this chapter.
      (2)   All county license fees, fines or penalties imposed by this chapter
shall be deposited into the Animal Bite and Neglect Fund.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.05  ANIMAL BITE AND NEGLECT OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment, duties, powers.
      (1)   The Animal Bite and Neglect Officer shall be appointed by the
Greene County Sheriff.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Bite and Neglect Officer to
carry out the enforcement of this chapter.
      (3)   The powers of the Animal Bite and Neglect Officer shall include the
power to enter a real property to enforce this chapter; however, the Animal
Bite and Neglect Officer shall not enter a dwelling unit without the permission
of the owner of the dwelling unit until the Animal Bite and Neglect Officer has
a search or arrest warrant.
   (B)   Impoundment.
      (1)   Any at large animal, unlicensed dog, vicious dog or female dog in
heat that is not confined or any animal that is not receiving adequate care may
be taken by a law enforcement officer or an Animal Bite and Neglect Officer and
impounded in a location designated by the Animal Bite and Neglect Commission.
      (2)   Animals found in cruel, abusive or neglectful situations as defined
in this chapter or animals that have been abandoned may be promptly impounded;
provided, however, that, the Animal Bite and Control Officer shall leave
written notice saying the location of the animal and the reason for
impoundment.
      (3)   If an animal has bitten a person, the Sheriff’s Department and the
County Health Department shall be immediately notified. At the discretion of
the Animal Bite and Neglect Officer, or the County Health Department if he or
she is not available, the animal shall be held on the owner’s premises or shall
be impounded to a location acceptable to the Animal Bite and Neglect Officer at
the owner’s expense for a period of ten days. The animal shall be examined
immediately after it has bitten anyone and again at the end of the ten-day
period unless it is determined to be rabid at an earlier time. If, at the end
of the ten days, a veterinarian or qualified person is convinced that the
animal is then free from rabies, the animal shall be released. If the animal
dies in the meanwhile, or shows any signs of rabies, the Animal Bite and
Neglect Officer and County Health Department shall follow protocol specified by
state law and the State Board of Veterinary Health.
      (4)   If the owner of an impounded animal can be identified by a license
tag or other means, the Animal Bite and Neglect Officer shall immediately upon
impoundment notify the owner in person or by telephone or mail.
      (5)   Any animal that is not claimed by the owner within three days (72
hours) of impoundment shall become the property of the county and may be placed
for adoption or humanely euthanized.
      (6)   If any animal is impounded that is dangerous, injured, sick or
suffering, and the owner of the animal cannot be located, the animal may be
euthanized before the three-day waiting period at the discretion of the Animal
Bite and Neglect Officer or County Veterinarian.
      (7)   An owner claiming an impounded animal shall pay a daily fee
established by the location housing the animal. The ownership of an animal may
not be transferred during the time the animal is housed by the county. The
Animal Bite and Neglect Officer or County Veterinarian may require that impound
fees be paid before releasing an impounded animal. After 14 days of non-payment
after the date on which the animal was eligible to be released, the Animal Bite
and Neglect Officer or the County Veterinarian may submit the animal to an
animal shelter or euthanize the animal at their discretion.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.06  [RESERVED].
§ 91.07  ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   Every owner of an animal shall provide his or her animal with proper
and adequate food, water, shelter, protection from the weather, medical care
and keep his or her animal in a clean, sanitary, healthy manner and not confine
the animal so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie down in its own excrement.
   (B)   Every owner shall exercise due care and control of his or her animals
to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (C)   Every owner shall have any dog over the age of six months vaccinated
by a licensed veterinarian for rabies yearly in compliance with all state
ordinances. Upon request by the Animal Bite and Neglect Officer, an animal
owner shall provide all vaccination records for each animal possessed.
   (D)   Any animal that is tied, hitched or fastened on a rope, chain or cord
must have a properly fitted collar, halter or harness made of leather or nylon,
not of the choker type. This provision shall not prohibit the proper use of
choker collars in the training of animals or other devices used in the training
of animals. The tying device shall be at least six feet in length and away from
any obstructions that could cause entanglement.
   (E)   Every owner shall provide care to any animal that is diseased or
injured as necessary to prevent suffering and, if diseased, be segregated from
other animals so as to prevent the transmittal of the disease to other animals.
   (F)   Any owner of a female dog in heat shall keep that animal in a building
or some enclosure in a manner that the female dog in heat cannot come into
contact with a male dog, except for planned breeding.
   (G)   Any person who owns an animal within the city or town limits or who
keeps an animal within 200 feet from another dwelling shall not allow that
animal to bark, whine or howl or make other sounds common to its species in
excess.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08  DANGEROUS DOGS, ABANDONMENT AND CRUELTY.
   (A)   Dangerous dogs. Every dangerous dog, as determined by the Animal Bite
and Neglect Officer, shall be confined by the owner within a building or secure
enclosure and shall be securely muzzled and controlled or caged whenever
outside of the enclosure.
   (B)   Abandonment. No person shall abandon any animal. All unwanted animals
shall be placed in a humane home, euthanized properly or taken to the animal
shelter.
   (C)   Poisoning animals. No person shall expose any known poisonous
substance, whether mixed with food or not, so that it shall be liable to be
eaten by any animal; provided that, it shall not be unlawful for a person to
expose on his or her own property common rat or mouse poison, unmixed or mixed
only with vegetable substances.
   (D)   Abuse or torturing animals.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally torture any vertebrate
animal. This provision does not apply to persons who are legally engaged in
fishing or hunting of wild animals for food or sport.
      (2)   Any parent shall be responsible for a minor that tortures any
vertebrate animal.
   (E)   Fighting. No person shall permit or conduct any dog fight, cock fight
or other combat between animals or between animals and humans.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09  RESTRAINT.
   (A)   At large dog.
      (1)   No person shall permit any dog to run at large. Any dog found
running at large is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be taken and
impounded by the Animal Bite and Neglect Officer. A warning ticket may be
issued under this section at the discretion of the Animal Bite and Neglect
Officer.
      (2)   No person shall permit his or her dog to interfere with passers-by
or passing vehicles, chase or attack other animals or persons, or damage
private or public property.
   (B)   Wild animals.
      (1)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his or her premises
any wild animal for any purposes, except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and
(3) below. This section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks,
circuses, performing animal exhibitions or research laboratories.
      (2)   Any person owning a wild animal prior to the enactment of this
section shall be permitted to continue to keep the animal; provided that, he or
she register the animal with the Animal Bite and Neglect Commission within 60
days of the enactment of this section.
      (3)   Any person possessing a valid state permit to possess a wild animal
may continue to possess the animal; provided that, he or she registers the
animal with the Animal Bite and Neglect Commission within 30 days after
receiving the state permit.
   (C)   Kennels and catteries. No person shall keep more than 10 dogs and/or
cats without written permission from the Animal Bite and Neglect Commission.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10  ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   (A)   Animal care regulations. All animal care regulations must comply with
§
91.07.
   (B)   Motor vehicle accidents involving animals. Any person who, as the
operator of a motor vehicle, strikes an animal, and that animal is presumed to
be alive, shall at once report the accident to the appropriate law enforcement
agency.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11  [RESERVED].
§ 91.12  INVESTIGATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the area law enforcement officials serving in
the county to investigate reports of violations of this chapter. Any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to punishment by fines
or sanctions set forth in §
91.99.
   (B)   Upon receipt of any complaint or report of a violation of this
chapter, the Animal Bite and Neglect Officer or any area law enforcement agency
shall conduct an investigation of the complaint.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.13  INTERPRETATION; APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be construed to be in conformity with state laws
governing animal control, hunting and fishing activities, and any provision of
this chapter inconsistent with state laws shall be deemed void to the extent
that it contravenes state laws.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.14  AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended, modified or repealed by a majority of members
of the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.15  APPLICABILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to the entirety of the county.
   (B)   All portions of former ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed or superseded. This chapter shall become in full force and effect from
and after its adoption and publication as required by law.
   (C)   Any act which would constitute a violation of this chapter which
occurred prior to the enactment of this chapter, and which was a violation of
existing state laws, shall be exempted from enforcement under this chapter.
   (D)   It is further resolved that this chapter be in effect 30 days after
publication.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Any person who violates §
91.07(A) and (B) commits a Class B violation.
      (2)   Any person who violates §
91.07(C) through (G) commits a Class C violation.
      (3)   Any person who violates §
91.08 commits a Class A violation.
      (4)   Any person who violates §
91.09 commits a Class C violation.
   (B)   Penalties and sanctions.
      (1)   Any person committing a Class A violation of this chapter shall be
fined a sum of not less than $100 per instance, plus all costs and attorneys
fees for the collection of such fines.
      (2)   Any person committing a Class B violation of this chapter shall be
fined a sum of $50 per instance, plus all costs and attorneys fees for the
collection of such fines.
      (3)   Any person committing a Class C violation of this chapter shall be
fined a sum of $20 per instance, plus all costs and attorneys fees for the
collection of such fines.
      (4)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
chapter shall, in addition to any fines, be liable for all reasonable attorney
fees and costs incurred by the county in the enforcement of this chapter.
      (5)   For continuous violations, each day constitutes a separate
instance.
   (C)   County Animal Control Fund.
      (1)   Every fine and penalty thus assessed or collected under this
chapter shall be deposited into the County Animal Bite and Neglect Fund.
      (2)   The Animal Bite and Neglect Fund shall be used by the county for
animal control and other purposes consistent with this chapter.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-7-2017)
CHAPTER 92:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Private Road Acceptance
   
92.01   Short title
   
92.02   Purpose
   
92.03   Application
   
92.04   Petition procedure
   
92.05   Road designation
   
92.06   Factors to be considered for acceptance
   
92.07   Minimum standards for acceptance
   
92.08   Conditional acceptance/denial of petition
   
92.09   Effect of approval of petition
   
92.10   Maintenance of records of county highways
   
92.11   Effect of highway records and prior county maintenance
   
92.12   Recordation of private roadway as a county road
   
92.13   Interpretation of effect upon existing roadways
   
92.14   Effective date
 
   
92.99   Penalty
PRIVATE ROAD ACCEPTANCE
§ 92.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “County Road Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.02  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To provide for roadways of suitable location, width and improvement
to accommodate expected traffic and afford satisfactory access to police, fire-
fighting, snow removal, sanitation, school buses and road maintenance
equipment;
      (2)   To coordinate road development in order to compose a convenient
system, avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties and assure compatibility
with long range planning; and
      (3)   To establish an orderly and equitable procedure for the adoption of
private roadways into the county road system.
   (B)   All persons contemplating the purchase of real estate in the county
are cautioned by the Board of Commissioners to verify that the real estate is
located upon a county roadway included in the county highway system. Do not
presume that the contractor or seller will be able to obtain acceptance of the
road without someone first, at his, her or their expense, bringing the roadway
into compliance with the minimum standards set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.03  APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all private roadways which lie outside of the
corporation limits of any city or town located in the county.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.04  PETITION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person who does the following may file a petition requesting
acceptance with the Board of Commissioners of the county:
      (1)   Owns or is interested in any real estate located along or near a
private road located outside of the corporation boundaries of any city or town;
      (2)   Who utilizes the private road for access to and from real estate
owned or interested by the  person; and
      (3)   Wishes to obtain acceptance of the private road into the county
highway system.
   (B)   Notice of the petition must be given in the manner prescribed in
division (C) below. The petition must:
      (1)   Specifically describe the private road proposed to be accepted by
the county. It is preferable that the description be by metes and bounds and
prepared by a registered state land surveyor. However, the description may be
deemed sufficient by the Board if it describes the private roadway in a manner
reasonably calculated to give notice to the public of the location of the
roadway;
      (2)   Give the names and addresses of all owners of land that abuts the
roadway to be accepted or that utilize the roadway for ingress or egress, along
with the book and page number of the recorded deed through which each property
owner acquired title;
      (3)   Identify the road surface designation under which the private
roadway is to be accepted;
      (4)   Contain a written verified certification under oath that all
minimum standards set forth in this subchapter have been met and that the
roadway has been inspected and approved by the County Highway Superintendent;
and
      (5)   State the reasons why it will be in the public interest for the
private roadway to be accepted into the county highway system.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall hold a hearing on the petition within
30 days after it is received and notice is sent. The Auditor shall give notice
of the petition and of the time and place of the hearing:
      (1)   In the manner prescribed in I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   By certified mail to each owner of land that abuts the roadway or
uses the same for ingress and egress.
   (D)   The petitioner shall pay in advance the expense of providing this
notice and an administrative fee of $0. The petitioner shall not be entitled to
consideration of the petition until the expenses of notice and administration
have been paid.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.05  ROAD DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The petitioner shall designate the surface type of the private road to
be accepted as one of the following:
      (1)   Gravel;
      (2)   Chip-and-seal; or
      (3)   Blacktop.
   (B)   Before acceptance, the private roadway shall meet the minimum
standards for the type of road surface as set forth in §
92.07.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.06  FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED FOR ACCEPTANCE.
   Before accepting a private road into the county road system, all relevant
factors, including the following factors, shall receive consideration:
   (A)   Safety for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
   (B)   Efficiency of service to all users;
   (C)   The number of citizens who will be served by the road;
   (D)   The need for accessibility by police, fire fighters, school buses and
other public services;
   (E)   The location of the private roadway to other county roads;
   (F)   The extent to which the convenience and benefit of property owners is
outweighed by the cost of maintenance; and
   (G)   Any other relevant factors which may affect the public good.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.07  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ACCEPTANCE.
   Before a private road shall qualify for acceptance into the county highway
system, the road shall meet the following minimum standards of acceptance for
its surface designation.
   (A)   Right-of-way. The right-of-way shall be a minimum of 50 feet or 25
feet on each side of the centerline.
   (B)   Pavement width. The width of the pavement surface shall be a minimum
of 20 feet.
   (C)   Shoulders.
      (1)   The minimum width of the shoulder shall be four feet on each side
of the pavement; provided, however, that, a minimum width of three feet may be
permitted under exceptional circumstances related to the topography, terrain
and the like.
      (2)   The slope of the shoulders shall be a minimum of one-half inch per
foot and a maximum of one inch per foot.
      (3)   The materials for shoulders shall be #53 compacted aggregate base.
   (D)   Subgrade.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided, the first five inches below the surface
shall be compacted to at least 100% of the maximum dry density as determined by
the provisions of AASHOOT 99, as modified in 203.24.
      (2)   During the subgrade preparation and after its completion, adequate
draining shall be provided at all times to prevent water from standing on the
subgrade.
      (3)   Unless otherwise provided, the roadbed below the subgrade shall be
so constructed that it will have, as nearly as possible, uniform density
throughout. In both cuts and fills, it shall be rolled with a three-wheeled
roller weighing at least ten tons or with other approved compacting equipment
capable of providing a smooth even subgrade surface. In areas not accessible to
the roller or other equipment, the required compaction shall be obtained with
mechanical tamps or vibrators. In any case, the upper six inches shall comply
with embankment density requirements of the contract immediately prior to
placing the materials thereon.
      (4)   All soft, yielding or other unsuitable material which will not
compact readily when approximately dry shall be removed. All rock encountered
shall either be removed or broken off to conform with the required cross
section.
      (5)   Any holes or depressions resulting from the removal of unsuitable
material shall be filled with satisfactory material and compacted to conform
with the surrounding subgrade surface.
      (6)   Paving material shall not be placed before the subgrade is checked
and approved and at no time when the subgrade is frozen or muddy.
      (7)   No hauling shall be done nor equipment moved over the subgrade when
its condition is such that undue distortion results. If these conditions are
present, the subgrade shall be protected with adequate plank runways, mats or
other satisfactory means if hauling is done thereon.
      (8)   If limits of the work make mechanical preparation of the subgrade
impractical, hand methods may be used.
      (9)   The condition of the subgrade as finally accepted and meeting all
of the above criteria must continue to exist and prevail from the time that any
paving material is placed thereon and continuing thereafter until all paving
material has been completed in order that the paving operation shall not be
delayed.
   (E)   Drainage.
      (1)   All backslopes shall be a minimum of one to four grade. They shall
be seeded or sodded.
      (2)   All side ditches with over a 3% grade shall be of concrete
construction for the side ditch. Where there is sodding or seed, it also must
be limed and fertilized before seeding and same shall be maintained by the
petitioner so seeking the acceptance of the road into the highway system.
      (3)   The minimum shall be 15 inches square aluminum or corrugated metal
pipe. Squash is an arch type pipe. Length: minimum under property entrance
shall be 24 feet or longer if necessary to maintain proper fill slope. Drainage
areas for all structures under the main roadway must be calculated in order for
correct size of structures to be placed and this must be done by a qualified
engineer or Professional engineer (for example, some land surveyors are also
“professional engineers”. A land surveyor who is not also a professional
engineer shall not be so qualified under this act) and the plans so drawn up by
the engineer shall include calculations of drainage area and structure size and
the plans shall be furnished to the Board of Commissioners of the county prior
to any work being commenced.
      (4)   The length of structures under main roadway shall be as required by
fill base dimensions. Structure shall be aligned and provided with end
structures or rip rap as required to prevent erosion.
   (F)   Aggregate base. After the preparation of the subgrade has been
completed to the above requirements.
      (1)   Four inches of #53 stone conforming to the ISHC specifications
shall be placed. This shall be rolled with a ten-ton roller and compacted to
100% dry density. After this, four inches of stone shall be applied and rolled
to specification, then another four-inch layer shall be applied and rolled to
100% density. The above material will total an eight-inch depth and same shall
be placed a total width of 30 feet.
      (2)   The crown shall conform to the finished surface, one-half inch per
foot. Total equals three inches in 12 feet.
   (G)   Bituminous surface.
      (1)   The aggregate base will be primed with black asphalt MC-70, AEP,
tar, RT-1 or RT-2 for prime coat. Same shall be applied from 0.50 to 0.80
gallons per square yard depending upon the condition of the surface. No course
shall be placed on a primed surface until the bituminous material has
penetrated and the surface is dry and until the aggregate base has been checked
and approved. Provided, however, that, other types of surfacing and priming
materials may be used if they are approved in writing and signed by the Board
of Commissioners or their delegated representative prior to any obligation
being incurred for the payment of same.
      (2)   Material for surface shall be hot asphalt concrete pavement Type B
(using #11 stone);
      (3)   Thickness: three inches after compaction has been completed. Place
220 pounds, per square yard.
      (4)   Compaction: ten-ton roller.
      (5)   Placement: by machine in one lay.
      (6)   Unless otherwise approved by the Board of Commissioners of the
county or its delegated representative, all materials and workmanship shall
conform to the current issue of standard specifications of the State Highway
Department.
   (H)   Ditches.
      (1)   Minimum of one foot below the outer edge of the shoulder on four to
one slope, and of sufficient size to carry the surface water. A “paved side
ditch” will be required on slopes over 3%. A paved side ditch must conform to
ISHC specifications and shall be approved in writing by the County Highway
Engineer, the County Commissioners or any personnel whom they may hire to make
the determination. Minimum side slope shall be 0.5%. (The County Commissioners
may not have a full-time County Engineer. In that case, the County
Commissioners may seek the advice of any other qualified engineer in order to
make the determination, whether or not he or she is actually being paid by the
county for that particular purpose.)
      (2)   The minimum standards set forth above may be modified or amended
from time to time by the Board.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.08  CONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE/DENIAL OF PETITION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may, in its discretion:
      (1)   Accept the petition without conditions;
      (2)   Accept the petition with conditions; or
      (3)   Deny the petition for acceptance.
   (B)   If acceptance of the roadway is made with conditions, the roadway
shall not be deemed accepted into the county highway system until the Board has
received written confirmation by the County Highway Superintendent that all
conditions have been satisfied, and the same is approved by the Board.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.09  EFFECT OF APPROVAL OF PETITION.
   Upon approval of the petition for acceptance, the roadway shall be deemed a
county highway under the surface designation stated in the petition. The county
shall, thereafter, maintain the roadway under that surface designation.
Acceptance shall not imply an obligation by the county to upgrade the surface
designation and all persons who are given notice of the petition for acceptance
shall be presumed to have knowledge of the effect of approval.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.10  MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS OF COUNTY HIGHWAYS.
   The County Highway Superintendent shall maintain a record of the roadways
included in the county highway system. Upon acceptance of a private roadway
into the county highway system, the roadway shall be designated as a county
road, identified by number or name and placed in the records of the Highway
Department.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.11  EFFECT OF HIGHWAY RECORDS AND PRIOR COUNTY MAINTENANCE.
   The Highway Department records shall be presumptive evidence in any and all
courts as to the existence of the road as a county highway. The fact that there
are certain old maps in which roadways are designated as being “state road” or
“public roads” or “county roads” shall not be binding upon the county or create
a duty upon the county to maintain the road. Likewise, the fact that the county
may have, in the past, maintained any portion of any roadway shall not be
construed to create a duty upon the county to continue the maintenance.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.12  RECORDATION OF PRIVATE ROADWAY AS A COUNTY ROAD.
   Upon acceptance and adoption of the private roadway as a county road, the
petitioner shall cause a copy of the petition of acceptance and resolution of
acceptance adopted by the Board of Commissioners to be recorded in the office
of the Recorder of the county.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.13  INTERPRETATION OF EFFECT UPON EXISTING ROADWAYS.
   This subchapter shall not be interpreted or construed to require the
upgrading of existing county highways and roadways to the minimum standards set
forth herein, nor shall it be construed to impose upon property owners and
developers a set of requirements to be applied to all private roadways
established hereafter. However, no roadway shall be accepted into the county
highway system without first meeting the minimum standards contained in this
subchapter, unless the acceptance is conditional upon the minimum standards
being first met.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.14  EFFECT.
   This subchapter shall be in effect when approved and published in accordance
with legal requirements.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The person or persons petitioning the Board of Commissioners under §§
92.01 through
92.14 shall be solely responsible for insuring the minimum standards of
acceptance. The penalty for any violation of this chapter or the falsification
of any material statement contained in the petition shall be a minimum fine of
$1,000 and a maximum fine of $2,500, plus all costs and attorneys fees for the
collection of such fines. Any suit initiated under this chapter shall be
separate from any criminal penalties imposed by law.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-15-1994)
CHAPTER 93:  TOBACCO USE
Section
   
93.01   Short title
   
93.02   Purpose
   
93.03   Application
   
93.04   Prohibition against smoking or use of tobacco of any kind within county
buildings
   
93.05   Prohibition of smoking in county-owned vehicles
   
93.06   Notice of smoking prohibition
   
93.07   Applicability and effective date
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “No Smoking Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1999-, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 2012-05, passed 6-18-2012)
§ 93.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish an orderly, uniform and
equitable policy for the regulation of the use of tobacco and electronic
cigarettes in public buildings, and places of employment, under the care and
control of the Board of Commissioners, including facilities leased by the
county for public purposes.
(Ord. 1999-, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 2012-05, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 2018-07,
passed 9-18-2018)
§ 93.03  APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to the County Courthouse, the county jail, the
courthouse annex, the 4-H building, the highway garages and all other buildings
under the care and control of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 1999-, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 2012-05, passed 6-18-2012)
§ 93.04  PROHIBITION AGAINST SMOKING OR USE OF TOBACCO OF ANY KIND WITHIN
COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall smoke, chew, consume or use tobacco or electronic
cigarettes in any manner within any public building under the care and control
of the county.
   (B)   No person shall smoke or use electronic cigarettes in a place of
employment, or within eight feet of a public entrance to any public building or
place of employment under the care and control of the county.
   (C)   All ashtrays and smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from within
eight feet of all public entrances of any public building or place of
employment under the care of control of the county.
(Ord. 1999-, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 2012-05, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 2018-07,
passed 9-18-2018)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN COUNTY-OWNED VEHICLES.
   No person shall smoke or use electronic cigarettes in a vehicle owned,
leased or operated by the county.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 2018-07, passed 9-18-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06  NOTICE OF SMOKING PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Each employee of the county shall be directly notified of the smoking
prohibition.
   (B)   Signs shall be posted at all public entrances of any public building,
or place of employment, under the care and control of the county reading “state
law prohibits smoking within eight feet of this entrance”.
   (C)   Conspicuous signs shall be posted indoors of all public buildings
under the care and control of the county reading “Smoking is prohibited by
state law”.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 6-18-2012) 
§ 93.07  APPLICABILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become in full force and effect from and after its
adoption by the Board of Commissioners and its publication in accordance with
I.C. 36-2-4-8(b) and I.C. 5-3-1.
(Ord. 1999-, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 2012-05, passed 6-18-2012)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who smokes or uses electronic cigarettes in an area where
smoking or using electronic cigarettes is prohibited commits prohibited
smoking, a Class B infraction, unless such person has been adjudged to have
committed three prior smoking related infractions, in which case prohibited
smoking is a Class A infraction.
   (B)   A person who violates any provision of this chapter other than
division (A), commits a Class A ordinance violation and may be fined the sum of
$50 per violation.
   (C)   A person who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter
other than division (A), a second time within one year of a previous violation
may be fined up to the sum of $100.
(Ord. 1999-, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 2012-05, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 2018-07,
passed 9-18-2018)
CHAPTER 94:  NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Prohibition
   
94.04   Enforcement procedure
   
94.05   When abatement notice is not required
   
94.06   Hearings
   
94.07   Appeals
   
94.08   Compliance with abatement notice
   
94.09   Failure to comply with abatement notice
   
94.10   Abatement by county
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “County Nuisance Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 5-7-2013)
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.  The County Advisory Plan Commission and its agents
or appointed representatives.
   NUISANCE.  Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction of the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property. Public nuisances
may include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   A building or structure that is in an impaired structural condition
that makes it unsafe to a person or property;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, abandoned materials,
metals and lumber;
      (3)   Automobile parts, inoperable vehicles, disassembled automobiles,
automobiles without engines;
      (4)   Any waste water, filth, offal, garbage, rubbish, animal waste,
human excrement, which is deposited, allowed or caused to be upon any public or
private property;
      (5)   Any dead animal or animal parts;
      (6)   The erection of dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the natural flow of water and causes it to collect and pool upon
any public property;
      (7)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease or is likely to cause an immediate health hazard;
      (8)   The placing or accumulating on or within any real or personal
property or the permitting of the same, of any matter which attracts rodents,
insects, domestic or wild animals in such a manner as to create a health hazard
or unsanitary or dangerous condition;
      (9)   Any real or personal property used as a place of residence or
habitation, or for sleeping that is maintained in such a way as to be dangerous
or detrimental to life or health due to lack of or defects in water, drainage,
heat, electricity, plumbing, ventilation or garbage and trash removal;
      (10)   The storage of any explosive, combustible or other material which
creates a safety or health hazard;
      (11)   Trees, shrubbery, weeds or other matter obstructing public ways,
or causing visual barriers which create vehicular traffic or pedestrian safety
hazards;
      (12)   Accumulations of stagnant water;
      (13)   Any real or personal property infested with insects, rats, vermin,
or wild or domestic animals, to a degree that prevents the reasonable use and
enjoyment of adjoining and surrounding properties.
   OF RECORD.  Recorded in the records of the County Recorder or in the records
of the County Auditor.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.  All property, including, but not limited to vacant land
or any land upon which is located one or more buildings or other structures
designated or used for residential, commercial, business, industrial,
agricultural, institutional, or religious purposes, together with any yard,
grounds, walks, driveways, fences, porches, or other structures or improvements
appurtenant to the land, except any public place.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.  The meaning as defined in I.C. 36-7-9-2, to
wit: any right in real property that may be affected in a substantial way by
actions authorized under this chapter, including a fee interest, a life estate
interest, a future interest, a mortgage interest, or an equitable interest of a
contract purchaser.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 5-7-2013)
§ 94.03  PROHIBITION.
   No person or any owner, occupant, tenant or any person have a substantial
property interest in any real or personal property within the unincorporated
limits of the county shall maintain, create, cause, place, deposit, leave or
permit a nuisance to remain on private property within the unincorporated
limits of the county.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 5-7-2013)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04  ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Authority to make inspections. Upon the receipt of a written complaint
from two unrelated individuals within a 90-day period, the County Environmental
Specialist shall be authorized to visit, enter into or upon the building, lot,
grounds or premises within the limits of the unincorporated areas of the county
for the purpose of ascertaining and discovering any nuisances to make
examination thereof.
   (B)   Initial finding of nuisance. Where, upon inspection, reasonable cause
is found to believe that a nuisance exists, the Environmental Specialist shall
issue a written report stating the factual basis for finding that a nuisance
exists (the “initial finding”). The Environmental Specialist shall submit a
copy of its report to the Enforcement Authority. In addition, if an agency
department or office of the state has jurisdiction over the type of nuisance
determined to exist, the Environmental Specialist shall also notify the
appropriate state agency, department or office of his or her findings.
   (C)   Abatement notice. Where, upon review of and concurrence with the
initial finding, the Enforcement Authority may take enforcement action,
including the issuance of an order to abate the nuisance as set forth in an
abatement notice.
   (D)   Persons entitled to notice. Abatement notices shall be served upon any
person who allegedly created the nuisance and on all persons holding a fee
interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in
the real estate upon which the nuisance is alleged to exist, as shown in the
records of the County Auditor.
   (E)   Content of the notice.  The abatement notice must contain the
following:
      (1)   The name of the person, corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship or other legal entity to which the order is issued.
      (2)   The legal description or address of the real estate where the
nuisance is located which is the subject of the notice, if applicable.
      (3)   The action that the notice requires. The ordered action must be
reasonably related to abatement of the conditions constituting the nuisance.
      (4)   The period of time within which the action ordered is required to
be accomplished, measured from the time when the abatement notice is served.
The time allowed must be a sufficient amount of time, of at least 48 hours from
the time when the abatement notice is served, to accomplish the required
action. If the notice allows for more than 30 days to accomplish the action,
the notice may require that a substantial beginning be made in accomplishing
the action within the initial 30-day period following service of the notice.
      (5)   A statement that the order becomes final ten calendar days after
notice is served, unless a hearing is requested in writing by the citizen,
corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, other legal entity, the tenant
or occupant or by a person holding a substantial property interest in the
private premises upon which the nuisance is alleged to exist. The request for a
hearing must be served upon the Enforcement Authority prior to the expiration
of the aforementioned ten calendar-day period.
      (6)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
county if there is noncompliance with the orders contained in the abatement
notice.
      (7)   The name, business address and business telephone number of the
Enforcement Authority.
   (F)   Manner of giving notice.  Service of abatement notices shall be made
by any of the following means:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail to the
business address of the persons described in §
94.04(C), or the residence or place of business or employment of the person to
be notified, with a return receipt requested;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the notice personally to the persons to be
notified;
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the notice at the business address of the persons
to be notified, or the dwelling or usual place of abode of the person to be
notified;
      (4)   Posting a copy of the notice in a prominent place upon the premises
where the nuisance is located; or
      (5)   If, after a reasonable effort, service cannot be obtained by any of
the means described in this division, service may be made by publishing the
notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. Publication shall
be made one time.
   (G)   Effective date of notice.  The date when notice is considered given is
as follows:
      (1)   If the notice is delivered personally or left at the business
office or dwelling or usual place of abode, notice is considered given on the
day when the abatement order is delivered to personally or left at the business
office or the person’s dwelling or usual place of abode.
      (2)   If the notice is mail, notice is considered given on the date shown
in on the return receipt, or, if no date is shown, on the date when the return
receipt is received by the County Auditor;
      (3)   Notice by publication is considered given on the date of
publication.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 5-7-2013)
§ 94.05  WHEN ABATEMENT NOTICE IS NOT REQUIRED.
   Where, in the opinion of the Enforcement Authority, a nuisance exists which
creates a substantial and imminent health or safety hazard requiring immediate
abatement in order to protect health and safety, the Enforcement Authority,
upon consultation with the Health Officer, shall abate the nuisance without the
necessity of issuing an abatement notice as set out §
94.03.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 5-7-2013)
§ 94.06  HEARINGS.
   (A)   Request for hearing. Any person holding a fee interest, a life estate
interest, an equitable interest as a contract purchaser or a tenancy in the
private premises upon which a nuisance is alleged to exist who disputes the
existence of a nuisance, or disputes the nature of the abatement action ordered
in the abatement notice, may, within ten calendar days of service of the
abatement notice, serve upon the Enforcement Authority a written request for
hearing. The written request does not need to be in any particular form but
shall clearly indicate that a hearing is requested and shall set out the nature
of the disagreement with the content of the abatement notice. The written
request shall also provide a mailing address for the sending the notice of
hearing date.
   (B)   Scheduling of hearing. Upon receipt of the written request for a
hearing, the Enforcement Authority shall place the matter before the Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   Notice of hearing. The Enforcement Authority shall give written notice
to the party requesting the hearing of the date and time of the hearing. The
notice shall be given no less than five calendar days prior to the date set for
the hearing.
   (D)   Burden of proof. At the hearing, which may be adjourned from time to
time, it shall be the county’s burden to go forward with evidence sufficient to
demonstrate that a nuisance exists, and that the actions required are
reasonably calculated to abate the nuisance within a reasonable period of time.
   (E)   Conduct of hearing. The party requesting the hearing shall have the
right to dispute the existence of the nuisance, the reasonableness of the
remedy, or the reasonableness of the time allowed for remedial action. The
party requesting the hearing may propose alternative remedies, an alternative
time period for remedial action, or alternate remediation plans. At the
hearing, both sides may present witnesses, elicit testimony, introduce physical
evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses or dispute evidence submitted by
their hearing opponent. Both sides may be represented by legal counsel.
   (F)   Public nature of the hearing. All such hearings shall be open to the
public pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5.
   (G)   Final decision. Upon the conclusion of the presentation of evidence
and oral argument, if any, the Board of Commissions shall deliberate and render
a written decision confirming, amending or rescinding the disputed content of
the abatement notice. The decision of the Board of Commissioners shall be
final.
   (H)   Tolling of compliance with abatement notice. All time parameters set
out in the abatement notice for completion of compliance actions shall be
tolled, pending the outcome of the Board of Commissioners’ decision. In cases
where the actions of the Enforcement Authority are upheld, or are upheld as
modified by the Board of Commissioners, it shall be the responsibility of the
Board of Commissioners, in its decision, to establish time periods for
completion of compliance activities held in abeyance during the hearing
process.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 5-7-2013)
§ 94.07  APPEALS.
   (A)   Right of appeal. The final decision rendered by the Board of
Commissioners is subject to review by the Greene Circuit or Superior Court upon
the request of any person who has a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises or any person to whom that order was issued.
   (B)   Appeal procedure. A person requesting judicial review under this
section must file a verified complaint including the findings of fact and the
action taken by the Board of Commissioners. The complaint must be filed within
ten days after the date when the action was taken. An appeal under this section
in an action de novo. The court may affirm, modify or reverse the action taken
by the hearing authority.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 5-7-2013)
§ 94.08  COMPLIANCE WITH ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   It being the intention of this chapter to promote the abatement of nuisances
within the unincorporated areas of the county in those instances where the
nuisance is abated to the satisfaction of the Enforcement Authority as required
by the Board of Commissioners after hearing, and within the time periods set
forth in the Board of Commissioners’ decision, no further fines or penalties
will be imposed. The Enforcement Authority shall make written notation of the
compliance and the enforcement file shall be closed.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 5-7-2013)
§ 94.09  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   Failure, neglect or refusal by the person, corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship, other legal entity or the record owner or his or her agent, or
the tenant or occupant, to comply with the orders set out in the abatement
notice within the time periods set out therein, or within any extended time
periods agreed to by the Enforcement Authority, shall constitute a violation of
this chapter and shall render the party upon whom the abatement notice was
served liable to a fine as set forth in §
94.10. Each day’s failure, neglect or refusal to abate the nuisance during the
time period allowed for compliance shall constitute a separate offense under
this chapter. The record owner of the premises upon which the nuisance is found
to exist, and the tenant or occupant, may be held jointly and several liable
for the payment of fines assessed under this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 5-7-2013)
§ 94.10  ABATEMENT BY THE COUNTY.
   (A)   Abatement action. In addition to the fines imposed under this section,
in non-emergency situations where abatement is not accomplished immediately by
the county, failure, neglect or refusal of any party to abate a nuisance
required by the abatement notice shall authorize the Enforcement Authority to
obtain the permission of the Board of Commissioners to abate the nuisance as
set out in the abatement notice. Where such permission is sought, the
Enforcement Authority shall file a copy of the abatement notice with the County
Recorder, to give constructive notice to subsequent purchasers of the real
estate is subject to the costs associated with the abatement, if applicable.
Work may be accomplished by county employees if the work is within their
capacity to accomplish. The work may be advertised for public bid and awarded
to the lowest responsible and responsive bidder, or the county may contract for
the work through solicitation of quotes or any other methods allowable under
state law. Upon completion of the abatement, a statement of costs incurred for
the abatement shall be forwarded to the person, corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship, other legal entity or to the record owner by certified mail.
   (B)   Civil actions. Should such costs remain unpaid ten calendar days after
receipt by the record owner, tenant or occupant, or upon return of the
certified mail as undeliverable, appropriate legal action may be taken to
compel payment of abatement costs incurred. Any judgment for abatement costs
obtained shall be filed as a judgment lien against the real estate upon which
the nuisance was abated.
   (C)   Injunctive relief/civil remedies. In the alternative, where there has
been noncompliance with the abatement notice, the county may seek equitable
relief in a court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with the
orders set out in the abatement notice. The court may issue such orders as
provided in I.C. 36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22.
   (D)   Special assessment. If all or any part of the costs listed in this
section remain unpaid for more than 15 days after completion of the work, the
Enforcement Authority may send notice as provided in §
94.04(E) to each person who held a known or recorded fee interest, life estate
interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser property the was
subject to abatement. If the notice is sent, the Enforcement Authority shall
also send notice to any mortgagee with a known or recorded substantial property
interest. The notice must require full payment of the amount owed within 30
days. If full payment of the amount owed is not made less than 30 days after
the notice is delivered, the Enforcement Authority may certify the following
information to the County Auditor: the name of each person who held a known or
recorded fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a contract
purchaser in the unsafe premises; the description of the unsafe premises, as
shown by the records of the County Auditor; and the amount of the delinquent
payment, including all costs described in section §
94.99(B). The County Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax
duplicate for the affected property as a special assessment. The total amount,
including accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are
collected. The amount collected after all other taxes have been collected and
disbursed, shall be deposited into the county general fund.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 5-7-2013)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Fines. In addition to any costs incurred for abatement under this
chapter, any person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, other legal
entity or owner, occupant or tenant of the real estate who is found to have
violated this chapter, or willfully or negligently failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter or with any orders issued hereunder, shall be fined
not less than $100 and not more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day a
violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense.
   (B)   Liability for abatement costs. When action required by an order is
performed by the Enforcement Authority or by a contractor acting under §
94.10(A), each person who held a fee interest, life estate interest, or
equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises from the time
when the order requiring the work performed was issued to the time that the
work was completed is jointly and severally responsible for the following
costs: the actual cost of the work performed by the Enforcement Authority or
the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor under §
94.10(A); and an amount that represents a reasonable forecast of the average
processing expense that will be incurred by the Enforcement Authority in taking
the technical, administrative and legal actions concerning typical unsafe
premises that are necessary under this chapter so that the action required by
an order may be performed by a contractor under §
94.10(A).
   (C)   Calculation of abatement costs. In calculating the amount of the
average processing expense, the following costs may be considered: the cost of
obtaining reliable information about the identity and location of persons who
own a substantial property interest in the unsafe premises; the cost of notice
of orders, notice of statements of rescission, notice of continued hearing,
notice of statements that public bids are to be let or that the enforcement
authority intends to accomplish the work, and notice that a hearing may be held
on the amounts indicated in the record, in accordance with §
94.10(A); salaries for employees; and the cost of supplies, equipment and
office space. The Board of Commissioners shall determine the amount of the
average processing expense at the public hearing, after notice has been given
in the same manner as is required for other official action. In determining the
average processing expense, the Board of Commissioners may fix the amount at a
full dollar amount that is an even multiple of ten.
   (D)   Attorney fees and costs of enforcement. In addition to any costs for
abatement and fines incurred for violation of this chapter, any person,
corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, other legal entity or owner,
occupant or tenant of the real estate is found to have violated this chapter,
shall be liable for all reasonable attorney fees, costs and expenses incurred
by the county in obtaining its enforcement.
   (E)   Issuance of citations. Citations for violations of this chapter may be
issued by the Enforcement Authority or by the County Sheriff. Enforcement shall
be in effect by the filing of a civil suit seeking judgment in the amount of
the fine imposed, costs of abatement, attorney fees and expenses, plus court
costs.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 5-7-2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
         
111.   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
         
112.   AMBULANCES
         
113.   FOOD MARKETS
         
114.   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110:  BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Permits
   
110.04   Permit fees
   
110.05   Inspection
   
110.06   Compliance and enforcement
   
110.07   Appeals
   
110.08   Conflict of interest
   
110.09   Repeal and effective date
§ 110.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard public health and assure
that food provided to consumers is safe, unadulterated and honestly presented.
It establishes definitions; sets standards for management and personnel; food
operations and equipment and facilities; and provides for retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment plan reviews, permits,
inspections and employee restrictions.
   (B)   This chapter defines bed and breakfast establishment, conflict of
interest, County Health Department, county official, hazard analysis critical
control point, Health Officer, Hearing Officer, imminent health hazard,
inspection report, operator, order, permit, person, retail food establishment;
and temporary food establishment; requires construction and/or alteration
plans; requires a permit and payment of permit fees for the operation of bed
and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment; prohibits sale of adulterated, unwholesome or misbranded food;
regulates inspection of the establishments; provides for compliance and the
enforcement of this chapter; provides penalties for violations of the
ordinance; and incorporates by reference I.C. 16-42-1, I.C. 16-42-2, I.C. 16-
42-5, State Department of Health Rule(s) 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-24,
410 I.A.C. 7-21-47, 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and 410 I.A.C. 7-23.
   (C)   The County Health Department is hereby authorized to issue bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or, temporary food
establishment permits, collect permit fees and penalties, perform inspections,
hold hearings, order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
chapter, and is otherwise authorized to perform all actions necessary for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 8-2-2005)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, an
operator occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. Derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-1-1(b)(2), a situation in
which the private financial interest of the county official, county official’s
spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or unemancipated child, may
influence the county official’s judgment in the performance of a public duty.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in the county or
authorized representative having jurisdiction over a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any official of Greene County, Indiana.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. As defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24, a written document that delineates the formal procedures for
following the hazard analysis critical control point principles developed by
the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer having jurisdiction in the county or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a Hearing Officer in proceedings. The HEARING OFFICER is not the
Health Officer or any other employee of the County Health Department. The
HEARING OFFICER shall be the County Health Board or a subcommittee of the
County Health Board.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any circumstance or situation, which in the opinion
of the Health Officer, presents a serious health risk to the public.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. Derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9, a County Health Department action of
particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties, privileges,
immunities or other legal interests of one or more specific persons. The term
includes a permit.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON. An association; a corporation; an individual; partnership; or other
legal entity, government or governmental subdivision or agency.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As derived from 410 I.A.C. 7-24:
      (1)   An operation that:
         (a)   Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends or otherwise provides
food for human consumption, such as:
            1.   A restaurant;
            2.   Satellite or catered feeding location;
            3.   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly
to a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
            4.   A market;
            5.   A grocery store;
            6.   A convenience store;
            7.   A vending location;
            8.   A conveyance used to transport people;
            9.   An institution; and
            10.   A food bank.
         (b)   Relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carriers.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as a transportation vehicle or
a central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority; and
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off the
premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24, a retail food
establishment that operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in
conjunction with a single event or celebration.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 8-2-2005)
§ 110.03  PERMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
the county, without first obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer. The
valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a
permit.
      (3)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
      (4)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
      (5)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment
permitted by the County Health Department shall be considered registered as
required in I.C. 16-42-1-6.
   (B)   Permit period.
      (1)   A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation, and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
      (2)   A permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for the term
of one continuous operation.
   (C)   Permit content. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit
is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other pertinent data as may be required by the County Health
Officer.
   (D)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
shall submit to the County Health Department a written application for a permit
on a form provided by the County Health Department.
   (E)   Content of the application. The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment is owned by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership or other legal entity;
      (3)   A statement specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment:
         (a)   If not permanent, is mobile and/or temporary; and
         (b)   Includes one or more of the following:
            1.   Prepares, offers for sale or serves potentially hazardous
food: as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24:
               a.   Only to order upon a consumer’s request;
               b.   In advance in quantities based on projected consumer demand
and discards food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency; or
               c.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control as specified under 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
               d.   Prepares acidified foods as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-21-3.
            2.   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps which may include combining
potentially hazardous ingredients; cooking; cooling; reheating; hot or cold
holding; freezing; or thawing;
            3.   Prepares food as specified under division (E)(3)(b)2. above
for delivery to and consumption at a location off the premises of the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment where it is prepared;
            4.   Prepares food as specified under division (E)(3)(b)2. above
for service to a highly susceptible population, as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24;
            5.   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; or
            6.   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food
that is not potentially hazardous.
      (4)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (5)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified under division
(E)(4) above such as the zone, district or regional supervisor;
      (6)   The names, titles and addresses of:
         (a)   The persons comprising the legal ownership as specified under
division (E)(6)(b) below including the owners and operators; and
         (b)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership.
      (7)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will:
            1.   Comply with this chapter; and
            2.   Allow the County Health Department access to the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment and records as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-
24.
      (8)   Other information required by the County Health Department; and
      (9)   To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
         (a)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
         (b)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
         (c)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment and provide
required information; and
         (d)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
   (F)   Plans requirements.
      (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed
and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment shall submit to
the County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for
review and approval before:
         (a)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment; or
         (c)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment or food operation if the County
Health Department determines that plans and specifications are necessary to
ensure compliance with this section.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall include the type of operation, type of
food preparation (as specified in Appendix B of the published version of 410
I.A.C. 7-24) and the menu.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
approved by the County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
      (4)   A pre-operational inspection must show that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment has been built or remodeled in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5 before a permit is issued.
   (G)   Change of ownership. The County Health Department may renew a permit
for an existing bed and breakfast establishment, and/or retail food
establishment or may issue a permit to a new owner of an existing bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment after a properly
completed application is submitted, reviewed and approved, the fees are paid,
and an inspection shows that the establishment is in compliance with this
chapter.
   (H)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the County Health Department, the operator, in order to retain the permit,
shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Health Department if an Imminent Health Hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at all
reasonable times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the County Health Department including
time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices,
orders, warnings and other directives issued by the County Health Department in
regard to the operator’s bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment or in response to community emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the County Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment that is conspicuous to
consumers.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 8-2-2005)
§ 110.04  PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has not paid the applicable
permit fee to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment in the county.
      (2)   The fee shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation and expiring December 31 of the same year, and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
      (3)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a
bed and breakfast establishment, a retail food establishment and/or a temporary
food establishment shall be set by the Health Department, as provided by the
statutes of the state. (See I.C. 16-20-1-27.)
      (4)   A receipt for the payment of a fee shall be provided by the County
Health Department.
      (5)   The payment of the fees shall be required for each bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment operated or to be operated by any person.
   (B)   Exemption from permit fees. An organization that is exempt from the
State Gross Income Tax under I.C. 6-3-2-2.8 and offers food for sale to the
final consumer at an event held for the benefit of the organization is exempt
from the payment of fees. This exemption only applies to organization(s) that
meet the criteria addressed in I.C. 6-3-2-2.8. The Health Officer shall be
provided, upon request, proof of an organization’s tax exempt status.
   (C)   Late fees. A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the
operation of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment or the late fee for failure to renew a permit after the
expiration of the permit to operate bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment shall be assessed as set from time to time by the
County Health Board. The payment of fees under this chapter is not transferable
or refundable.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 8-2-2005)
§ 110.05  INSPECTION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The County Health Department shall inspect a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment at least once every six months.
      (2)   The County Health Department may increase the interval between
inspections beyond six months if:
         (a)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is fully operating under an approved and validated hazard
analysis critical control point (HACCP) plan(s); and
         (b)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a
written risk-based inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied
throughout the jurisdiction.
      (3)   The County Health Department may contact the operator to determine
that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The County Health Department shall
periodically inspect throughout its permit period a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells or serves unpackaged potentially hazardous
food and may inspect a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or
serves unpackaged, non-potentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as handwashing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, warewashing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (C)   Performance and risk based inspections. Within the parameters
specified in division (A) above, the County Health Department shall prioritize,
and conduct more frequent inspections based upon its assessment of a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment’s history of
compliance with this chapter and the bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment’s potential as a vector of food-borne illness by
evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance, for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C.
7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or
non-critical;
      (2)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C.
7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are
noncritical;
      (3)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be
valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored or served;
      (5)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation and service;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
   (D)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice.
      (1)   After the County Health Department presents official credentials
and provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection,
the operator shall allow the County Health Department to determine if the bed
and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food
establishment is in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the
establishment, allowing inspection, and providing information and records
specified in this chapter. The County Health Department is entitled the
information and records according to I.C. 16-42-1-13 and I.C. 16-42-5-23,
during the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment’s
hours of operation and other reasonable times.
      (2)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
      (3)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law. (See I.C. 16-20-1-26.)
   (E)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the County
Health Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and
the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person-in-charge, as
required under I.C. 16-20-8-5. A copy of the completed inspection report will
remain on file at the County Health Department for a period of at least five
years from the date of the inspection.
   (F)   Timely correction of critical violations.
      (1)   Except as specified in the next paragraph, an operator shall at the
time of inspection correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410
I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and implement corrective actions for a HACCP
plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit.
      (2)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Health Department may
agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator
to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (3)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the County Health Department shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the County Health Department’s records.
   (G)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment.
      (1)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator’s obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
      (2)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/
or temporary food establishment.
      (3)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of
the County Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
   (H)   Public information. Except as specified in § 176 (Trade Secrets) of
410 I.A.C. 7-24, the County Health Department shall treat the inspection report
as a public document and shall make it available for disclosure to a person who
requests it as provided in law. (See I.C. 16-20-8-6.)
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 8-2-2005)
§ 110.06  COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment is denied, the Greene County Health Department
shall provide the applicant with a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit suspension. The County Health Department may suspend a permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment if it determines through inspection, or
examination of employee, food, records or other means as specified in this
chapter, that an imminent health hazard exists.
   (C)   Ceasing operation and contacting the County Health Department.
      (1)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment shall immediately discontinue
operations and notify the County Health Department if an imminent health hazard
may exist because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption
of electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic
materials, onset of an apparent food-borne illness outbreak, gross unsanitary
occurrence or condition or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
      (2)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (D)   Resuming operation. If a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment has discontinued operations
for the reasons stated above or otherwise according to law, the operator must
obtain approval from the County Health Department before resuming operations.
   (E)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a
permit may not be issued.
   (F)   Enforcement options. In the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, the County Health Department may proceed and/or recommend one or more
enforcement options:
      (1)   The County Health Board may adopt a policy for the issuing of
citations based on violation of the retail food establishment and/or bed and
breakfast establishment requirements. Appeals from any citation shall follow
the procedure set forth in §
110.07 before initiation of the trial process.
      (2)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension and/or revocation
of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment permit in front of a Hearing Officer.
      (3)   The County Health Officer may issue an “order to abate” based on a
condition that may transmit, generate or promote disease. Failure on the part
of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement of the
order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the Board
of Health Attorney, County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney.
      (4)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation,
request the Board of Health Attorney, the County Attorney or County Prosecuting
Attorney to institute a proceeding in the courts for the enforcement of the
ordinance violation, in that manner set forth by I.C. 34-28-5-1. The maximum
penalty which may be levied for the violation may not exceed $1,000. In
addition to the penalties, any person who violates any provision of the chapter
shall be liable for the costs of litigation including, but not limited to,
attorney fees, deposition fees, the cost of expert witnesses, lab testing
expenses and court costs.
      (5)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense,
request the Board of Health Attorney, the County Attorney or County Prosecuting
Attorney to institute a proceeding in the courts for enforcement. (See I.C. 16-
20-1-25(c).)
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 8-2-2005)
§ 110.07  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under §
110.06(F)(1) through (3) above shall be entitled to a review of the final order
before a Hearing Officer by filing a written request therefor with the Health
Officer (Secretary of the County Board of Health; see I.C. 16-20-1-10). The
written request must be mailed or hand delivered to Health Officer, 217 East
Spring Street, Suite #1, Bloomfield, IN 47424, and must be received within 15
days after the final order is issued.
   (B)   After the Health Officer’s receipt of the request, the Hearing Officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. (A shorter period of time
may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.)
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person’s mailing address or
other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to the
Health Officer.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer shall establish the rules of procedure and shall
advise the parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final order or determination of this matter in writing.
   (F)   The final order completes the administrative appeals procedure.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 8-2-2005)
§ 110.08  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No County Health Department Official shall conduct himself or herself in a
manner that is or could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 8-2-2005)
§ 110.09  REPEAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter are
hereby repealed, and this chapter shall be in full force and effect 30 days
after its adoption and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 8-2-2005)
CHAPTER 111:  SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
111.01   Prohibition of the sale of products
   
111.02   Prohibition against incineration or ignition of products
   
111.03   Effective date
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  PROHIBITION OF THE SALE OF PRODUCTS.
   The  following products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”) shall
not be sold, marketed or offered for sale within the county:
   (A)    (6aR,10aE)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10J0a- tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-l-01, also known as HU-210;
   (B)   l-Pentyl-3-(l-naphtoyl)indole, also known as JWH-108;
   (C)   l-Butyl-3-(l-naphoyl)indole, also known as JWH-073;
   (D)   Cannabicyclohexonol; or
   (E)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative (divisions (A) through (D)
above are collectively referred to as “products”).
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 10-4-2010)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02  PROHIBITION AGAINST INCINERATION OR IGNITION OF PRODUCTS.
   The products described in §
111.01 shall not be burned, incinerated or ignited in any public place or on
any property owned, leased or controlled by the county.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 10-4-2010)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon publication, as provided
in I.C. 36-2-4-8 and I.C. 5-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 10-4-2010)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4. Accordingly, this chapter shall be enforced by the provisions of
I.C. 34-28-5-5.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 10-4-2010)
CHAPTER 112:  AMBULANCES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application for ambulance licenses
   
112.04   Standards for ambulance licenses; liability insurance
   
112.05   Duties of license officer
   
112.06   Standards for ambulance equipment
   
112.07   Applications for drivers, attendant-drivers license
   
112.08   Standards for drivers, attendants and attendant-drivers; license
   
112.09   Renewal of license
   
112.10   Revocation of license
   
112.11   Reports
   
112.12   Obedience to traffic laws, ordinances and regulations
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. Any privately or publicly owned motor vehicle that is specially
designed or constructed, and equipped, and is intended to be used for and is
maintained or operated for the transformation of patients, including funeral
coaches or hearses which otherwise comply with the provisions to this chapter,
except any motor vehicle owned by or operated under the direct control of the
United States.
   ATTENDANT. A trained or qualified individual responsible for the operation
of an ambulance and the care of the patients whether or not the attendant also
serves as driver.
   ATTENDANT-DRIVER. A person who is qualified as an attendant and a driver.
   DRIVER. An individual who drives an ambulance.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer or other designated official.
   LICENSE OFFICER. The County Sanitarian.
   PATIENT. An individual who is sick, injured, wounded or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, group of individuals acting together for a common purpose or
organization of any kind, including any governmental agency other than the
United States.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 112.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, either as owner, agent or otherwise shall furnish, operate,
conduct, maintain, advertise or otherwise be engaged in or profess to be
engaged in the business or service of the transportation of patients upon the
streets, alleys or any public way or place of the county, unless he or she
holds a currently valid license for an ambulance, issued pursuant to this
chapter. An ambulance operated by an agency of the United States shall not be
required to be licensed hereunder.
   (B)   No ambulance shall be operated for ambulance purposes, and no
individual shall drive, attend or permit it to be operated for the purposes on
the streets, alleys or any public way or place of the county, unless it shall
be under the immediate supervision and direction of a person who is holding a
currently valid license as an attendant-driver or attendant.
   (C)   Provided, however, that, no licenses shall be required for an
ambulance, or for the driver, attendant or attendant-driver of an ambulance,
which:
      (1)   Is rendering assistance to licensed ambulance in the case of a
major catastrophe or emergency with which the licensed ambulances of the county
are insufficient or unable to cope; or
      (2)   Is operated from a location or headquarters outside of the county
in order to transport patients who are picked up beyond the limits of the
county to locations within the county or to transport patients within the
county to locations beyond the limits of the county, but no outside ambulance
shall be used to pick up patients within the county for transportation to
locations within the county unless the driver, attendant and attendant-driver
and the person subject to the provisions of division (A) above in respect of
the ambulance, hold currently valid license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03  APPLICATION FOR AMBULANCE LICENSES.
   Applications for ambulance licenses hereunder shall be made upon forms as
may be prepared or prescribed by the License Officer and shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant and of the owner of the
ambulance;
   (B)   The trade or other fictitious name, if any, under which the applicant
does business and proposes to do business;
   (C)   The training and experience of the applicant in the transportation and
care of patients;
   (D)   A description of each ambulance, including the make, model, year of
manufacture, motor and chassis number; current sate license number, the length
of time the ambulance has been in use; and the color scheme, insignia, name,
monograms or other distinguishing characteristics to be used in designate
applicant’s ambulance;
   (E)   The location and descriptions of the place or places from which it is
intended to operate;
   (F)   Other information as the License Officer shall deem reasonably
necessary to a fair determination of compliance with this chapter; and
   (G)   An accompanying license fee of $15.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 112.04  STANDARDS FOR AMBULANCE LICENSES; LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Each ambulance shall, at all times when in use as such:
      (1)   Be suitable for the transportation of patients from the standpoint
of health, sanitation and safety, and be maintained in suitable premises;
      (2)   Contain equipment conforming with the standards, requirements and
regulations provided for herein, which equipment shall be in proper and good
condition for the use;
      (3)   Currently comply with all applicable laws and local ordinances
relating to health, sanitation and safety;
      (4)   Be equipped with lights, sirens and special marking to designate it
as an ambulance as may be prescribed in reasonable regulations promulgated by
the License Officer; and
      (5)   Be equipped with approved safety belts for the driver, and for a
passenger in the front seat if the seat is provided.
   (B)   Any change of ownership of a licensed ambulance shall terminate the
license and shall require a new application and a new license and conformance
with all the requirements of this chapter as upon original licensing.
   (C)   Application for transfer of any ambulance license to another or
substitute vehicle shall require conformance with all the requirements of this
chapter as upon original licensing. No ambulance license may be sold, assigned,
mortgaged or otherwise transferred without the approval of the License Officer
and a finding of conformance with all the requirements of this chapter as upon
original licensing. A fee of $5 shall accompany each application for a transfer
of an ambulance license.
   (D)   Each licensed ambulance, its equipment and the premises designated in
the application and all records relating to its maintenance and operation as
such, shall be open to inspection by the License Officer or his or her
designated representatives during usual hours of operation.
   (E)   No official entry made upon a license may be defaced, removed or
obliterated.
   (F)   No ambulance license shall be issued under this chapter, nor shall the
license be valid after issuance, nor shall any ambulance be operated in the
county, unless there is at all times in force and effect insurance coverage, at
the expense of license and with the Board of Commissioners of the county as
named insured, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the
state, for each and every ambulance owned or operated by or for the applicant
or licensee, providing for the payment of damages:
      (1)   For injury to or death of individuals in accidents resulting from
any cause for which the owner of the vehicle would be liable on account of
liability imposed on him or her by law, regardless of whether the ambulance was
being driven by the owner or his or her agent, in the amount of $100,000 with
respect to one person, and $300,000 in respect to any one occurrence or
accident; and
      (2)   For the loss of or damage to the property of another, including
personal property, in the amount of $50,000 in respect to one person, and
$100,000 in respect to one occurrence or accident.
   (G)   The insurance policies shall be submitted to the License Officer for
approval by the County Attorney prior to the issuance of each ambulance
license. Satisfactory evidence that the insurance is at all times in force and
effect shall be furnished to the license officer, in a form as he or she may
specify, by all licensees required to provide the insurance under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Every insurance policy required hereunder shall extend for the period
to be covered by the license applied for and the insurer shall be obliged to
give not less than ten days written notice to the License Officer and to the
assured before any cancellation or termination thereof earlier than its
expiration date and the cancellation or other termination of any policy shall
automatically revoke and terminate the license issued for the ambulances
covered by the policy, unless another insurance policy complying with the
provisions of this section shall be provided and be in effect at the time of
the cancellation or termination.
   (I)   Every insurance policy required hereunder shall contain a provision
for a continuing liability thereunder to the full amount thereof,
notwithstanding any recovery thereon, that the liability of the insurer shall
not be affected by the insolvency or the bankruptcy of the insured, and that
until the policy is revoked the insurance company will not be relieved from
liability on account of non-payment of premium, failure to renew license at the
end of the year, or any act or omission of the named assured. The policy of
insurance shall be further conditioned for the payment of any judgments up to
the limits of the policy, recovered against any person other than the owner,
his or her agent or employee, who may operate the same with the consent or
acquiescence of the owner.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  DUTIES OF LICENSE OFFICER.
   (A)   The License Officer shall, within ten days after receipt of an
application for an ambulance license as provided for herein, cause the
investigation as he or she deems necessary to be made of the applicant and of
his or her proposed operations.
   (B)   The License Officer shall issue a license hereunder for a specified
ambulance, to be valid for a period of one year unless earlier suspended,
revoked or terminated, when he or she finds that:
      (1)   The public convenience and necessity require the proposed ambulance
service;
      (2)   Each ambulance, its required equipment and the premises designated
in the application, comply with the standards prescribed herein;
      (3)   The applicant is a responsible and proper person to conduct or work
in the proposed business;
      (4)   Only duly licensed drivers, attendants and attendant-drivers are
employed in those capacities; and
      (5)   All the requirements of this chapter and all other applicable laws
and ordinances have been met.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of any ambulance license hereunder, the License
Officer shall cause to be inspected the vehicles, equipment and premises
designated in each application hereunder to determine compliance with the
standards prescribed herein.
   (D)   Subsequent to issuance of an ambulance license hereunder, the License
Officer shall cause to be inspected each licensed vehicle, and its equipment
and premises, whenever he or she deems the inspection to be necessary, but, in
any event, no less frequently than twice each year. The periodic inspection
required hereunder shall be in addition to any other safety or motor vehicle
inspection required to be made for ambulances or other motor vehicles, or other
inspections required to be made under general law or ordinances, and shall not
excuse compliance with any requirement of law or ordinance to display any
official certificate of motor vehicle inspection and approval, nor excuse
compliance with the requirements of any other applicable general law or
ordinance.
   (E)   A copy of each initial, semi-annual or other ambulance, equipment and
premises inspection report by the License Officer under the provisions of this
section shall be promptly transmitted to the applicant or licensee to whom it
refers.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 112.06  STANDARDS FOR AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Required equipment in each ambulance shall include, at all times when
the ambulance is in use as such, equipment adequate in the judgment of the
Health Officer for dressing wounds, splinting fractures, controlling hemorrhage
and providing oxygen.
   (B)   The Health Officer is authorized and directed to promulgate
regulations, after public notice and opportunity for public hearing, to
implement the standards provided herein as to required equipment in ambulances.
In determining the adequacy of equipment, the Health Officer shall take into
consideration the current list of minimal equipment for ambulances, adopted by
the American College of Surgeons or its duly authorized Committee on Trauma,
and applicable federal statutes and regulations. Each licensee of an ambulance
shall comply with reasonable regulations hereunder as may be promulgated by the
Health Officer and shall maintain in each ambulance, at all times when it is in
use as such, all equipment as may be prescribed by the Health Officer
hereunder.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 112.07  APPLICATIONS FOR DRIVERS, ATTENDANT-DRIVERS LICENSE.
   Applications for drivers, attendants and attendant-drivers licenses
hereunder shall be made upon forms as may be prepared or prescribed by the
License Officer and shall contain:
   (A)   The applicant’s full name, current residence, places of residence for
three years previous to moving to his or her present address and length of time
he or she has resided at his or her current residence;
   (B)   Whether he or she has ever been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor,
and if so, when and where and for what cause;
   (C)   The applicant’s training and experience in the training and experience
in the transportation and care of patients and whether he or she has previously
been licensed as a driver, chauffeur, attendant or attendant-driver, and if so,
when and where, and whether his or her license has ever been revoked or
suspended in any jurisdiction and for what cause;
   (D)   Affidavits of good character from two reputable citizens of the United
States and residents of the state who have personally known the applicant and
observed his or her conduct during two years next preceding the date of his or
her application;
   (E)   Other information as the License Officer shall deem reasonably
necessary to a fair determination of compliance with this chapter; and
   (F)   An accompanying license fee of $15.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 112.08  STANDARDS FOR DRIVERS, ATTENDANTS AND ATTENDANT-DRIVERS; LICENSE.
   (A)   The License Officer shall within ten days after receipt of an
application as provided for herein, cause an investigation as he or she deems
necessary to be made of the applicant for drivers, attendants or attendant-
drivers license.
   (B)   The License Officer shall issue a license to a driver, attendant or
attendant or attendant-driver hereunder, valid for a period of one year, unless
earlier suspended, revoked or terminated, when he or she finds that the
applicant:
      (1)   Is not addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors or narcotics,
has a satisfactory driving record, and is morally fit for the position;
      (2)   Is able to speak, read and write the English language;
      (3)   Has been found by a duly licensed physician, upon examination
attested to on a form provided by the Health Officer to be of sound physique,
possessing eyesight corrected to at least 20/40 in the better eye, and free of
physical defects or diseases which might impair the ability to drive or attend
an ambulance; and
      (4)   For each applicant for attendant or attendant-drivers license, that
the applicant has a currently valid certificate evidencing successful
completion of a course of training equivalent to the advanced course in first
aid given by the American Red Cross or the United States Bureau of Mines.
   (C)   Provided, however, that, no one shall be licensed as a driver or
attendant-driver unless he or she holds a currently valid chauffeur’s permit
from the state.
   (D)   A license as a driver, attendant or attendant-driver issued hereunder
shall not be assignable or transferable.
   (E)   No official entry made upon a license may be defaced, removed
obliterated.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 112.09  RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Renewal of any license hereunder, upon expiration for any reason or after
revocation shall require conformance with all the requirements of this chapter
as upon original licensing.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 112.10  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The License Officer may, and is hereby authorized to suspend or revoke a
license issued hereunder for failure of a licensee to comply and to maintain
compliance with, or for his or her violation of any applicable provisions,
standards or requirements of this chapter, or of regulations promulgated
hereunder, but only after warning and a reasonable time for compliance as may
be set by the License Officer. A licensee shall be entitled to a hearing before
the County Board of Health on a license revocation or suspension by filing a
petition for a hearing within 15 days after the revocation or suspension.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 112.11  REPORTS.
   (A)   Each licensee of an ambulance hereunder shall maintain accurate
records upon forms as may be provided or prescribed by and containing
information as may be required by the License Officer concerning the
transportation of each patient within the county, or from one place herein or
another place within or beyond its limits. The records shall be available for
inspection by the License Officer at any reasonable time.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall apply with equal force in
case the patient shall die before being so transported in the ambulance or dies
while being transported therein or at any time prior to the acceptance of the
patient into the responsibility of the hospital or medical or other authority
if the patient is still under the care or responsibility of the ambulance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 112.12  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LAWS, ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   The driver of an ambulance shall, at all times, obey the traffic laws of the
county and the state, except as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   The driver of an ambulance, when responding to an emergency call or
while transporting a patient, may exercise the privileges set forth in this
section, but subject to the conditions herein stated, and only when the driver
has reasonable grounds to believe that an emergency in fact exists requiring
the exercise of the privileges.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of division (A), the driver of an ambulance
may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the otherwise applicable provisions
of law, ordinance or regulations;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits permitted by law, ordinance or
regulation so long as he does not endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard laws, ordinances or regulations governing direction or
movement or turning in specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted shall apply only when the ambulance is
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of law,
ordinance or regulations.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an ambulance
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall
the provisions protect the driver from the consequences of his or her reckless
disregard for the safety of others.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating, or failing to comply with any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined an amount not exceeding $100, plus all costs and
attorneys fees for the collection of such fines, or imprisoned for a period not
exceeding 90 days, or be both so fined and imprisoned, for each offense.
   (B)   Each day that any violation of, or failure to comply with, this
chapter is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense under this section and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 113:  FOOD MARKETS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Permits
   
113.03   Licenses and license fee
   
113.04   License and license fee exemption
   
113.05   Minimum sanitation requirements
   
113.06   Sale and condemnation of misbranded, unwholesome or adulterated food
items
   
113.07   Disease control
   
113.08   Procedure when infection indicated
   
113.09   Frequency of food market inspection
   
113.10   Procedure when violations noted
   
113.11   Authority to inspect and to copy records
   
113.12   Final inspection, prosecution or hearing for violators
   
113.13   Revocation of permit
   
113.14   Suspension of permit
   
113.15   Reinstatement of permit
   
113.16   Approval of plans
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who comes in contact with any utensil or equipment in
which food is prepared or stored, or who is employed in a room or place in
which food is prepared, processed, displayed or sold.
   FOOD. All articles used for food, drink, confectionery or condiment, whether
simple, mixed or compound, and all substances or ingredients used in the
preparation thereof.
   FOOD MARKET. Retail grocery, meat market, poultry market, fish market, fresh
fruit and vegetable market, delicatessen, confectionery, candy kitchen, nut
store, retail bakery store or any other  establishment where food, intended for
human consumption is manufactured, produced, stored, prepared, processed,
handled, transported, sold or offered for sale at retail.
   GREENE COUNTY. Those rural and urban areas which are under the jurisdiction
of the County Health Officer and shall not apply to incorporated cities to
towns, except as provided for under authority of Chapter 80, Indiana Acts of
1953, and Chapter 118, Indiana Acts for 1957, being I.C. 36-1-3 et seq.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer or his or her authorized
representative.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate or municipality,
or his, her or its local representative or agent.
   UTENSIL. All containers, or any equipment of any kind or nature with which
food comes in contact after delivery to a food market, during storage,
preparation, processing, display or sale.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.02  PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food market in the
county, who does not possess a valid permit from the Health Officer. The permit
shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the food market. Only persons who
comply with the applicable requirements of this chapter shall be entitled to
receive and retain a permit. The permit for a food market shall be for a term
of one year beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year and
shall be renewed annually. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall
contain the name and address of the person to whom the permit is granted, the
address of the premises for which the same is issued and pertinent data as may
be required by the Health Officer.
   (B)   A separate permit shall be required for each food market operated or
to be operated by any person. A permit issued under this chapter is not
transferable.
   (C)   A permit shall be issued to any person or application after inspection
and approval of the Health Officer; provided that, the food market complies
with all the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No permit or renewal thereof shall be denied or revoked on arbitrary
or capricious grounds.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03  LICENSES AND LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food market in the
county, who does not possess a valid license for operation of the
establishment. The license shall be for a term of one year beginning January 1
and expiring December 31 of the same year and shall be renewed annually.
   (B)   The license shall be provided by the County Health Department, if
there is presented at his or her office a valid permit from the Health Officer,
together with $5 or with $3, if the application for license is made on or after
June 1.
   (C)   A separate license shall be required for each food market operated or
to be operated by any person. A license issued under this chapter is not
transferable.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04  LICENSE AND LICENSE FEE EXEMPTION.
   Mobile food markets owned by a person operating a food market which is
licensed under the provisions of this chapter, and possessing valid permit from
the Health Officer to operate a food market, shall be exempt from the
provisions of §
113.02(B).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.05  MINIMUM SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All food markets shall comply with the minimum sanitation requirements
specified by the State Board of Health as now provided in its Regulation HFD 19
or as the same may be hereafter changed or amended. The regulation and any
changes and amendments thereto which may be hereafter adopted or promulgated
are by reference incorporated herein and made part hereof, two copies of which
are on file in the office of the Clerk of the county, for public inspection.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06  SALE AND CONDEMNATION OF MISBRANDED, UNWHOLESOME OR ADULTERATED FOOD
ITEMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell through a food market any
food which is unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded.
   (B)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Officer as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from contamination, adulteration
or misbranding. The Health Officer may, on written notice to the owner or
operator, impound and forbid the sale of any food which is unwholesome,
adulterated or misbranded, or which he or she has probable cause to believe is
unfit for human consumption, unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded; provided
that, in the case of misbranding which can be corrected by proper labeling, the
food may be released to the operator for correct labeling under the supervision
of the Health Officer. The Health Officer may also cause to be removed or
destroyed any dairy product, meat, meat produce, seafood, poultry, poultry
product, confectionery, bakery product, vegetable, fruit or other perishable
articles which, in his or her opinion, are unsound, or contain any filthy,
decomposed or putrid substance, or that may be poisonous or deleterious to
health or otherwise unsafe.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07  DISEASE CONTROL.
   No person who is affected with any disease in a communicable form or is a
carrier of a disease shall work in any food market, and no food market shall
employ any person or any person believed to be affected with any disease in a
communicable form or of being a carrier of a disease. If the food market
manager has reason to believe that any employee has contracted any disease in a
communicable form or has become a carrier of a disease, he or she shall notify
the Health Officer immediately.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08  PROCEDURE WHEN INFECTION INDICATED.
   When the Health Officer has reason to believe there exists possibility of
transmission of infection from any food market employee, the Health Officer is
authorized to require any or all of the following measures:
   (A)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all food markets;
   (B)   The immediate closing of the market concerned until no further danger
of disease outbreak exists in the opinion of the Health Officer; and
   (C)   Adequate medical examination of the employee and of his or her
associates with a laboratory examination as may be indicated.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09  FREQUENCY OF FOOD MARKET INSPECTION.
   At lease once each six months, the Health Officer shall inspect each food
market for which a permit is required under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.10  PROCEDURE WHEN VIOLATIONS NOTED.
   If, during the inspection of any food market, the Health Officer discovers
the violation of any of the sanitation requirements in §
113.03, he or she shall issue a written order listing the violations to the
proprietor or, in his or her absence, to the person in charge and fixing a time
within which the proprietor  of the food market shall abate and remedy the
violations. A copy of the written order shall be filed with the records of
Health Department.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.11  AUTHORITY TO INSPECT AND TO COPY RECORDS.
   The person operating the food market shall, upon the request of the Health
Officer, permit the Health Officer or his or her authorized representative
access to all parts of the food market and shall permit the Health Officer or
his or her authorized representative to collect evidence and/or exhibits and to
copy any or all records relative to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12  FINAL INSPECTION, PROSECUTION OR HEARING FOR VIOLATORS.
   If, upon a second and final inspection, the Health Officer finds that the
food market, person or employee is violating any of the provisions of this
chapter which were in violation on the previous inspection, and concerning
which a written order was issued, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of
the violation to the prosecutor having jurisdiction in the county in which the
violation occurs, and he or she shall prosecute all persons violating the
provisions of this chapter. The Health Officer may promptly issue a written
order to the permittee of the food market to appear at a certain time, no later
than ten days from the date of final inspection, and at a place in the county
fixed in the order to show cause why the permit issued under the provisions of
§
113.02(A) should not be revoked.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.13  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Health Officer, upon the hearing if the permittee should fail to show
cause, shall revoke the permit and promptly give written notice of the action
to the permittee. The Health Officer shall maintain a permanent record of his
or her proceedings filed in the office of the Health Department.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.14  SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit issued under this chapter may be temporarily suspended by
the Health Officer without notice or hearing for a period of not to exceed 30
days, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Insanitary or other conditions which in the Health Officer’s
opinion endangers the public’s health; and
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer or any of his or her
authorized representatives in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   Provided, however, that upon written application from the permittee,
served upon the Health Officer within 15 days after the suspension, the Health
Officer shall conduct a hearing upon the matter after giving at least five
days’ written notice of the time, place and purpose thereof to be suspended
permittee; provided further that, any suspension order shall be issued by the
Health Officer in writing and served upon the permittee by leaving a copy at
his or her usual place of business or by delivery of registered or certified
mail to the address.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.15  REINSTATEMENT OF PERMIT.
   Any person whose permit has been suspended may at any time make application
to the local health office for the reinstatement of his or her permit.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.16  APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   All food markets which are hereafter constructed or altered shall conform
with the applicable requirements set forth in §
113.03. Properly prepared plans and specifications shall be submitted to and
approved by the Health Officer as may be required before starting any work.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. On conviction the violator shall be punished
for the first offense by a fine of not more than $500, plus all costs and
attorneys fees for the collection of such fines; for the second offense by a
fine of not more than $1,000, plus all costs and attorneys fees for the
collection of such fines; and for a third offense and each subsequent offense
by a fine of not more than $1,000, plus all costs and attorneys fees for the
collection of such fines, to which may be added imprisonment for any
determinate period not exceeding 90 days. Each day of operation of a food
market in violation of §
113.02(A) or after the expiration of the time limit for abating insanitary
conditions and completing improvements to abate the conditions as ordered by
the Health Officer shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 114:  FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Permits
   
114.03   License and license fee
   
114.04   License and fee exception
   
114.05   Minimum requirements for food service establishments
   
114.06   Sale, examination and condemnation of unwholesome, adulterated or
misbranded food
   
114.07   Inspection of food service establishments; frequency of inspection
   
114.08   Procedure when violations noted
   
114.09   Authority to inspect and to copy records
   
114.10   Final inspection; prosecution or hearing for violators
   
114.11   Revocation of permit
   
114.12   Suspension of permit
   
114.13   Reinstatement of permit
   
114.14   Inspection of temporary food service establishments frequency
   
114.15      Procedure to follow when any violation noted
   
114.16   Authority to inspect and to copy records
   
114.17   Revocation of permit and penalties for continued operation
   
114.18   Approval of plans
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULTERATED AND MISBRANDED. The meanings as provided in I.C. 16-42-1 et
seq., known as the Indiana Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
   CLOSED. Fitted together snugly leaving no openings large enough to permit
the entrance of vermin.
   CORROSION-RESISTANT MATERIAL. A material which maintains its original
surface characteristics under prolonged influence of the food, cleaning
compounds and sanitizing solutions which may contact it.
   EASILY CLEANABLE. Readily accessible and of a material and finish, and so
fabricated that residue may be completely removed by normal cleaning methods.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person working in a food service establishment who transports
food or food containers, who engages in food preparation or service or who
comes in contact with any food, food utensils or equipment.
   EQUIPMENT. All stoves, ranges, hoods, tables, counters, food or utensil
carts, refrigerators, sinks, dish washing machines, steam tables and similar
items, other than utensils, used in the operation of a food service
establishment.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked, or processed edible substances, beverage or
ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human
consumption.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any food service establishment; restaurant;
coffee shop; cafeteria; short-order café; luncheonette; grill; tea room;
sandwich shop; soda fountain; tavern; bar, cocktail lounge; night club;
industrial feeding establishment; private, public or nonprofit organization or
institution routinely serving food, a catering kitchen or nonprofit
organization or institution routinely serving food, a catering kitchen, a
commissary or similar place in which food or drink is prepared for sale or for
service on the premises or elsewhere; and any other eating or drinking
establishment or operation where food is served or provided for human
consumption with or without charge. The term FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT,
however, shall not include a food establishment licensed by the State Board of
Health or one that is known as a food market or vending machine.
   FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES. Those surfaces of equipment and utensils with which
food normally comes in contact, and those surfaces with which food may come in
contact and drain back into food or onto surfaces normally in contact with
food.
   FOOD-PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial establishment in which food is
processed or otherwise prepared, packaged or manufactured for human
consumption.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer or his or her authorized
representative.
   KITCHENWARE. All multi-use utensils other than tableware used in the
storage, preparation, conveying or serving of food.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any food service establishment capable of
being readily moved from location to location, one without a fixed location.
   PERISHABLE FOOD. Any food of a type or in a condition as may spoil.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate or municipality,
or his, her or its legal representative or agent.
   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD. Any food which consists in whole or in part of
milk or milk products, eggs, meat, poultry, fish, shellfish or other food
capable of supporting growth of infectious or toxigenic microorganisms.
   SAFE TEMPERATURES. As applied to potentially hazardous food, shall mean food
temperatures of 45°F or below, and 140°F or above.
   SANITIZE. Effective bactericidal treatment of clean surfaces of equipment
and utensils by a process which has been approved by the Health Officer as
being effective in destroying micro-organism, including pathogens.
   SEALED. Free of cracks or other openings which permit the entry or passage
of moisture.
   SINGLE-SERVICE ARTICLES. Cups, containers, lids or closures, plates, knives,
forks, spoons, stirrers, paddles, straws, place mats, napkins, doilies,
wrapping materials and all similar articles which are constructed wholly or in
part from paper, paperboard, molded pulp, foil, wood, plastic, synthetic or
other readily destructible materials, and which are intended by the
manufacturers and generally recognized by the public as for one usage only,
then to be discarded.
   TABLEWARE. All multi-use eating and drinking utensils, including flatware
(knives, forks and spoons).
   TEMPORARY FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any food service establishment which
operated for a temporary period of time, not to exceed two weeks, in connection
with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition or similar transitory
gathering.
   UTENSIL. Any tableware and kitchenware used in the storage, preparation,
conveying or serving of food.
   WHOLESOME. In sound condition, clean, free from adulteration and otherwise
suitable for use as human food.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.02  PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food service
establishment, mobile food service establishment or temporary food service
establishment in the county, who does not possess a valid permit from the
Health Officer. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the food
service establishment, mobile food service establishment or temporary food
service establishment. Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements
of this chapter shall be entitled to receive and retain a permit. The permit
for a food service establishment and a mobile food service establishment shall
be for a term of one year beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the
same year, and shall be  renewed annually. The permit for a temporary food
service establishment shall be renewed annually. The permit for a temporary
food service establishment shall be for the term of one continuous operation.
Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name and address of
the person to whom the permit is granted, the address of the premises for which
the same is issued and other pertinent data as may be required by the Health
Officer.
   (B)   A separate permit shall be required for food service establishment,
mobile food service establishment, temporary food service establishment
operated or to be operated by any person. A permit issued under this chapter is
not transferable.
   (C)   A permit shall be issued to any person on application after inspection
and approval by the Health Officer; provided that, the food service
establishment, mobile food service establishment or temporary food service
establishment complies with all the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No permit or renewal thereof shall be denied or revoked on arbitrary
or capricious grounds.
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                         
114.99
§ 114.03  LICENSE AND LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food service
establishment or mobile food service establishment in the county, who does not
possess a valid license for the operation of the establishment. The license
shall be for a term of one year beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of
the same year and shall be renewed annually.
   (B)   The license shall be provided by the Health Department, if there is
presented at his or her office a valid permit from the Health Officer together
with $5, or with $3, if the application for license is made on or after June 1.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who desired to operate a temporary food service
establishment in the county shall, after securing a permit from the Health
Officer, obtain from the County Health Department, a license for a temporary
food service establishment.
      (2)   The license shall be provided by the County Health Department, if
there is presented at his or her office a valid permit from the Health Officer,
together with $5.
   (D)   (1)   A separate license shall be required for each food service
establishment, mobile food service establishment or temporary food service
establishment operated or to be operated by any person.
      (2)   A license issued under this chapter is not transferable.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04  LICENSE AND FEE EXCEPTION.
   No license shall be required and no license fee shall be paid for food
service establishments, mobile food service establishments or temporary food
service establishments operated by religious, educational or charitable
organizations. However, those establishments shall comply with the other
provisions of §
114.02(A).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.05  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   All food service establishments, mobile food service establishments and
temporary food service establishments shall comply with the minimum
requirements specified by the State Board of Health as now provided in its
Regulation HFD 17 or as the same may be hereafter changed or amended. The
regulation and any changes and amendments thereto which may be hereafter
adopted or promulgated are by reference incorporated herein and made part
hereof, two copies of which are on file in the office of the Clerk of the
county for public inspection.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06  SALE, EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED OR
MISBRANDED FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell through a food service
establishment, mobile food service establishment or temporary food service
establishment any food which is unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded.
   (B)   (1)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Officer
as often as may be necessary to determine freedom from contamination,
adulteration or misbranding.
      (2)   The Health Officer may, on written notice to the owner or operator
impound or forbid the sale of any food which is unwholesome, adulterated or
misbranded, or which he or she has probable cause to believe is unfit for human
consumption; provided that, in the case of misbranding which can be corrected
by proper labeling, the food may be released to the operator for correct
labeling under the supervision of the Health Officer.
      (3)   The Health Officer may also cause to be removed or destroyed any
dairy product, meat, meat product, seafood, poultry, poultry product,
confectionery, bakery product, vegetable, fruit or other perishable articles
which, in his or her opinion, are unsound, or contain any filthy, decomposed or
putrid substance, or that may be poisonous or deleterious to health or
otherwise unsafe.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07  INSPECTION OF FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS; FREQUENCY OF INSPECTION.
   At least once each six months, the Health Officer shall inspect each food
service establishment and mobile food service establishment for which a permit
is required under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.08  PROCEDURE WHEN VIOLATIONS NOTED.
   If, during the inspection of any food service establishment or mobile food
service establishment, the Health Officer discovers the violation of any of the
requirements in §
114.03, he or she shall issue a written order listing the violations to the
proprietor or, in his or her absence, to the person in charge, and fixing a
time within which the proprietor of the food service establishment or mobile
food service establishment shall abate and remedy the violations. A copy of the
written order shall be filed within the records of the Health Department.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.09  AUTHORITY TO INSPECT AND TO COPY RECORDS.
   The person operating the food service establishment or mobile food service
establishment shall, upon the request of the Health Officer, permit the Health
Officer or his or her authorized representative access to all parts of the food
service establishment or mobile food service establishment and shall permit the
Health Officer or his or her authorized representative to collect evidence and/
or exhibits and to copy any or all records relative to the enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.10  FINAL INSPECTION-PROSECUTION OR HEARING FOR VIOLATORS.
   If, upon a second and final inspection, the Health Officer finds that the
food service establishment or mobile food service establishment, person or
employee is violating any of the provisions of this chapter which were in
violation on the previous inspection, and concerning which a written order was
issued, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of the violation to the
prosecutor having jurisdiction in the county in which the violation occurs, and
he or she shall prosecute all persons violating the provisions of this chapter;
or the Health Officer may promptly issue a written order to the permittee of
the food service establishment to appear at a certain time, no later than ten
days from the date of final inspection, and at a place in the county fixed in
the order to show cause why the permit issued under the provision of §
114.02(A) should not be revoked.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.11  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Health Officer, upon the hearing, if the permittee should fail to
show cause, shall revoke the permit and promptly give written notice of the
action to the permittee.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall maintain a permanent record of his or her
proceedings filed in the office of the Health Department.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.12  SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit issued under this chapter may be temporarily suspended by
the Health Officer without notice or hearing for a period not to exceed 30
days, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Insanitary or other conditions which in the Health Officer’s
opinion endangers the public’s health; and
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer or any of his or her
authorized representatives in the performance of their duties;
   (B)   Provided, however, that, upon written application from the permittee,
served upon the Health Officer within 15 days after the suspension, the Health
Officer shall conduct a hearing upon the matter after giving at least five days
written notice of the time, place and purpose thereof to the suspended
permittee; provided, further, that, any suspension order shall be issued by the
Health Officer in writing and served upon the permittee by leaving a copy at
his or her usual place of business or by delivery of registered or certified
mail to the address.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.13  REINSTATEMENT OF PERMIT.
   Any person whose permit has been suspended may, at any time, make
application to the Health Officer for the reinstatement of his or her permit.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.14  INSPECTION OF TEMPORARY FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS; FREQUENCY.
   At least once in each 24-hour period, the Health Officer shall inspect each
temporary food service establishment for which a permit is required under the
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.15  PROCEDURE TO FOLLOW WHEN ANY VIOLATION NOTED.
   If, during the inspection of any temporary food service establishment, the
Health Officer discovers the violation of any of the requirements in §
114.03, he or she shall order the immediate correction of the violation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.16  AUTHORITY TO INSPECT AND TO COPY RECORDS.
   The person operating the temporary food service establishment shall, upon
the request of the Health Officer, permit the Health Officer or his or her
authorized representative access to all parts of the temporary food service
establishment and shall permit collecting evidence and/or exhibits and copying
any or all records relative to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.17  REVOCATION OF PERMIT AND PENALTIES FOR CONTINUED OPERATION.
   Upon failure of any person maintaining or operating a temporary food service
establishment to comply with any order of the Health Officer, it shall be the
duty of the Health Officer summarily to revoke the permit of the person and
establishment and to forbid the further sale or serving of food therein. Any
person continuing to sell or serve food in the temporary food service
establishment, the permit of which has been revoked, shall be subject to the
penalties provided in §
114.99.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.18  APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   All food service establishment and mobile food service establishment which
are hereafter constructed or altered shall conform with the applicable
requirements set forth in §
114.03. Properly prepared plans and specifications shall be submitted to and
approved by the Health Officer as may be required before starting any
construction work.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violated any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. On conviction, the violator shall be punished for the
first offense by a fine of not more than $500, plus all costs and attorneys
fees for the collection of such fines; for the second offense by a fine of not
more than $1,000; and, for a third offense and each subsequent offense, by a
fine of not more that $1,000, plus all costs and attorneys fees for the
collection of such fines, to which may be added imprisonment for any
determinate period not exceeding 90 days. Each day of operation of food market
in violation of  §
114.02(A) or after the expiration of the time limit for abating insanitary
conditions and completing improvements to abate the conditions as ordered by
the Health Officer shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   ADDRESS NUMBERING SYSTEM
         
151.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
CHAPTER 150:  ADDRESS NUMBERING SYSTEM
Section
   
150.01   Policy statement
   
150.02   Establishment of uniform plan
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Authorizations
   
150.05   Determination of county road names
   
150.06   Naming and numbering of streets and roads within the incorporated
areas of the county
   
150.07   Maintenance of the permanent record of property addresses
   
150.08   Addressing standards
   
150.09   Guidelines for determining road names and addresses
   
150.10   Requirements for the posting of address numbers
   
150.11   Requirements for obtaining addresses
   
150.12   Signage
   
150.13   Incorporated cities and towns
   
150.14   Procedure for new/change of address
   
150.15   Processing fees for new/change of address
   
150.16   Moratorium on road name changes
   
150.17   Procedure for obtaining a road name change
   
150.18   Amendment
   
150.19   Effective date
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county, by and through its Board of
Commissioners, to provide, within constitutional limitation, for an orderly and
systematic numbering of houses and structures within the jurisdictional limits
of the county, and for the renaming of roads in order to provide a specific and
more accurate identification for efficient mail delivery, to provide easily
identifiable geographic reference points for prompt and efficient dispatch of
police, fire and emergency rescue equipment; to provide utility companies with
an address record for billing and service calls tied to a specific structure;
to facilitate voter registration; and to provide ease of location and
identification of structures for all other purposes so as to best serve the
interests generally of the citizens of the county.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.02  ESTABLISHMENT OF UNIFORM PLAN.
   A plan for the orderly and systematic numbering of houses and structures
located within the jurisdictional limits of the county is hereby enacted
(hereinafter “uniform numbering system”).
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS NUMBER. The number assigned to consecutive intervals along a street
or road pursuant to the number assignment formula contained herein.
   ADDRESSEE. A family, individual, residence, business or industry which
received mail at a delivery point.
   BASE LINES. The existing recognized roads or lines which divide the county
into quadrants or sections.
   CUSTOMER. An addressee.
   BLOCK INTERVAL. The hundred-number interval distance between grid lines or
the point where the next highest block designation is used.
   FRONTAGE INTERVAL. The distance in foot frontage along a street, highway or
county road which is used to assign consecutive property numbers, beginning
from the nearest grid or base line. The address system used by the county
assumes FRONTAGE INTERVAL of 10.56 feet.
   GRID LINES. Imaginary lines or actual county roads which are located a
specific distance from and perpendicular to or parallel to base lines. These
lines indicate the point where block numbers change from 1,000 to the next
higher thousand. GRID LINES are used to standardize the numbering of parallel
blocks at the same distance from the base lines.
   INTERVAL. The distance along a roadway of 5.28 feet, there being 1,000
intervals per mile (5,280 feet).
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract, development or area of land which either is
now being or will be used eventually for construction of a structure.
   NON-COMPLIANCE. Any failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter
including, but not limited to, by way of example: a number out of sequence, odd
or even number on wrong side of street,  rural box numbers in a 911 address
area, numbers improperly affixed, numbers illegible, numbers unclear, numbers
obstructed, numbers not visible, numbers not present, numbers of improper size,
numbers not in contrast with immediate background, weather-worn numbers, wrong
numbers and non-approved numbers.
   NUMBER ASSIGNMENT FORMULA. Beginning from the point of origin, a house
number shall be assigned for each interval, with each interval on the right
side of the roadway as one leaves the point of origin being assigned an even
number, and each interval on the left side as one leaves the point of origin
being assigned an odd number. Left and right shall be determined from the
perspective of a traveler moving away from the road point of origin in a
forward motion.
   POINT OF ORIGIN. The end point of a road, which is the starting point for a
numbering sequence.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, firm, entity, partnership, trust, corporation,
association or other organization that is occupying or leasing a building or
other property for a period exceeding 30 days.
   OWNER. Any and all persons, firms, entities, partnerships, trusts,
corporation, associations or other organizations that own the fee title to, or
have an undivided interest in, any building or property, which is subject to
the provisions of this chapter.
   STRUCTURE. A residential home (including a mobile or manufactured home)
apartment building, business or commercial building, industrial or
manufacturing building, office building or a publicly owned building which
fronts onto a public or private street or road.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.04  AUTHORIZATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable in all unincorporated
areas of the county. The incorporated cities and towns of Bloomfield, Linton,
Lyons, Jasonville, Newberry, Switz City and Worthington shall have the option
to adopt this chapter by each respective city council or town board.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.05  DETERMINATION OF COUNTY ROAD NAMES.
   It shall be the sole and exclusive responsibility of the Board of
Commissioners to determine and effectuate changes in county road numbers or
names or changes to the same. The Board of Commissioners shall, in addition,
have final approval in the naming of streets in platted subdivisions, mobile
home parks commercial or industrial business parks, and any other private
developments that lie outside incorporated areas and within the jurisdictional
limits of the county. Local cities and towns shall have final approval in the
naming of roads and subdivision streets located within their respective
corporate borders.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.06  NAMING AND NUMBERING OF STREETS AND ROADS WITHIN THE INCORPORATED
AREAS OF THE COUNTY.
   The legislative bodies of the respective cities and towns within the county
shall have the authority to designate the name of any new street or highway
that may be added within the jurisdictional limits of the governmental unit,
whether the street or highway be public or private, or to change the name of
the street or roadway. In the event a new street or highway is added, the
governmental unit shall notify the Clerk of the county of the new name in
writing and the name shall be added to the permanent record. The Clerk will
then assign numbers to the properties adjacent to the street or highway. The
Clerk of the county, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized to assign
numbers to any public or private road or street in the county which provides
access to three or more occupied buildings.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.07  MAINTENANCE OF THE PERMANENT RECORD OF PROPERTY ADDRESSES.
   (A)   Upon the passage by the Board of Commissioners of an ordinance to
reassign or rename roadways within the unincorporated jurisdictional limits of
the county, the Clerk or the Clerk’s designee shall compile a “Greene County
Road Name Index”, based upon the names adopted by ordinance. The road name
index shall be the official listing names for streets and roads in the
unincorporated areas of the county. If this chapter is adopted by the
legislative bodies of any city or town within the county, the road name index
shall include the roads and streets within the incorporated city or town and
shall be the official listing for the streets and roads within the city or
town. As used in the chapter, the terms STREET and ROAD shall have the same
meaning and shall also include, but not be limited to, avenues, boulevards,
highways, lanes, ways and similar street types.
   (B)   Following the adoption of a county road name index, the Clerk or the
Clerk’s designee shall be responsible for making changes of addresses,
assignment of new addresses and the maintenance of a permanent record of all
issued property addresses within the county. The Clerk or the Clerk’s designee
shall share the addresses with local postal authorities, governmental offices,
the voter registration, schools and E-911 personnel.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.08  ADDRESSING STANDARDS.
   The numbering of the road system and the issuance of property addresses
shall be based on the “Grid Coordinate System”. The grid coordinate system
utilizes two base lines which run at approximate right angles to each other to
divide the county into quadrants. Most of the county roads are numbered based
on their distance from the north-south and east-west base lines. Each mile
portion of roadway becomes a “block” for uniform numbering purposes.
Specifically, the following standards shall be employed.
   (A)   Grid lines. The general shall be 1,000 addresses per mile, except in
certain areas where the direction of the county roadways makes variations
necessary. Beginning from the point of origin a house number shall be assigned
for each interval, with each interval on the right side of the roadway as one
leaves the point of origin being assigned an even number, and each interval on
the left side as one leaves the point of origin being assigned an odd number.
Left and right shall be determined from the perspective of a traveler moving
away from the road point of origin in a forward motion.
   (B)   Street addresses. Street addresses are to be assigned based on a
measurement of the distance from the nearest grid line to the main access way
or drive to the structure. A structure shall, whenever possible, be addressed
to the street or road where the main access way intersects.
   (C)   County road numbers and names. Existing posted county road numbers or
names will be used to delineate an assumed distance in feet from a base line or
each other (grid lines) even though a true measurement to the road is not
exactly the distance stated on the road sign. All address measurements shall be
taken from the middle of the intersection.
   (D)   Property numbering intervals. Street and road addresses are assigned
in increasing order from each base and grid line. In general, 1,000 potential
property addresses shall be allowed between each grid line.
   (E)   Determining a property address. As a general rule, an official street
address shall contain no more than five digits with the first digit [or the
first two digits if the structure is located ten or more miles from the
baseline] indicating the milepost or distance from the base lines. The second
or third digit shall indicate the block number, which will change each 528
linear feet. The last two digits indicate the number of 10.56-foot intervals
from the structure to the nearest block or grid line. Deviations from the
general rule may occur to take into account variations in section grids.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.09  GUIDELINES FOR DETERMINING ROAD NAMES AND ADDRESSES.
   Where possible and appropriate, the following guidelines shall be utilized
in determining road names and addresses.
   (A)   Road names shall not duplicate road names already assigned,
irrespective of road name prefixes or suffixes, except for roads located within
different corporations. The four cardinal points of the compass may be used as
a prefix or suffix to designate portions of a continuous street.
   (B)   A street name shall not be differentiated using the same name by
changing the street suffix such as a street or avenue except that those
duplicate streets having different suffixes must be directly accessible from
the street having the same name with the different suffix. An example would be
Birch Court must be accessible from Birch Street.
   (C)   As a general rule, a roadway shall have only one name throughout its
entire length.
   (D)   State highways will retain their name and number. Where county roads
run in a true east-west direction or north-south direction, the grid number as
a name will be retained.
   (E)   Dead end roads will be designated as LN (Lanes) and numbered
accordingly to their grid placement.
   (F)   All roads that do not fall accordingly to the grid and run diagonally
or meander in direction will be designated as RD (Road) and given a name. The
address ranges between the control points such as section lines for a
meandering road will be spaced out accordingly with the standard odd/even
designators remaining constant throughout the entire road segment.
   (G)   All private drives that have three or more residents and are more than
one-eighth mile long or with three or more houses that cannot be seen from the
main road will be named according to the wishes of the residents effected and
be designated as LN (Lane).
   (H)   Names should be appropriate for the individual road and the area’s
nature and character, enhance community image, reflect historical, physical,
aesthetic or local color and, in every case, be in good taste.
   (I)   No two roads shall be given (substantively) the same name or similar
sounding name.
   (J)   Street names already in use in cities and towns should be avoided.
   (K)   Directional names, initials and punctuation in names should be
avoided.
   (L)   The names of living persons should be avoided. Historical references
are acceptable, but should not duplicate the name of any person living on the
road.
   (M)   Because of sign size, the maximum number of characters in a road name
cannot exceed 16 (including spaces).
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.10  REQUIREMENTS FOR THE POSTING OF ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Within 90 days following receipt of notification of the assigned
address of the property, it shall be the duty of all property owners or
occupants to display the assigned road number on all houses and other
structures located on lots or parcels of land abutting public or private
streets or roads within the unincorporated areas of the county in conformity
with the uniform numbering system. The owner or occupant shall post officially
assigned numbers in English, using Arabic (not Roman) numerals at a minimum of
four inches in height and made of reflective, durable weatherproof material, of
a color that stands out distinctly against its background. The official number
shall be placed on the house or business structure where it may easily be seen
when approaching the house or business. Three-inch lettering shall  also be
placed on both sides of a mail box and one-inch lettering on the front, if a
mail box is used [sized and positioned according to postal regulations]. If the
house or structure is not visible from a road or if the house or structure is
more than 100 feet from the road, the three-inch lettering shall be placed on a
post by the roadway. If mailboxes are placed closely side by side in a way that
numbers on the sides of the mailboxes cannot be seen, the numbers need to be
placed only on the front of each mailbox, and the individual houses or
structures should be identified using house numbers or appropriately placed
road posts. Houses or structures that were numbered prior to the effective date
of this chapter shall be renumbered if necessary to comply with the uniform
numbering system and so that numerical harmony through an area or areas is
achieved.
   (B)   No later than 30 days prior to the commencement of construction of a
house or structure or, if applicable, at the time the permit for construction
is issued, an address number will be assigned to the new house or structure by
the Clerk or the Clerk’s designee. If a permit system is utilized, the number
shall be included on the permit, and no permit authorizing the occupancy of a
home or structure shall be issued and no final inspection of a building
performed unless the house or structure displays the officially assigned number
in full compliance with the standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.11  REQUIREMENTS FOR OBTAINING ADDRESSES.
   (A)   In no case shall an individual or business be permitted to assign an
address to the person’s structure on that property. Addressing within the
unincorporated areas of the county is the sole responsibility of the County
Board of Commissioners, or the person or office as the Board may, from time to
time, designate. Addressing within the incorporated areas within the county is
the responsibility of the respective cities and towns within the county, unless
the provisions of this chapter are adopted by the legislative body of the city
or town. The Postal Services shall only recognize addresses issued by these
public entities. No public utility shall establish new service to a location
until a proper address has been obtained.
   (B)   No roadway currently shown on a subdivision plat located in the
unincorporated areas of the county and filed with the county or otherwise shall
be implemented by a subdivision owner until the name has been registered with
the County Clerk, and approved and added to the county road name index. The
County Clerk, or a duly authorized agent, shall have the authority to refuse
registration of any name already in use, confusingly similar to a name already
registered, deemed confusing for purposes of emergency response, or deemed
inappropriate by the Clerk or by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.12  SIGNAGE.
   (A)   The County Highway Department shall be responsible for the initial
erection of road signs and the maintenance thereof on public roadways. To
ensure uniformity of street signs throughout the county,  the signs shall be in
conformance to the type, size, style, color, material, placement and any other
specifications established by the State Department of Transportation.
   (B)   The owner or developer of any subdivision or other development where a
road or street sign is required shall cause to be erected street signs in
conformance to the exact standards of road sign specifications provided in this
chapter, and shall provide funds per a road sign fee schedule established by
the Board of Commissioners. The County Highway Department will initiate the
installation of the street sign(s). Any signs not in conformance to the
specifications of this chapter shall be removed and signs that are in
conformance shall be erected, all at the expense of the owner or party
responsible for the subdivision, property or other development.
   (C)   Except as approved by the Board of Commissioners, no other sign of any
type shall be attached, permanently or temporarily, to any road name signpost.
At no time shall a stop sign be mounted to a road name signpost. All stop signs
on state-maintained or private/subdivision roadways shall be individually
mounted to its own post.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.13  INCORPORATED CITIES AND TOWNS.
   (A)   The Board of the county does not have political jurisdiction over the
implementation of numbering systems within the incorporated cities and towns in
the county. Numbering in the communities shall be the responsibility of their
respective governing authorities. However, the Board of Commissioners may
require that city-type addresses be implemented in these communities for
purposes of defining structures for E-911 identification. For E-911 purposes
all structures in the county shall be required to have city-type property
addresses including those in incorporated communities.
   (B)   The rural route and box system now in place in some incorporated
communities shall be eliminated and the city-type addresses be assigned to all
structures within 60 days following the complete implementation of the uniform
numbering within the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.14  PROCEDURE FOR NEW/CHANGE OF ADDRESS.
   The Clerk shall provide a new/change of address form to be completed by any
person residing or intending to reside in the unincorporated areas of the
county who needs to obtain a new or change of address. The new/change of
address form must be sent to the Clerk for processing. In the event an
incorporated city or town adopts this chapter by resolution, the Clerk shall
provide new/change of address forms to the incorporated city or town, and the
city or town shall forward any new or change of address request to the Clerk or
direct the requesting party to send the completed form to the Clerk.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.15  PROCESSING FEES FOR NEW/CHANGE OF ADDRESS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners herein establishes a reasonable
administrative fee in the sum of $25 to be paid by persons who require a new or
change of address within the unincorporated areas of the county; provided,
however, the persons shall not be charged the administrative fee if the new
address is for an established property address within the county addressing
system.
   (B)   Any city or town adopting this chapter may, at its option, establish
and collect a reasonable administrative fee to persons who require a new or
change of address within the jurisdiction of the city or town.
   (C)   The city or town agrees that 50% of any fees collected by the city or
town shall be paid to the Clerk to defray the costs of administration and 50%
may be retained by the city or town to defray its administrative costs.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.16  MORATORIUM ON ROAD NAME CHANGES.
   Following the completion of the address conversation project as determined
by the Board of Commissioners, there shall be a moratorium on changes in road
and street names of the unincorporated parts of the county for a period of two
years.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.17  PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING A ROAD NAME CHANGE.
   (A)   Following the moratorium on road name changes, any owner living in the
unincorporated areas of the county wishing a change of road name may file a
petition with the Board of Commissioners requesting a change in name. The
petition must be signed by owners of 80% of the parcels on the road whose name
is proposed to be changed. The petition may not be filed until the Clerk, or
his or her duly authorized agent, confirms the availability of the proposed
name, but, not later than 90 days following the confirmation. Documentation
such as a tax bill or deed, showing the ownership of each signatory to the
petition must accompany the petition at the time of filing. A non-refundable
deposit in the amount of $250 shall accompany the petition. The Board of
Commissioners reserves the right to approve or reject the petition for a road
name change. Upon approval of the name change, the petitioner shall be
obligated to pay the county for the actual costs incurred by the name change.
Following approval, the Clerk shall process the road name change and advise the
United States Postal Service of the road or street name change.
   (B)   In the event this chapter is adopted by any of the incorporated cities
and towns in the county, the petition for a road or street name change shall be
filed with and approved by the executive having jurisdiction over the road or
street in question.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.18  AMENDMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners may, from time to time, amend, supplement or
change the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.19  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective 30 days following passage and publication in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Non-compliance with §
150.10 shall constitute a Class C infraction and shall be subject to a fine of
$50 per day, plus any costs, including reasonable attorney fees, incurred by
the county in the enforcement of this chapter. The Board of Commissioners may
institute a suit for injunction to restrain any person, firm or corporation
that takes down, alters, defaces, destroys or conceals any number assigned to
or placed upon building in compliance with this chapter, or places or
substitutes or permits to be placed or substituted upon any building an
erroneous or improper number not in compliance with this chapter, or who allows
to be retained upon any building an erroneous or improper number not in
compliance with this chapter. The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit
for mandatory injunction directing a person, firm or corporation to correct any
violation of the provisions of this chapter. The defendant or respondent shall
be liable for the costs of the action, and in addition, reasonable attorney
fees incurred in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-21-2009)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
151.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
151.12   Interpretation
   
151.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.25   Designation of Administrator
   
151.26   Permit procedures
   
151.27   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
Flood Hazard Prevention
   
151.40   General standards
   
151.41   Specific standards
   
151.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.43   Critical facility
   
151.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
151.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
151.46   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
151.47   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
151.60   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.61   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.62   Variance procedures
   
151.63   Conditions for variances
   
151.64   Variance notification
   
151.65   Historic structures
   
151.66   Special conditions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to adopt ordinances, including ordinances to control land use
within their jurisdictions. Therefore, it is hereby ordained by the Board of
Commissioners of Greene County, Indiana, and the Board of Commissioners of
Greene County, Indiana, does hereby adopt the following floodplain management
regulations.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of Greene County are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the county by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.05  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      (1)   ZONE A.Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO.  Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE/APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure with a floor area 400
square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Accessory structures should constitute a  minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be designed to
have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are
detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION. Any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of an existing
structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall
other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is connected by a
firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing walls, is new
construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD.The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY.  A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE.  Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
      (5)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (7)   Storage of materials; or
      (8)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (9)    DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure's
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial firm.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG).  The elevation of the regulatory flood plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  This chapter and other zoning
regulations, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power which
control development in flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state,
or local regulations in any combination thereof, which provide standards for
preventing and reducing flood loss and damage. Floodplain management
regulations are also referred to as floodplain regulations, floodplain
ordinance, flood damage prevention ordinance, and floodplain management
requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors mat could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP [As related to the variances of this chapter]. The exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Greene County Board of Commissioners requires that the variance is exceptional,
unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial
hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations,
physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors
likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these
problems can be resolved through other means without granting a variance, even
if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA's determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and,
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a "recreational vehicle."
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION.  Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
MITIGATION is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
cost of disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, this
is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced after the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY.  The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. (See REGULATORY
FLOOD.)
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory floodelevation at any location is
as defined in §
151.07. THE REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term “base flood,” “1% annual
chance flood,” and “100-year flood.”
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
county subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of Greene
County are generally identified as such on the Greene County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated January 7, 2015 as well as
any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM
as Zone A, AE, A1- A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. (See definition for A zone)
   ZONE B, C, AND X.  Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.06  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of Greene County, Indiana.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Greene County, Indiana, shall be as
delineated on the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study
of Greene County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated January 7, 2015 as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Greene County, Indiana, delineated as
an "A Zone" on the Greene County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated January 7, 2015, as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date, shall be according to the best data available as
provided by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream
drainage area from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a
party disagrees with the best available data, the party needs to replace
existing data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.08  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.11  DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.12  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements.
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body.
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.13  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of Greene County, the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.25  DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Board of Commissioners of Greene County hereby appoints the Greene
County Drainage Board or its designee to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.26  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application Stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development;
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
      (3)   A legal description of the property site;
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades;
      (6)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
      (7)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed; and
      (8)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See §
151.27(B)(6) for additional information.)
   (B)   Construction Stage.
      (1)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant's risk.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer and
certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the floodproofing
certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected
by such review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit
the floodproofing certification or failure to make correction required shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished Construction. Upon completion of construction, an elevation
certification which depicts the "as-built" lowest floor elevation is required
to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a
floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be submitted
by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.27  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
151.44 and
151.46(A) of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and "as-built" elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
151.26;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
151.26;
      (13)   Stop Work Orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease;
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed;
      (14)   Revocation of Permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based; and
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
§ 151.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG;
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
151.40, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community's first
floodplain chapter.
   (B)   Residential Structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
151.41(D).
   (C)   Non-Residential Structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
§
151.41(D). Structures located in all "A Zones" may be floodproofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
151.27(B)(12); and
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated Structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG. Elevated
structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to preclude finished
living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs must
meet the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above the
exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
      (4)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
      (5)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms; and
      (6)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an elevation
at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures Constructed on Fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file;
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE;
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical;
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties; and
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for Manufactured Homes and Recreational Vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement;
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in §
151.41(D)
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings;
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement;
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in §
151.41(D);
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings;
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for "manufactured homes" as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory Structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in §
151.41(D).
   (H)   Above Ground Gas or Liquid Storage Tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.42  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.43  CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.44  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
151.07, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction  in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development Permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
151.40et seq. of this chapter have been met. The Floodplain Development Permit
cannot be less restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway
issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community's
more restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood
elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway
condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.45  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development Permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
151.40et seq. of this chapter have been met. The key provision is that the top
of the lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at
or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.46  STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment;
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended Flood Protection Grade has
been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources; and
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
151.40et seq. of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site;
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
151.40et seq. of this chapter have been met; and
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
regulatory flood more than fourteen hundredths of one foot and shall not
increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.47  STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
151.40et seq.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 151.60  DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Commissioners, or such persons who shall be appointed by the
Board of Commissioners to serve as members of a Variance and Appeals Board,
shall serve as the Variance and Appeals Board and hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.61  DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Variance and Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged an error in any requirement, decision, or determination in made by the
Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to
the Greene County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.62  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and;
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.63  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
151.44 or §
151.46(A) of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
151.44 or §
151.46(A) of this chapter will require a permit from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
151.40, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (See also §
151.64).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (See also §
151.64).
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.64  VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.65  HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an "historic
structure" and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.66  SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Variance and Appeals Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a Floodplain Development Permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a Floodplain Development Permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and shall be punishable by a fine not
less than $125.00 and not greater than $2,500.00 per violation, and shall, in
addition, be liable for all reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred by the
county in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 12-16-2014)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS; INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
         
II.   STREET AND ROAD CLOSINGS, VACATIONS AND ESTABLISHMENTS
         
III.   STREET AND ROAD NAMES
         
IV.   BONDS
         
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I:  FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS; INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         Granting a cable television franchise to First Indiana
                     Cablevision Corporation
-        - -         Participating in the cooperative operation of the Southern
                     Indiana Development Commission
2002-4A  11-4-2002   Granting a non-exclusive cable franchise agreement with
                     Alliance Communications Partners, L.P.
 
TABLE II:  STREET AND ROAD CLOSINGS, VACATIONS AND ESTABLISHMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date       Description
         Passed
-        2-6-1984   Vacating a portion of C.R. 50 S
90-3     12-5-1990  Establishing a public road
1996-1   1-3-1996   Vacating a portion of a certain highway
1996-3   10-16-1996 Vacating portions of lots in L.T. Dickason’s First Addition
1997-1B  11-19-1997 Vacating a portion of lots in Coal Bluff Mining Company’s
                    Addition
2000-1   2-1-2000   Vacating a portion of certain public roadways
2003-14  10-6-2003  Permanently closing a portion of C.R. 300 N
2004-01  2-17-2004  Permanently closing a portion of C.R. 1200 W
2004-03  9-21-2004  Vacating a portion of an alley in George’s Second Addition
2005-01  1-18-2005  Vacating an alley in George’s Second Addition
2005-02  2-1-2005   Vacating a portion of C.R. 725 E
2006-01  1-3-2006   Vacating portions of alleys, 4th Street NW and N Street NW
2009-01  2-17-2009  Vacating a portion of C.R. 525 E
2010-01  - -2010    Vacating a portion of C.R. 800 N (East Queen Four Road)
2010-04  8-16-2010  Vacating a portion of C.R. 150 S
2010-11  12-6-2010  Temporarily closing a portion of C.R. 700 N
2011-1   4-4-2011   Vacating a portion of Main Street
2011-6   7-18-2011  Vacating a portion of C.R. 1190 E
2012-06  11-5-2012  Vacating a portion of C.R. 1375 W
                    Vacating North Street, Canal Street and unnamed 15-foot
2012-07  11-5-2012  wide street in the town of Scotland beginning at the
                    southwest corner of Lot Number 33 in Barkers Addition and
                    running south a distance of 310 feet
2015-01  5-9-2015   Vacating 12-foot alley in new addition to Town of Solsberry
2016-01  5-17-2016  Vacating North and South Street in Graham's Addition in
                    Town of Owensburg
2016-03  6-21-2016  Vacating various streets and alleys in Klink's Addition to
                    North Linton
2016-04  7-19-2016  Vacating a portion of County Road 625 East
2020-02  9-15-2020  Vacating portions of certain streets and alleyways in John
                    George's Addition and Dowden's Addition.
                   
 
TABLE III:  STREET AND ROAD NAMES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2007-05  9-11-2007   Reassigning and/or confirming roadway names
2007-05  9-18-2007   Amendment; reassigning and/or confirming roadway names
2009-7   9-21-2009   Amendment; reassigning and/or confirming roadway names
 
TABLE IV:  BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2010-05  9-20-2010   Recovery zone economic development bonds
2010-09  10-18-2010  Recovery zone economic development bonds; cap
2010-10  11-1-2010   Recovery zone economic development bonds; facility bond
                     local cap
                     The refunding of Greene Country, Indiana economic
2014-04  10-27-2014  development revenue bonds, series 2012C (Indiana Rail Road
                     Project)
2014-05  10-27-2014  The refunding of Greene County, Indiana economic
                     development bonds, series 2013 (UDWI Project)
 
TABLE V:  REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
-            - -         Selling real estate purchased in county tax sale
-            - -         Authorizing the purchase of real estate
-            10-9-1967   Authorizing the purchase of certain real estate
-            7-24-1970   Authorizing the sale of real estate
Res. 2016-09 3-15-2016   Authorizing transfer of lots in Ingleside Addition to
                         Town of Jasonville
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                          Code Section
1-1-1-5                               10.04
1-1-1-7                               10.12
1-1-1-8                               10.06
1-1-4-5                               10.05
1-1-5-1                               10.11
1-1-6-1                               10.08
4-3-33-13-5                           32.05
4-21.5-1-9                            110.02
4-33-13                               32.05
4-33-13-1 et seq.                     32.05
5-3-1 et seq.                         32.25,
                                      111.03
                                      33.01,
                                      33.05,
5-3-1                                 71.11,
                                      92.04,
                                      93.07,
                                      150.19
5-4-1-18(a)                           30.07
5-4-1-18(a)(7)                        30.07
5-4-1-18(d)                           30.07
5-4-1-18(d)(1), (2)                   30.07
5-4-1-18(e)(1), (2)                   30.07
5-11-1-37                             33.10
                                      30.24,
5-14-1.5                              31.03,
                                      94.06
5-14-1.5-5(d)                         31.08
5-14-3                                31.03
5-14-3-2                              32.26
5-14-3-3                              32.26,
                                      33.12
5-14-3-3(e)                           32.26
5-14-3-3.6                            32.26
5-14-3-3.6(e)                         32.26
5-14-3-4                              32.26
5-14-3-6                              32.26
5-14-3-8(j)                           32.26
5-14-3-8(k)                           32.26
5-14-3-8.5                            32.26
5-14-3-8.5(b)                         32.26
5-15-6 et seq.                        31.03
5-22                                  33.04
5-22-8                                33.07
5-22-8-1(b)                           33.07
5-22-15-21                            33.04
6-2.5                                 32.40
6-3-2-2.8                             110.04
6-3.5-4-2                             70.01
6-3.5-4-6                             70.01
6-3.5-4-13(c)                         70.01
6-3.5-5-2                             70.01
6-3.5-5-2(c)                          70.01
6-3.5-5-3                             70.01
6-3.5-5-4                             70.01
6-3.5-5-8                             70.01
6-3.5-5-15(c)                         70.01
6-8.1-3-12(h)                         30.25
6-8.1-3-12(h)(3)                      30.25
6-9-18                                30.25,
                                      32.40
6-9-29-3                              30.25
8-14-2-4(c)(l) through 8-14-2-4(c)(3) 70.01
Ch. 9                                 71.08
9-20-1-3                              72.05
10-4-1-7                              31.08
10-8-2-1                              31.01
10-14-1-10                            31.01
                                      31.04,
10-14-3                               31.05,
                                      31.09
10-14-3-1                             31.01
10-14-3-1 et seq.                     31.04—
                                      31.06
10-14-3-6                             31.05
10-14-3-11                            31.08
10-14-3-12                            31.08
10-14-3-17                            31.01—
                                      31.03
10-14-3-17(d)                         31.03
10-14-3-22                            31.08
10-14-3-22(b)(2)                      33.09
10-14-3-24                            31.08
10-14-3-26                            31.04
10-14-3-27(b)                         31.04
10-14-3-29                            31.08,
                                      33.09
10-14-3-29(a)                         31.01
10-14-3-29.5                          33.09
10-14-3-31                            31.08,
                                      31.10
10-17-10-1                            33.03
11-8-8-21                             32.07
11-12-5-5                             33.02
Ch. 14                                71.08
14-16-1-1 et seq.                     71.06
14-28-1                               151.44
14-28-1-26                            151.44
16-20-1-10                            110.07
16-20-1-25(c)                         110.06
16-20-1-26                            110.05
16-20-1-27                            110.04
16-20-8-5                             110.05
16-20-8-6                             110.05
16-42-1                               110.01
16-42-1 et seq.                       114.01
16-42-1-6                             110.03
16-42-1-13                            110.05
16-42-2                               110.01
16-42-5                               110.01
16-42-5-23                            110.05
17-3-14                               30.21
22-9-1-4 et seq.                      90.02
22-9.5 et seq.                        90.01
22-9.5-2-2                            90.02
22-9.5-2-3                            90.02
22-9.5-2-4                            90.02
22-9.5-2-8                            90.02
22-9.5-2-9                            90.01.
                                      90.02
22-9.5-2-11                           90.02
22-9.5-2-13                           90.02
22-9.5-3                              90.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.                      90.10
22-9.5-4-8                            90.11
22-9.5-5                              90.02
22-9.5-5-1                            90.03
22-9.5-6                              90.02,
                                      90.11
27-1-15.6-6(d)                        33.12
27-7-3-2                              33.12
27-7-3-6                              33.12
32-24                                 31.10
32-29-7-3                             32.10
33-37-10-1                            33.06
34-6-2-73                             32.03
34-24-1                               32.03,
                                      32.08
34-24-1-1 et seq.                     32.08
34-24-1-4                             32.08
34-24-2                               32.03,
                                      32.08
34-28-5-1 et seq.                     10.99
34-28-5-1                             110.06
34-28-5-4                             10.99,
                                      111.99
34-28-5-5                             111.99
35-31.5-2-85                          33.05
35-31.5-2-185                         33.05
35-31.5-2-292                         33.05
35-47-1-5                             33.05
35-47-8-1                             33.05
35-47-8-2                             33.05
35-47-8-3                             33.05
35-47-11.1(2),(3),(4)                 33.05
36-1-3-8                              10.99
36-1-4-11                             151.01
36-1-6-2                              10.99
36-1-6-4                              10.99
36-1-8-1 et seq.                      32.09
36-1-8-5                              32.09
36-1-8-5.1                            32.09
36-1-8-5.1(b)(2)                      32.09
36-2-2                                31.01
36-2-2-8                              31.08
36-2-4-8                              32.03,
                                      111.03
                                      33.01,
36-2-4-8(b)                           33.05,
                                      93.07
36-2-5-2                              32.08
36-2-5-3(a)                           31.04
36-2-7.5                              32.06
36-2-7.5-6(c)                         32.06
36-2-7.5-11(b)                        32.06
36-2-7.5-11(d)                        32.06
36-2-9-18                             32.25
36-5-2-2                              10.15
36-7-1-14                             10.05
36-7-4                                30.15
36-7-4-900                            10.05
36-7-9-2                              94.02
36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22           94.10
36-7-11.9 et seq.                     30.16
36-7-12 et seq.                       30.16
36-7-14-3                             30.17
36-7-14.5-7                           30.23
36-10-3-10                            30.20
36-10-3-11                            30.20
36-10-3-17                            30.20
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
–             - -         TSO Table I
–             - -         TSO Table I
–             - -         TSO Table V
–             - -         TSO Table V
–             - -         30.20
–             - -         30.21
–             - -         30.22
–             - -         32.11
–             - -         33.06
                            112.01—
–             - -         112.12,
                            112.99
                            113.01—
–             - -         113.16,
                            113.99
–             - -         114.01—
                            114.18, 114.99
–             10-9-1967   TSO Table V
–             7-24-1970   TSO Table V
–             2-6-1984    TSO Table II
90-3            12-5-1990   TSO Table II
                            50.01—
1992-1          5-6-1992    50.10,
                            50.99
                            92.01—
1994-2          6-15-1994   92.14,
                            92.99
1995-2          7-5-1995    Ch. 73, Sch. II
1995-3          7-5-1995    Ch. 73, Sch. I
1995-5          10-18-1995  71.01—
                            71.11, 71.99
1995-7          11-1-1995   32.27
1995-8          11-15-1995  32.28
1996-1          1-3-1996    TSO Table II
                            72.01—
1996-01         2-14-1996   72.07,
                            72.99
1996-3          10-16-1996  TSO Table II
                            91.01—
                            91.05,
                            91.07—
1997-1          2-5-1997    91.10,
                            91.12—
                            91.15,
                            91.99
1997-1B         11-19-1997  TSO Table II
1998-           9-1-1998    Ch. 73, Sch. II
1999-1          3-16-1999   32.04
                            93.01—
1999-           6-15-1999   93.04,
                            93.07,
                            93.99
2000-1          2-1-2000    TSO Table II
2000-2          6-20-2000   32.03
2000-           9-19-2000   33.03
2001-1          2-5-2001    30.17
2001-2          9-18-2001   Ch. 73, Sch. II
2002-1          6-18-2002   33.02
2002-2          6-18-2002   32.29
2002-03         11-4-2002   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2002-4A         11-4-2002   TSO Table I
2003-13         10-6-2003   32.25
2003-14         10-6-2003   TSO Table II
2004-01         2-17-2004   TSO Table II
2004-2          6-1-2004    Ch. 73, Sch. II
2004-03         9-21-2004   TSO Table II
2004-04         12-21-2004  30.19
2005-01         1-18-2005   TSO Table II
2005-02         2-1-2005    TSO Table II
2005-3          2-1-2005    32.26
2005-04         5-17-2005   Ch. 73, Sch. II
2005-1          8-2-2005    110.01—
                            110.09
2005-05         10-18-2005  32.06
2006-01         1-3-2006    TSO Table II
2006-02         2-6-2006    32.05
2006-03         8-15-2006   Ch. 73, Sch. II
2006-06         10-17-2006  Ch. 73, Sch. II
2007-01         3-20-2007   32.09
2007-03         6-5-2007    32.08
2007-04         9-11-2007   32.07
2007-05         9-11-2007   TSO Table III
2007-05         9-18-2007   TSO Table III
2007-06         10-16-2007  33.01
2008-01         1-15-2008   Ch. 73, Sch. II
2008-04         9-16-2008   30.16
Council 2009-1  3-30-2009   30.16
2009-01         2-17-2009   TSO Table II
2009-2          3-16-2009   30.15
2009-02         5-26-2009   70.01
2009-3          4-20-2009   Ch. 73, Sch. I
2009-04         6-15-2009   30.18
2009-06         9-21-2009   150.01—
                            150.19, 150.99
2009-7          9-21-2009   TSO Table III
2009-08         10-19-2009  Ch. 73, Sch. II
2010-01         - -2010     TSO Table II
2010-2          4-19-2010   32.10
2010-03         6-21-2010   32.10
2010-04         8-16-2010   TSO Table II
2010-05         9-20-2010   TSO Table IV
                            111.01—
2010-06         10-4-2010   111.03,
                            111.99
2010-07         10-18-2010  32.01
2010-08         10-18-2010  32.30
2010-09         10-18-2010  TSO Table IV
2010-10         11-1-2010   TSO Table IV
2010-11         12-6-2010   TSO Table II
2010-12         12-20-2010  32.02
2010-13         12-20-2010  30.01
2010-14         12-20-2010  30.02
2010-15         12-20-2010  30.03
2011-1          4-4-2011    TSO Table I
2011-03         7-5-2011    33.02
2011-05         7-18-2011   33.08
2011-6          7-18-2011   TSO Table I
2011-07         9-19-2011   Ch. 73, Sch. II
2011-08         10-17-2011  Ch. 73, Sch. II
2011-09         11-7-2011   32.12
2011-10         11-21-2011  33.07
2011-11         12-29-2011  Ch. 73, Sch. II
2012-2          4-16-2012   30.01—
                            30.03
2012-3          6-4-2012    30.01—
                            30.03
2012-04         6-18-2012   Ch. 73, Sch. II
                            93.01–
2012-05         6-18-2012   93.07,
                            93.99
2012-06         11-5-2012   TSO Table II
2012-07         11-5-2012   TSO Table II
Council 2012-03 12-10-2012  30.01—
                            30.06
2012-09         12-10-2012  30.01—
                            30.06
2012-08         12-17-2012  33.09
2013-01         2-19-2013   31.01—
                            31.10, 31.99
2013-02         3-5-2013    Ch. 73, Sch. II
2013-04         4-16-2013   30.23
                            94.01—
2013-5          5-7-2013    94.10,
                            94.99
Council 2013-05 9-30-2013   30.01
2013-06         7-2-2013    33.05,
                            33.99
2013-07         8-6-2013    30.01
2013-08         8-20-2013   Ch. 73, Sch. II
2013-10         10-15-2013  32.13
2014-01         5-7-2014    90.01-
                            90.11
                            151.01—
                            151.13,
                            151.25—
                            151.27,
2014-02         12-16-2014  151.40—
                            151.47,
                            151.60—
                            151.66,
                            151.99
2014-03         10-27-2014  70.01
2014-04         10-27-2014  TSO Table IV
2014-05         10-27-2014  TSO Table IV
2015-01         5-19-2015   TSO Table II
2015-02         7-7-2015    32.14
Council 2015-02 9-28-2015   30.01
2015-03         7-7-2015    30.24
2015-04         10-6-2015   30.01
Council 2015-05 11-30-2015  30.07
Res. 2016-7     2-16-2016   33.11
Res. 2016-09    3-15-2016   TSO Table V
2016-01         5-17-2016   TSO Table II
Res. 2016-13    5-17-2016   33.11
2016-02         6-21-2016   33.10
2016-03         6-21-2016   TSO Table II
Council 2016-03 12-12-2016  30.01
2016-04         7-19-2016   TSO Table II
2016-05         8-2-2016    Ch. 73, Sch. II
2016-06         12-6-2016   33.04
2016-07         12-20-2016  30.01
Res. 2016-18    12-20-2016  30.08
2016-08         12-20-2016  33.12
                            91.01—
                            91.05,
                            91.07—
2017-01         2-7-2017    91.10,
                            91.12—
                            91.15,
                            91.99
Council 2017-01 6-5-2017    30.25,
                            32.40
2017-03         7-18-2017   33.12
                            93.02,
2018-07         9-18-2018   93.04,
                            93.05,
                            93.99
2020-01         3-17-2020   32.30
2020-02         9-15-2020   TSO Table II
                           
 
