GREENTOWN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-4, passed 7-16-2024 and
State legislation current through 2024 ALS Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town of Greentown
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   This code is a codification of previously-existing laws,
amendments thereto and newly-enacted laws.
      (2)   Any previously-existing law or amendment thereto reenacted by this
code shall continue in operation and effect as if it had not been repealed by
this code. All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to
the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously-existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters and sections of this code, whether as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification in any official
publication to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders. Words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular. The use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk- Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Howard County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, the sections or divisions next PRECEDING or next FOLLOWING that in which
the word or words occur unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Greentown, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Includes printing, lithographing or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, then the invalidity
does not affect other sections which can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, then the invalidity
does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the municipality who is
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in a provision
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government and that name designation is
incorrectly stated, on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity, then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly-named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intent of the
provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, then it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code which repealed a former section or law adopted
prior to the enactment of this code is repealed, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, to the
prosecution of offenses or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by the repeal and
reenactment, but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for causes arising or
acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may be commenced and
prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, then the chapter or section shall be specifically
repealed and a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment
substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinances and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
   (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, then this
indicates that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the
statute. Example:
   (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, then this indicates that the reader should
refer to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   (1)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued,
penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this
code. The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued, and punishments,
penalties and forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
      (2)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into, franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers
shall remain valid in all respects as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
31.   TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   TOWN ELECTIONS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Smoking
   
30.01   Definitions
   
30.02   Smoking in town-owned buildings
Internal Control Policy
   
30.15   Mission
   
30.16   Objectives
   
30.17   Internal control standards
   
30.18   Principles of internal control standards
   
30.19   Internal control system procedures
 
   
30.99   Penalty
SMOKING
§ 30.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning. Throughout, “shall” is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   BUILDING. Any building owned by the town and utilized by its citizens,
employees, team members or contracted workers. The term BUILDING refers to all
interior spaces of the building.
   PERSON. Any human being.
   SMOKING. The carrying or holding of a lit cigarette, cigar, pipe or any
other lit smoking equipment, or the inhalation or exhalation of smoke from any
lit smoking equipment as defined in I.C. 7.1-5-12-3.
   TEAM MEMBERS. Any person employed or contracted to do work for the town.
   TOWN. The Town of Greentown, Indiana.
   TOWN HALL. The town’s Town Hall, located at 112 North Meridian Street,
Greentown, Indiana.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 12-7-2004)
§ 30.02 SMOKING IN TOWN-OWNED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Designation of smoking and nonsmoking areas, Town Hall.
      (1)   Town Hall is a smoke-free building except for in the designated
area for smoking as described in this subchapter.
      (2)   Conspicuous signs shall be posted in Town Hall in numbers
sufficient to advise persons where smoking is prohibited by this subchapter and
state law.
      (3)   The Town Council shall undertake all other duties set forth in I.C.
7.1-5-12-7.
      (4)   Smoking indoors is prohibited, including throughout the entirety of
the Police Department.
   (B)   Designation of smoking and nonsmoking areas, town buildings.
      (1)   All other buildings owned by the town shall be smoke-free at all
times.
      (2)   Conspicuous signs shall be posted at each site in numbers
sufficient to advise persons that smoking is prohibited in said buildings by
this subchapter and state law.
      (3)   The Town Council shall undertake all other duties set forth in I.C.
7.1-5-12-7.
   (C)   Designated smoking area policies.
      (1)   In order to promote good health and allow visitors and team members
to have a smoke-free environment, smoking will be limited to the areas
designated by this subchapter.
         (a)   Team members employed by the town are encouraged to refrain from
smoking while performing town business.
         (b)   Smoking is prohibited within the Town Hall.
         (c)   All other buildings owned by the town shall be smoke-free, but a
smoking area may be established in accordance with this subchapter and
utilizing the following guidelines:
            1.   No smoking in confined offices or shared offices;
            2.   No smoking in areas which contain flammable or hazardous
materials, including vehicles with gasoline; and
            3.   All smoking areas must allow for usage by nonsmokers and shall
not cause smoke to infiltrate other areas.
         (d)   No smoking is allowed in vehicles when a nonsmoker is present,
whether citizen or employee.
      (2)   Any infraction of this policy may result in disciplinary action.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 12-7-2004) Penalty, see §
30.99
INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY
§ 30.15 MISSION.
   The town finds that its mission as related to an internal control system is
as follows:
   (A)   The provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
   (B)   The provision of services as determined through the political process
including, but not limited to, police and fire services, economic development,
parks, public welfare and utilities such as water, sewer and the like;
   (C)   The promotion of governmental efficiency, accountability, reliability
and transparency; and
   (D)   The promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to
mismanagement, fraud, waste, abuse or errors.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 30.16 OBJECTIVES.
   The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping objectives as
related to an internal control system are as follows:
   (A)   Operations objectives, which involve the way in which governmental
services are performed and the performance of those who provide governmental
services, including, by way of example, budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash
management and planning, among others;
   (B)   Reporting objectives, which involve the filing of financial and
nonfinancial information to those inside the government and those outside of
the government, including, by way of example, filing the annual report, audit
and examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms and
other filings with any governmental agency or official, keeping required
information such as an OSHA log and responding to a public records request,
among others; and
   (C)   Compliance objectives, which involve the adherence to law and
regulations, including, by way of example, following guidance documents such as
the state’s Board of Accounts’ manuals, bulletins and directives and the
Department of Local Government Finance’s forms and directions, and including
other outside-of-government training and documents such as those of IACT, among
others.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 30.17 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system, which
includes five standards to promote governmental accountability and transparency
as described in the “Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political
Subdivisions” guidance document from the state’s Board of Accounts, dated
September 2015 and as thereafter modified.
   (B)   The internal control standards are as follows:
      (1)   Control environment;
      (2)   Risk assessment;
      (3)   Control activities;
      (4)   Information and communication; and
      (5)   Monitoring.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 30.18 PRINCIPLES OF INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The town adopts and directs the following principles in explanation of the
pertinent standards listed in §
30.17 of this chapter, which are to be followed at all levels of the town’s
government.
   (A)   Control environment.
      (1)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
      (2)   The oversight body oversees the town’s internal control system.
      (3)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (4)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and retain
competent individuals.
      (5)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals accountable
for their internal control responsibilities.
   (B)   Risk assessment.
      (1)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the identification
of risks and defines risk tolerances.
      (2)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risks related to
achieving the defined objectives.
      (3)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks.
      (4)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant changes
which could impact the internal control system.
   (C)   Control activities.
      (1)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
      (2)   Management designs the town’s information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
      (3)   Management implements control activities through policies.
   (D)   Information and communication.
      (1)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town’s
objectives.
      (2)   Management internally communicates necessary, quality information
to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (3)   Management externally communicates necessary, quality information
to achieve the town’s objectives.
   (E)   Monitoring.
      (1)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
      (2)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies on a
timely basis.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 30.19 INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The town adopts the internal control standards in §§
30.17 and
30.18 of this chapter so as to establish an effective internal control system
for the town through its design, implementation and operation. The town directs
that the standards in §§
30.17 and
30.18 of this chapter be used to design, implement, operate and modify current
operations, reporting and compliance objectives which will safeguard the assets
of the town, promote the reliability, accountability and transparency of
financial and nonfinancial information and ensure compliance with laws and
regulations for each office, department and personnel, as defined herein, for
an effective and reasonable internal control system of the town.
   (B)   The town authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to review the current internal
control system of the town and adopt a policy for the future internal control
system, to be effective after June 30, 2016, and to perform an annual review,
or more, if determined necessary for compliance with this subchapter.
   (C)   The personnel of the town, whether officials or employees, whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing or
otherwise having access to funds which belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision or another governmental entity shall comply
with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and with any other
policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the town now
and as modified in the future.
   (D)   Unless on leave status, the personnel of the town whose official
duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing or otherwise
having access to funds which belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision or another governmental entity shall be
trained at least once during a calendar year, and annually thereafter, on the
minimum internal control standards and procedures and on any other standards
and procedures determined necessary by the town. Such personnel shall cooperate
with the town’s fiscal officer or designee so that the fiscal officer can
timely certify to the state’s Board of Accounts that the training was received
annually by the personnel as provided by law.
   (E)   The town authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to determine the positions and
persons who are the personnel referred to in divisions (C) and (D) above and to
notify such personnel.
   (F)   The Town Council designates the Clerk- Treasurer to create the
internal control policies for the town. The Town Council reserves the right to
review, edit, alter or change the internal control policies designed by the
Clerk-Treasurer as appropriate.
   (G)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
   (H)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the internal
control system shall commit a violation of this subchapter, which may result in
discipline, including termination, of the employee.
   (I)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and mandated certifications of the internal
control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 5-17-2016) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person who smokes in Town Hall or in a town building in violation of
§
30.02 of this chapter commits a Class B infraction. However, the violation is a
Class A infraction if the person has at least three previous, unrelated
judgments for violating §
30.02 of this chapter which were accrued within the 12 months immediately
preceding the violation, as provided by I.C. 7.1-5-12-4.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 12-7-2004)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Policies
   
31.01   Participation in county’s Department of Civil Defense
   
31.02   Nepotism and contracting with a unit
Drug-Free Workplace Policy
   
31.15   Overview
   
31.16   Policy
   
31.17   Prohibited drugs
   
31.18   Alcohol
   
31.19   Reporting violations
   
31.20   Employee rehabilitation
   
31.21   Alcohol and drug testing
Roles and Authority
   
31.35   Town Supervisor
   
31.36   Wastewater Operator/Assistant Town Supervisor
   
31.37   Seasonal Part-Time Wastewater Operator/Lab Assistant
   
31.38   Town Marshal
   
31.39   Part-Time Deputy Marshal
   
31.40   Reserve officers
Discrimination Policies; Procedure
   
31.55   Discrimination grievance procedure
   
31.56   Americans with Disabilities Act
GENERAL POLICIES
§ 31.01 PARTICIPATION IN COUNTY’S DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL DEFENSE.
   (A)   The interlocal agreement made a part hereof by reference, the same
being entitled “An Interlocal Agreement Establishing an Interjurisdictional
Agency to Be Known as the Howard County Department of Civil Defense”, is hereby
entered into and approved as submitted. The President of the Town Council, as
the executive officer, is authorized to execute said agreement on behalf of the
town.
   (B)   Such agreement may be terminated by the enactment of an ordinance
repealing this section. Such termination shall be effective at the end of the
fiscal year in which said repeal ordinance is enacted.
(Ord. 1988-7, passed 11-3-1988)
§ 31.02 NEPOTISM AND CONTRACTING WITH A UNIT.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in employment with the town and with regard to
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
governmental services to its residents and to comply with the laws effective as
of July 1, 2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   As of July 1, 2012, the town has policies for nepotism and contracting
with a unit which comply with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2,
hereinafter the “Nepotism Policy”, and I.C. 36-1-21, hereinafter the
“Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy”, and implementation has begun.
   (C)   The town’s Nepotism Policy was established effective July 1, 2012, by
adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, including all
future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to time,
and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (D)   The town’s Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy was
established effective July 1, 2012, by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, including all future supplements and amendments
which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully
set out herein.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements which are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed requirements are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensations, grievances,
advancements or performance evaluations without the prior authority of a
majority of the body, and that therefore, without such authority by the
majority, he or she will not be in the direct line of supervision as required
by I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-5-2-9.4.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of a governing body with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensations, grievances, advancements or performance evaluations
without the prior authority of a majority of the body when a statute provides
that a majority is needed to act, and that therefore, without such authority by
the majority, said single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this subchapter and in demonstrating compliance with these same
policies.
   (I)   A failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the Nepotism Policy is a violation, and such
violation may result in discipline, including termination, of the employee, a
transfer from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An
elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate
with the implementation, compliance and mandated certifications of the Nepotism
Policy may be subject to action as allowed by law.
   (J)   A failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the Contracting with a Unit by a Relative
Policy is a violation, and such violation may result in discipline, including
termination, of the employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed
official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and mandated certifications of the Contracting with
a Unit by a Relative Policy may be subject to action as allowed by law.
   (K)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 as supplemented or
amended are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection
as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY
§ 31.15 OVERVIEW.
   (A)   The town makes a commitment to provide employees with a safe working
environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and operating practices comply
with health and safety standards and to maintain public confidence in the town
and its employees.
   (B)   Since the town values each employee, it offers employees assistance in
dealing with alcohol and drug abuse problems.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 31.16 POLICY.
   (A)   The town requires all employees to report for work in a condition
which allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner. An
employee will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with
prohibited drugs in his or her system, thereby affecting job performance.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of this subchapter will be considered
just cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a
first offense. In addition, a refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may
be considered an act of insubordination and may also lead to disciplinary
action up to and including discharge.
   (C)   This subchapter and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the town.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 4-7-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.17 PROHIBITED DRUGS.
   PROHIBITED DRUGS is defined as illegal substances, including controlled
substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act, 21 U.S.C. § 801 et seq.,
and the Code of Federal Regulations, 21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through 1308.15, and
prescription- controlled substances which have not been prescribed by a
licensed physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee.
The abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs is also treated as a
substance abuse problem under this subchapter. This subchapter prohibits the
illegal use, sale, transfer, distribution or possession and the unlawful
manufacture of narcotics, drugs or other controlled substances while on the job
or on town premises, including in vehicles used for town business. These
include, but are not limited to, marijuana, cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD,
amphetamines, hallucinogens and barbiturates. Any illegal substance found on
such premises will be turned over to the state police and may lead to criminal
prosecution.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 4-7-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.18 ALCOHOL.
   (A)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited unless
such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized, official event held off
of town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic beverage
containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town premises
unless their possession is part of an authorized, official event. Possession of
such containers in vehicles used for town business is never authorized.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 4-7-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.19 REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   As a condition of employment, employees must abide by the terms of
this subchapter and report to the town any conviction under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring either on or off of a town premises when
conducting town business. The report of a conviction must be made to the town
within five business days after the conviction. The town will then notify the
appropriate contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from
either the employee or another source. These requirements are mandated by the
Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 41 U.S.C. §§ 8101 et seq.
   (B)   An employee who is involved with off-the- job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this subchapter. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town shall consider
the circumstances of each incident including, but not limited to, any adverse
effects the employee’s actions may have on its customers, on other employees,
on the public or on the town’s reputation and image.
   (C)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be directed
to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 4-7-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.20 EMPLOYEE REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility, and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug- and alcohol-related problems.
   (B)   Employees with a personal alcohol- or drug- related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program before work
performance becomes affected.
   (C)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program, nor
will they be excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct in violation
of this subchapter or any other town policies or job requirements.
   (D)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
   (E)   The circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken, that is, whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program or subject to
discipline.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 31.21 ALCOHOL AND DRUG TESTING.
   (A)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
   (B)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior is
reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
      (2)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol rehabilitation
program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the town; or
      (3)   When required by law.
   (C)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern or job
performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, then the supervisor, with
the concurrence of the next level of supervision, may recommend that the
employee have a fitness-for- duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness- for-duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
   (D)   Preemployment drug testing is part of the preemployment physical. The
method of testing will be determined by the town. An applicant who tests
positive for having prohibited drugs in his or her system will not be offered
employment.
   (E)   Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed
to the Clerk- Treasurer.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 4-7-2015)
ROLES AND AUTHORITY
§ 31.35 TOWN SUPERVISOR.
   The position of Town Supervisor is hereby created and shall be filled by an
appropriate person who shall oversee and supervise all employees of the town
except for the Town Marshal and his or her deputies, and who shall, in addition
to those supervisory duties, act as and complete the duties of the Wastewater
Superintendent.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 8-15-2017)
§ 31.36 WASTEWATER OPERATOR/ASSISTANT TOWN SUPERVISOR.
   The position of Wastewater Operator/Assistant Town Supervisor is hereby
created and shall be filled by an appropriate person who shall assist the Town
Supervisor in overseeing and supervising all employees of the town except for
the Town Marshal and his or her deputies, and who shall, in addition to those
supervisory duties, act as and complete the duties of Wastewater Operator.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 31.37 SEASONAL PART-TIME WASTEWATER OPERATOR/LAB ASSISTANT.
   The position of Seasonal Part-Time Wastewater Operator/Lab Assistant is
hereby created and shall be filled by an appropriate person who shall assist at
the wastewater plant as needed.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 31.38 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is hereby authorized to appoint a reasonable number
of Deputy Marshals, provided, however, that no person shall be appointed a
Deputy Marshal until his or her proposed appointment has been approved by a
majority of the members of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Marshal is hereby authorized to appoint reserve officers,
provided, however, that no person shall be appointed a reserve officer until
his or her proposed appointment has been approved by a majority of the members
of the Town Council. The number of reserve officers shall be within the
discretion of the Town Council as it may designate from time to time.
   (C)   The Town Marshal is hereby authorized to issue copies of crash
reports, as well as to charge a fee of $8 for each crash report and a fee of $1
for each photograph furnished by him or her to an insurance company or any
other interested party. In addition, the Town Marshal is hereby authorized to
issue police reports, as allowed by state law, and to charge a fee of $8 for
each police report furnished to any authorized party.
(Ord. 1984-5, passed 4-3-1984; Ord. 1992-2, passed 1-7-1992; Ord. 2012-8,
passed 5-1-2012)
§ 31.39 PART-TIME DEPUTY MARSHAL.
   (A)   The position of Part-Time Deputy Marshal is hereby created and shall
be filled by an appropriate person who shall work with the Town Marshal to
protect and enhance the quality of life in the town by providing a safe and
secure environment for all who live, work or visit.
   (B)   The Part-Time Deputy Marshal shall work not more than 30 hours per
week and is not eligible for employee benefits.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 31.40 RESERVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Reserve officers may not be members of the regular Police Department
but shall have all of the same police powers as regular members except as
limited by the rules of the Department.
   (B)   Reserve officers may, at the discretion of the Town Council, receive a
uniform allowance and compensation for time lost from employment because of
court appearances, as well as be insured for life, accident and sickness
coverage. Police reserve officers are not eligible to participate in any
pension program provided for regular members of the Department.
   (C)   A police reserve officer may not be appointed until he or she has
completed the training and probationary period specified by the rules of the
Department.
   (D)   The term of office of such reserve officers shall be at the discretion
of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1992-2, passed 1-7-1992)
DISCRIMINATION POLICIES; PROCEDURE
§ 31.55 DISCRIMINATION GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Adoption. The town finds that it is necessary and serious to adopt a
grievance procedure providing for prompt and equitable resolution of complaints
alleging any discriminatory action by the town that is prohibited by the United
States Department of Justice regulations implementing Title VI of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964.
      (1)   Roles. In the town’s grievance procedure, the Executive Manager is
defined as the Town Council, the Title VI Coordinator is defined as the Town
Supervisor, and the American’s with Disabilities Act (ADA) Coordinator is
defined as the Town Supervisor.
      (2)   Procedure and manual. The Title VI Policy Manual and Grievance
Procedures for the town are adopted in its entirety by this subchapter. The
town’s Title VI grievance procedure is as described in divisions (B) through
(D) below.
(Res. 2021-2, passed 11-2-2021)
   (B)   How to file a complaint/grievance. Any person who believes that he or
she, individually, as a member of any protected class, or in connection with
any disadvantaged business enterprise, has been excluded from participation in,
denied benefits of or otherwise subjected to discrimination under any town
service, program or activity, whether federally funded or not, may file a
complaint under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended. It is the
policy of the town to comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act.
      (1)   Step one: Complete the town’s complaint/grievance form.
         (a)   Complaint forms can be found on the town’s website
(townofgreentown.com) or at the Town Hall building, 112 N. Meridian Street
Greentown, IN 46936, 765-628-3263 or info@townofgreentown.com.
         (b)   A grievance may be communicated in writing, by email, fax,
telephone or in person, but must follow the format of the town’s complaint form
in order to gather all pertinent information for complaint processing. A
complaint may be submitted by a representative on behalf of another person.
         (c)   Generally, a complaint should include pertinent information,
such as the name, address and telephone number of the individual complaining
(the complainant) and a brief description of the alleged discriminatory
conduct, including the date, place of harm and any witnesses.
         (d)   The full name and address of the respondent (the person, agency,
department or program that allegedly discriminated against the complaint) is
needed. An individual submitting a complaint alleging discrimination may also
include any relevant evidence, including the names of witnesses and supporting
documentation. If a form is deemed incomplete, additional information will be
requested, and the requested information must be submitted within 30 calendar
days. Failure to respond within 30 calendar days may result in an
administrative closure of complaint.
         (e)   At some point, the complaint must be reduced to writing and the
complainant must sign an original copy of the completed complaint form in order
for the town to begin the complaint process. A complainant’s identity shall be
kept confidential except to the extent necessary to conduct an investigation.
All complaints shall be kept confidential.
         (f)   A grievance concerning the accessibility of the town’s services,
programs or activities should be addressed to the ADA Coordinator.
         (g)   All other complaints alleging discrimination by the town and its
employees should be addressed to the Title VI Coordinator.
         (h)   (Note: It is the policy of the town to comply with Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act, to conduct a prompt and impartial investigation of all
allegations of discrimination and to take prompt elective corrective action
when a claim of discrimination is substantiated.)
      (2)   Retaliation. No one may intimidate, threaten, coerce or engage in
other discriminatory conduct against anyone because he or she has taken action,
or participated in an action to secure rights protected by civil rights laws.
The town prohibits retaliation or intimidation against anyone because that
individual has either taken action or participated in action to secure rights
protected by policies of the town. Anyone who feels he, she or they were
intimidated or experienced perceived retaliation in relation to filing a
complaint shall inform the Title VI Coordinator.
      (3)   Step two: Acknowledgment.
         (a)   A grievance should be filed within 180 days of the grievant
party becoming aware of the alleged violation. For ADA issues, the ADA
Coordinator will send an acknowledgment of receipt of the complaint upon
receipt within seven days, and review and respond to the completed form within
15 working days.
         (b)   For all other discriminatory issues, the Title VI Coordinator
shall review the completed form, acknowledge receipt of the complaint and
respond within 15 working days.
      (4)   Step three: processing and informal resolution. Following the
filing of a grievance and the review of the form, the Title VI Coordinator
shall examine deadlines, establish jurisdiction and determine whether, and to
what extent, an investigation of the grievance is warranted. The Title VI
Coordinator, or designee, shall speak with the complainant about the grievance
and possible resolutions, if applicable.
         (a)   If any complaint warrants a full investigation (finding of a
substantiated complaint), the Title VI Coordinator will conduct a full
investigation within 60 calendar days of receipt of the completed complaint,
and the complainant will be notified in writing by certified mail. This notice
will name the investigator and/or investigating agency.
         (b)   The party alleged to have acted in a discriminatory manner will
also be notified by certified mail as of the complaint. This letter will also
include the investigator’s name and will request that this party (the
respondent) be available for a possible interview or to write a position
statement in order to respond to all aspects of the complaint’s allegations and
to state his or her position.
         (c)   In the case of a property or access issue, any resulting
investigation shall be conducted by the ADA Coordinator or his or her designee.
If appropriate, the ADA Coordinator will arrange to meet with the grievant to
discuss the matter and attempt to reach an informal resolution. The Title VI
Coordinator will monitor the ADA investigation.
         (d)   If the complaint is against the town’s Departments/ADA
Coordinator, the Title VI Coordinator will investigate the complaint, and
forward a copy of the complaint to the Town’s Attorney for recommendations.
         (e)   Any informal resolution of a grievance shall be documented in
the Title VI Coordinator/ADA Coordinator’s file/log, and the case will be
closed. Complaints that fall outside of the town’s jurisdiction will be
referred to the appropriate governmental entity, logged as such, and the
complainant will be duly notified.
         (f)   The Title VI Coordinator will inform the state’s Department of
Transportation (INDOT) of any referrals, all comp- laints/investigations, and
its subsequent findings and resolutions (informal or formal) within 30 days of
a completed complaint form and at the time of resolution.
         (g)   If the Title VI Coordinator recommends corrective action, the
Title VI Coordinator will give the respondent/department 30 calendar days to
inform the Title VI Coordinator of the actions taken for compliance. Corrective
action may include actions that the respondent/department will complete at a
future date beyond the initial 30 days to respond, and the plan must include
specific timeframes in which the respondent will complete the action.
         (h)   The Title VI Coordinator shall monitor and log the respondent’s
corrective action compliance. (Noting, the Title VI Coordinator may have to
work in conjunction with the ADA Coordinator and the town department heads to
resolve complaints.)
         (i)   (Note: In the case of sub-contractors, if the respondent/sub-
contractor has not taken the recommended corrective action within the 30-day
period allowed, the Coordinator will deem the respondent/subcontractor to be in
noncompliance with Title VI and its implementing regulations. Noncompliance not
corrected by informal means as described in this section (B) may be subject to
sanctions asked for under 49 C.F.R. §§ 21.13.)
      (5)   Step four: Formal resolution/written determination. If an informal
resolution of the grievance is not reached this division (B) within 60 calendar
days of receipt of the grievance, a written determination as to the validity of
the complaint and description of the resolution, if appropriate, shall be
forwarded by the Title VI Coordinator/ADA Coordinator to the Town Council to
review for approval or direction.
      (6)   Step five: final determination and resolution.
         (a)   The final written determination will include a description of
the complaint, a summary of the investigation and the findings, and, if
appropriate, recommendations and resolutions/corrective actions. All parties
will be properly notified of the outcome of the town’s investigative report.
         (b)   The Title VI/ADA Coordinator shall communicate the final
determination and resolution to the grievant within 90 days of the receipt of
the complaint, unless the Town Council authorizes additional time for further
consideration of the grievance. Any extension of time will be communicated to
the grievant. Any request for reconsideration of the response to the grievance
shall be at the discretion of the Town Council.
         (c)   Further, these procedures are part of an administrative process
that does not provide for punitive damages or compensatory remuneration for the
complaint. However, the town will make every effort to facilitate voluntary and
early resolution of complaints at the lowest level possible. The town may
exercise the option of informal resolution at any stage of the process.
         (d)   In regards to ADA complaints, the resolution of any specific
grievance will require consideration of various circumstances, such as the
specific nature of the complaint, the nature of the services accessed and/or
programs or facilities at issue; the essential eligibility requirements for
participation; the health and safety of others; disparate conditions, and the
degree to which an accommodation/modification would constitute a fundamental
alteration to the service, program or facility, or cause undue hardship on the
town.
         (e)   Any resolution by the town of any one ADA grievance does ‘not’
constitute a precedent upon which the town is bound to, or upon which other
complaining parties may rely.
         (f)   Other discriminatory complaints will examine potential disparate
conditions as well as more intentional acts of discrimination. Accordingly, any
resolution by the town of any one grievance does not constitute a precedent
upon which the town is bound to, or upon which other complaining parties may
rely.
         (g)   If the grievant is not satisfied with the results of the
investigation of the alleged discriminatory practice(s), he or she shall be
advised of his or her right to appeal the town’s decision. Appeals must be
filed within seven days after the town’s final resolution. Unless new facts not
previously considered come to light, reconsideration of the town’s
determination will not be available.
         (h)   Use of the town’s grievance procedure is not a prerequisite to
the pursuit of other remedies. The grievant may seek private counsel or file a
complaint directly with the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), the
state’s Department of Transportation (INDOT) or other appropriate state or
federal funding agency.
         (i)   The foregoing complaint resolution procedure will be implemented
in accordance with the Department of Justice guidance manual,  Investigation
Procedures Manual for the Investigation and Resolution of Complaints Alleging
Violations of Title VI and Other Nondiscrimination Statues, available online
at: justice.gov/crt/abouVcor/Pubs/manuals/complain.pdf.
   (C)   Authority; location of filing. Complaints may also be filed with the
following government agencies:
      (1)   United States Department of Justice:
United States Department of Justice
Civil Rights Division
950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
Office of the Assistant Attorney
General, Main Washington, D.C. 20530
202-514-4609
(TTY) (202) 514-0716
      (2)   State Department of Transportation:
Indiana Department of Transportation
Economic Opportuniy Division 100 N. Senate, Room N750 Indianapolis, IN 46204
Phone: 317-233-6511
Fax: 317-233-0891
      (3)   State Civil Rights Commission:
Indiana Civil Rights Commission
100 N. Senate Ave., Room Nl03
Indianapolis, IN 46204
Toll Free: 1-800-628-2909
Hearing Impaired: 1-800-743-3326 Phone: 317-232-2600
Fax: 317-232-6560
   (D)   Recordkeeping. The town’s ADA Coordinator and the Title VI Coordinator
shall maintain their appropriate grievance files/logs for three years, and the
Title VI Coordinator shall maintain a yearly filing log with all dispositions.
(Res. 2021-2, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 31.56 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   Adoption. The town adopts the 2010 Americans with Disability Act
Standards for Accessible Design and the 2011 Proposed Accessibility Guidelines
for Pedestrian Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way. In accordance with the
requirements of Title II of the American with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”),
the town will not discriminate against qualified individuals with disabilities
on the basis of disability in its services, programs or activities.
   (B)   Employment. The town does not discriminate on the basis of disability
in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all the regulations
promulgated by the United States Equal Opportunity Commission under Title I of
the ADA.
   (C)   Effective communication. The town will generally, upon request,
provide appropriate aids and services leading to effective communication for
qualified persons with disabilities so they can participate equally in the
town’s programs, services and activities, including qualified sign language
interpreters, documents in Braille and other ways of making information and
communications accessible to people who have speech, hearing or vision
impairments.
   (D)   Modifications to policies and procedures. The town will make all
reasonable modifications to policies and programs to ensure that people with
disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all of its programs, services
and activities. For example, individuals with service animals are welcomed in
the town’s offices, even where pets are generally prohibited.
   (E)   Requesting access. Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for
effective communication, or a modification of policies or procedures to
participate in a program, service or activity of the town should contact the
Clerk-Treasurer at the Town Hall building, 765-628-3263, as soon as possible,
but no later than 48 hours before the scheduled event. The ADA does not require
the town to take any action that would fundamentally alter the nature of its
programs or services, or impose an undue financial or administrative burden.
   (F)   Complaints. Complaints that a program, service, or activity of the
town is not accessible to
persons with disabilities should be directed to the Town Hall building, 765-
628-3263. The town will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with a
disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of
providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of policy, such
as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public but are not
accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
   (G)   Grievance procedure.
      (1)   The grievance procedure, detailed in §
31.55, is established to meet the requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). It may be used by anyone who wishes to file a
complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in the provision
of services, activities, programs or benefits by the town. The town’s personnel
policy governs employment-related complaints of disability discrimination.
      (2)   The complaint should be in writing and contain information about
the alleged discrimination such as name, address phone number of complainant
and location, date and description of the problem.
      (3)   Alternative means of filing complaint, such as personal interviews
or a tape recording of the complaint, will be made available for person with
disabilities upon request.
      (4)   The complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or his or her
designee as soon as possible, but no later than 60 calendar days after the
alleged violation to the ADA Coordinator at 112 N. Meridian Street, Greentown,
Indiana, 46936.
      (5)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, ADA
Coordinator or his or her designee will meet with the complainant to discuss
the complaint and the possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days of the
meeting, the ADA Coordinator or his or her designee will respond in writing,
and, where appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, such as
large print, Braille or audio tape. The response will explain the position of
the town and offer options for substantive resolution of the complaint.
      (6)   If the response by the ADA Coordinator or his or her designee does
not satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his or her
designee may appeal the decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the
response to the Town Council.
      (7)   Within 15 calendar days ader receipt of the appeal, the Town
Council will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and possible
resolutions. Within 15 calendar days after the meeting, the Town Council will
respond in writing, and, where appropriate, in a format accessible to the
complainant, with a final resolution of the complaint.
      (8)   All written complaint received by the ADA Coordinator or his or her
designee. Appeals to the Town Council, and responses from these two offices
will be retained by the town for at least three years.
(Res. 2021-3, passed 11-2-2022)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ELECTIONS
Section
   
32.01   Staggered terms and election schedules
   
32.02   Candidate residency requirement
   
32.03   Candidate nomination procedure
   
32.04   Abolishment of legislative body districts
§ 32.01 STAGGERED TERMS AND ELECTION SCHEDULES.
   (A)   The town shall not conduct any election in a year following an
election of the President of the United States of America, as required by I.C.
3-10-7-2.9(c)(1).
   (B)   Commencing in 2014 and thereafter, candidates for all positions which
are eligible for election in any given year shall be required to participate in
the primary election on the first Tuesday in May of the applicable year if more
than one candidate has filed a declaration of candidacy for the given position.
   (C)   The term of office of each officer of the town begins on the January 1
following the election.
   (D)   It is in the best interests of the citizens of the town to have
elections for the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer coincide with the
general elections conducted by the county. Elections for Town Council positions
and the Clerk-Treasurer position may be conducted by a general or municipal
election.
   (E)   A Town Clerk-Treasurer was elected at a municipal or general election
in 2011 for an initial term of three years, thereafter to be elected for a term
of four years commencing with the election of 2014.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 10-1-2013; Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 32.02 CANDIDATE RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The representative from each ward shall be elected by the voters of
the town as a whole.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be required to reside in the town and shall
be elected by the town as a whole.
   (C)   This section came into full force and effect commencing on January 1,
2014, according to law.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-18-2014)
§ 32.03 CANDIDATE NOMINATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Major-party candidates for town offices shall be nominated
through the method of a primary election.
      (2)   The nomination of major-party candidates for a town office through
the method of political town convention has been abolished.
   (B)   The county’s Election Board shall conduct primary elections for the
nomination of major-party candidates for town offices.
   (C)   All state statutes governing primary elections for towns shall apply
to the nomination of major-party candidates for town offices.
   (D)   The town shall not change the method of nominating major-party
candidates for its town offices for a period of not less than 12 years.
   (E)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer has filed a copy of this section in the
office of the county’s Circuit Court Clerk.
(Ord. 2015-7, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 32.04 ABOLISHMENT OF LEGISLATIVE BODY DISTRICTS.
   The Town Council districts have been abolished. All members of the Town
Council shall be designated and elected at large in accordance with the
staggered term schedule established in §
32.01 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 5-18-2021)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Purchasing agency and purchasing agents
   
33.02   Claim payment prior to Council allowance
   
33.03   Town use of credit cards
   
33.04   Town use of online banking and electronic fund transfers
   
33.05   Financing the promotion of economic development and tourism
Asset Capitalization Policy
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Land provisions
   
33.22   Machinery and equipment provisions
   
33.23   Building provisions
   
33.24   Provisions for improvements other than buildings
   
33.25   Recording and accounting
   Purchasing Policy
   33.40   Purchasing with no federal involvement
   33.41   Purchasing with federal involvement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PURCHASING AGENCY AND PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby determines that the purchasing agency for the
town is the President of the Town Council or the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby designates the following persons to serve as
purchasing agents for the town:
      (1)   The President of the Council;
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   The department heads of the town whom the President or Clerk-
Treasurer permit to act on their behalf; and
      (4)   Those additional town employees or other persons who are designated
in writing from time to time.
   (C)   The town will prepare rules or a policy statement to cover aspects of
purchasing as allowed by I.C. 5-22 et seq., as amended, which may apply to all
purchases generally or to a specific purchase as stated in the solicitation for
the purchase, and this policy statement may be amended from time to time in
whole or in part as the Town Council determines appropriate.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 33.02 CLAIM PAYMENT PRIOR TO COUNCIL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make payment of the claims
or claim types as follows:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The government of the United States; or
         (b)   An agency or political subdivision of the government of the
United States.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount of the advance.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses described in an ordinance;
      (13)   Expenses which must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
and
      (14)   Reimbursements to employees of the town so long as proper
documentation is presented at the time of request for reimbursement and so long
as the reimbursement does not exceed $750.
   (B)   Such payment of expenses listed in division (A) above must be
supported by a fully-itemized invoice or bill and properly certified as correct
by the Clerk-Treasurer. Such advance payment of these claims shall be reviewed
and allowed at the Town Council’s next regularly-scheduled or special meeting
following the foregoing preapproved payment of expenses by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2018-8, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 33.03 TOWN USE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The use of credit cards shall be authorized under certain conditions.
   (B)   The use of credit cards by any employee or authorized agent of the
town shall be subject to and in compliance with the provisions detailed in the
provisions and restrictions on credit card use detailed in the town’s policy on
credit card use, which is referenced hereto as if fully incorporated herein.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 33.04 TOWN USE OF ONLINE BANKING AND ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH. The
authorized payments are payroll, bond payments and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT), including online transfers. The Town
Council authorizes the use of online transfers for the purpose of transferring
funds to and between the Town, Water, Wastewater and Stormwater Accounts for
payroll and in the process of paying claims and invoices.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 4-6-2021)
§ 33.05 FINANCING THE PROMOTION OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM.
   (A)   It is in the best interests of the citizens of the town to authorize
and appropriate funds for the purpose of promoting economic development,
tourism and the general positive reputation of the town.
   (B)   The Town Council shall be authorized to budget and appropriate funds
from the town’s General Fund to pay the expenses of, or to reimburse, town
officials for expenses incurred in promoting the best interests of the town.
   (C)   The Town Council shall be authorized to budget and appropriate funds
from the town’s General Fund to contribute to charitable or community
organizations which promote or benefit the residents and economic development
of the town.
   (D)   The contributions or expenses mentioned in divisions (A) through (C)
above shall include, but not be limited to, rental of meeting spaces, meals,
decorations, memorabilia, awards, expenses incurred in promoting industrial,
commercial and residential development, expenses incurred in developing
relationships with other units of government and any other expenses of a civic
or governmental nature deemed by the Town Council to be in the interests of the
town.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 5-17-2016)
ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes the costs of acquiring land or structures,
constructing or improving buildings, structures or other fixed assets and
purchasing equipment which has an appreciable and calculable period of
usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or additions
to the government’s general fixed assets.
   ENTERPRISE FUNDS.
      (1)   Those funds used to account for operations:
         (a)   Which are financed and operated in a manner similar to private
business enterprise, where the intent of the governing body is that the costs,
that is, the expenses, including depreciation, of providing goods or services
to the general pubic on a continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily
through user charges; or
         (b)   Where the governing body has decided that a periodic
determination of revenues earned, expenses incurred or net income is
appropriate for capital maintenance, public policy, management control,
accountability and other purposes.
      (2)   The ENTERPRISE FUNDS of the town shall include the municipally-
owned water, wastewater, and stormwater utilities. The operation of these
utilities shall require enterprise fund accounting and reporting.
   FIXED ASSET. Tangible assets of a durable nature which are employed in the
operating activities of the unit and which are relatively permanent, needed for
the production or sale of goods or services and termed property, plant and
equipment or fixed assets. These assets are not held for sale in the ordinary
course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items, such as land,
buildings, improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment.
   HISTORICAL COST. The case-equivalent price exchanged for goods or services
on the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment and most inventories are
common examples of items recognized under the HISTORICAL COST attribute.
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets which can be observed by one or more of the physical
senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard and
smelled.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 33.21 LAND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town shall capitalize all land purchases regardless of cost. The
exceptions to land capitalization are lands purchased outright, as easements or
as rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructure are roads and
streets, street lighting systems, bridges, overpasses, sidewalks, curbs and
street signs.
   (B)   The original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation and legal services incidental to the purchase,
which includes title work and opinion, the appraisal and negotiation fees,
surveying and the costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose, such
as excavating, demolishing buildings, clean up or inspection and including
contractors’ and town workers’ salaries and benefits.
   (C)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on the date
of transfer, plus any associated costs.
   (D)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and the procedures in divisions (A) through (C) above.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 33.22 MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The definition of MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT is an apparatus, tool or
conglomeration of pieces to form a tool. Said tool will stand alone and not
become a part of a basic structure or building; the tool shall have a useful
life greater than five years.
   (B)   The town will capitalize and tag items with an individual value equal
to or greater than $10,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to form one
unit with a total value greater than the above- mentioned limit will be one
unit.
   (C)   Shipping charges, consultant fees and any other costs directly
associated with the purchase, delivery or setup which makes such equipment
operable for its intended purpose, including contractors’ and town employees’
salaries and benefits, will be capitalized.
   (D)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment will
be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $10,000;
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
   (E)   Examples include:
      (1)   A work truck being equipped with screens, lights or radios for use
as a single unit throughout its life expectancy is considered one unit;
      (2)   A department’s computer, that is, CPU, monitor, keyboard and
printer, is considered one unit; and
      (3)   If police cars are constantly changing light bars or radios to
other vehicles, then the town will capitalize each piece of equipment
separately if it meets the required dollar amount.
   (F)   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at fair
market value on the date of transfer, plus any associated costs.
   (G)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and the procedures in divisions (A) through (F) above.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 33.23 BUILDING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roofs, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting and sprinkler systems or any part
of the basic building.
   (B)   A department’s new building will be capitalized only if it meets the
following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $10,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than five years.
   (C)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize the cost only if the result meets all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $10,000;
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
   (D)   Capital building costs will include the preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest
costs while under construction, account costs of materials and any cost
directly attributable to the construction of the building.
   (E)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value on the
date of transfer, plus any associated costs.
   (F)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and the procedures in divisions (A) through (E) above.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 33.24 PROVISIONS FOR IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The definition of IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS is improvements to
land for better enjoyment which are attached or not easily removed and will
have a life expectancy of greater than two years. Examples are walks, parking
areas and drives, golf cart and recreational paths, fencing, retaining walls,
pools, outside fountains, planters, underground sprinkler systems and other
similar items.
   (B)   Such improvements do not include roads, streets or assets which are of
value only to the public. For example, Chestnut Street is a public street whose
greatest value is to the public. Roads or drives upon town-owned land which
provide support to town facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for
public enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement and is not capitalized.
However, sidewalks installed upon town-owned land for use by the public and for
the support of town facilities are capital assets.
   (C)   The town will capitalize a new improvement other than a building only
if it meets the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $10,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than five years.
   (D)   A department will capitalize improvements or renovations to existing
improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the following
conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $10,000;
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
   (E)   A department’s donated improvements other than buildings will be
recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer, plus any associated
costs.
   (F)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and the procedures in divisions (A) through (E) above.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 33.25 RECORDING AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The town and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the “Chart of Accounts for Cities and Towns” accounting
manual. The cost of property, plants and equipment includes all expenditures
necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For the purpose of
recording the fixed assets of the town and its departments, the valuation of
assets shall be based on historical cost or, where the historical cost is
indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in existence.
   (B)   The town’s municipally-owned utilities shall record the acquisition of
fixed assets in accordance with generally-accepted accounting principles. When
an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply recorded as the
amount of cash paid, including all outlays related to its purchase and
preparation for its intended use.
   (C)   (1)   Assets may be acquired under a number of other arrangements,
including:
         (a)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase price;
         (b)   Purchase on a deferred payment contract;
         (c)   Acquisition under capital lease;
         (d)   Acquisition by exchange for nonmonetary assets;
         (e)   Acquisition by issuance of securities;
         (f)   Acquisition by self-construction; or
         (g)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
      (2)   Some of these arrangements present special problems related to the
cost to be recorded. For example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has long been recognized as a part of the asset cost.
Reference to an intermediate accounting manual will illustrate the recording of
the acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements.
For the purpose of recording the fixed assets of utilities, the valuation of
assets shall be based on historical cost.
   (D)   In addition, an asset register, whether prescribed form 211 or a
computer equivalent, shall be maintained to provide a reasonable assurance
that:
      (1)   Capital expenditures made by the town, its various departments and
utilities are in accordance with the management’s authorization as documented
in the minutes;
      (2)   Transactions of the utilities are recorded as necessary to permit
the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally-accepted
principles;
      (3)   Adequate, detailed records are maintained to ensure accountability
for town- and utility-owned assets;
      (4)   Access to assets is permitted in accordance with the management’s
authorization; and
      (5)   The recorded accountability for assets is compared with the
existing assets every year and appropriate action is taken with respect to any
differences.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-3-2019)
PURCHASING POLICY
§ 33.40 PURCHASING WITH NO FEDERAL INVOLVEMENT.
   For purchasing with no federal involvement, the town will follow state law
outlined in I.C. 5-22 et seq., as well as any other applicable state
provisions.
(Ord. 2023-3, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 33.41 PURCHASING WITH FEDERAL INVOLVEMENT.
   For purchasing with involving federal funds or federal oversight, the
following procedure shall be followed:
   (A)   The town will maintain records sufficient to detail the history of
procurement. These records will include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Rationale for the method of procurement;
      (2)   Selection of contract type;
      (3)   Contractor selection or rejection; and
      (4)   The basis for the contract price.
   (B)   Informal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement for
property or services under a federal award does not exceed the simplified
acquisition threshold (SAT), as defined by federal law, formal procurement
methods are not required. The city may use informal procurement methods to
expedite the completion of its transactions and minimize the associated
administrative burden and cost. The informal methods used for procurement of
property or services at or below the SAT include:
      (1)   Micro-purchases.
         (a)   Distribution. The acquisition of supplies or services, the
aggregate dollar amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold
established by federal law. To the maximum extent practicable, the town should
distribute micro-purchases equitably among qualified suppliers.
         (b)   Micro-purchase awards. Micro-purchases may be awarded without
soliciting competitive price or rate quotations if the town considers the price
to be reasonable based on research, experience, purchase history or other
information and documents it files accordingly.
         (c)   Micro-purchase thresholds. The town adopts the federally-
determined threshold for micro-purchases, reserving the right to increase the
threshold based on an evaluation of risk.
         (d)   If the town decides on a threshold above the federal standard,
the town must include any of the following:
            1.   A qualification as a low-risk auditee, in accordance with the
federally-set criteria for the most recent audit;
            2.   An annual internal institutional risk assessment to identify,
mitigate, and manage financial risks; or
            3.   For public institutions, a higher threshold consistent with
state law.
         (e)   If the town increases the micro-purchase threshold over $50,000,
it must be approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. The town must
submit a request with all federal requirements. The increased threshold is
valid until there is a change in status in which the justification was
approved.
      (2)   Small purchases.
         (a)   Small purchase procedures. The acquisition of property or
services, the aggregate dollar amount of which is higher than the micro-
purchase threshold but does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
Price or rate quotations must be obtained from an adequate number of qualified
sources as determined appropriate by the Town Council.
         (b)   Simplified acquisition thresholds. The town adopts the federal
simplified acquisition threshold.
      (3)   Formal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement for
property or services under a federal financial assistance award exceeds the
SAT, formal procurement methods are required. Formal procurement methods
require following documented procedures. Formal procurement methods also
require public advertising unless a
non-competitive procurement can be used in accordance with federal law. The
following formal methods of procurement are used for procurement of property or
services above the simplified acquisition threshold or a value below the
simplified acquisition threshold:
         (a)   Sealed bids. Bids shall be publicly solicited and a firm fixed-
price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded to the responsible bidder
whose bid, conforming with all the material terms and conditions of the
invitation for bids, is the lowest in price.
         (b)   Sealed bids applicability. Sealed bids will be used when the
following conditions are present:
            1.   A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or purchase
description;
            2.   Two or more responsible bidders are willing and able to
compete effectively for the business; and
            3.   A firm fixed price contract and the selection of the
successful bidder can be made principally on the basis of price.
         (c)   If sealed bids are used, the following requirements apply:
            1.   Bids must be solicited from an adequate number of qualified
sources, providing them sufficient response time prior to the date set for
opening the bids, for local and tribal governments, the invitation for bids
must be publicly advertised;
            2.   The invitation for bids, which will include any specifications
and pertinent attachments, must define the items or services in order for the
bidder to properly respond;
            3.   All bids will be opened at the time and place prescribed in
the invitation for bids, and for local and tribal governments, the bids must be
opened publicly;
            4.   A firm fixed price contract award will be made in writing to
the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Where specified in bidding
documents, factors such as discounts, transportation cost, and life cycle costs
must be considered in determining which bid is lowest. Payment discounts will
only be used to determine the low bid when prior experience indicates that such
discounts are usually taken advantage of; and
            5.   Any or all bids may be rejected if there is a sound documented
reason.
         (d)   Proposals. A procurement method in which either a fixed price or
cost-reimbursement type contract is awarded. Proposals are generally used when
conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed bids. They are awarded in
accordance with the following requirements:
            1.   Requests for proposals must be publicized and identify all
evaluation factors and their relative importance. Proposals must be solicited
from an adequate number of qualified offerors. Any response to publicized
requests for proposals must be considered to the maximum extent practical;
            2.   The town will hire experts to provide technical evaluations of
the proposals received and advice making selections;
            3.   Contracts must be awarded to the responsible offeror whose
proposal is most advantageous to the town, with price and other factors
considered; and
            4.   The town may use competitive proposal procedures for
qualifications-based procurement of architectural/engineering (A/E)
professional services whereby offeror’s qualifications are evaluated and the
most qualified offeror is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and
reasonable compensation. The method, where price is not used as a selection
factor, can only be used in procurement of A/E professional services. It cannot
be used to purchase other types of services though A/E firms that are a
potential source to perform the proposed effort.
      (4)   Noncompetitive procurement. There are specific circumstances in
which noncompetitive procurement can be used. Noncompetitive procurement can
only be awarded if one or more of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The acquisition of property or services, the aggregate dollar
amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold;
         (b)   The item is available only from a single source;
         (c)   The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not
permit a delay resulting from publicizing a competitive solicitation;
         (d)   The federal awarding agency or pass-through entity expressly
authorizes a noncompetitive procurement in response to a written request from
the town; or
         (e)   After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is
determined inadequate.
   (C)   The town shall conduct procurements in a manner that prohibits the use
of statutorily or administratively imposed state, local, or tribal geographical
preferences in the evaluation of bids or proposals, except in those cases where
applicable federal statutes expressly mandate or encourage geographic
preference.
      (D)   When contracting for architectural and engineering (A/E) services,
geographic location may be a selection criterion provided its application
leaves an appropriate number of qualified firms, given the nature and size of
the project, to compete for the contract.
   (E)   The town will follow procedures outlined in CFR 180.300, particularly
that it will verify that the person with whom the town intends to do business
is not excluded or disqualified, by checking (a) SAM exclusions; or (b)
collecting a certification from that person; or (c) adding a clause or
condition to the covered transaction with that person.
(Ord. 2023-3, passed 6-20-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES
      
51.   TRASH AND RECYCLING
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   STORMWATER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Authority of the Clerk-Treasurer
   
50.02   Power to decide rates and charges
   
50.03   Utility rates
   
50.04   Water utility late payment and disconnect policy
   
50.05   Cross-connection policy
Wellhead Policies
   
50.20   Wellhead protection area, inside and outside municipal boundaries
   
Appendix A:   Utilities Fee Schedule
   
Appendix B:   Wellhead Protection Area
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 AUTHORITY OF THE CLERK- TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall control the operations, personnel and
budget of the municipally- owned utilities including, but not limited to, water
and wastewater operations in accordance with I.C. 36-5-6-6 and I.C. 36-5-6-7.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 50.02 POWER TO DECIDE RATES AND CHARGES.
   With a majority of those voting in the election held November 3, 1987,
having voted in favor of taking the municipally-owned utility out of the
jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state for the approval of
rates and charges, said utility is hereby removed from the jurisdiction of the
Public Service Commission of the state for the approval of rates and charges,
all as pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.
(Ord. 1987-8, passed 11-10-1987)
§ 50.03 UTILITY RATES.
   For the use of and services rendered by the sewage works utility, waterworks
utility and stormwater utility, each user shall be charged an amount based upon
a fee schedule as shown in
Appendix A of this Chapter 50.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 7-16-2019)
§ 50.04 WATER UTILITY LATE PAYMENT AND DISCONNECT POLICY.
   (A)   Penalties for late payment. If utility payments are not received in
the Utility Office by the close of business on the due date or the business day
following the due date if the due date is on a day when the Utility Office is
closed, then penalty charges will be added to the account the following day.
The additional balance due will automatically be added to the next billing
statement. In an effort to reduce costs, the town does not mail a separate
notice to the customer informing him or her of this charge.
   (B)   Disconnection of service for non-payment.
      (1)   When a billing becomes past due for 15 days, a notice of delinquent
billing will be sent to those customers having an amount due greater than $10.
The notice will state the amount of arrears and that the water will be
disconnected in seven days unless payment is made in full before that date or
arrangements have been made for payment of the full amount by calling the
Utility Office before the disconnect date.
      (2)   The utility shall not disconnect service for non-payment on any day
on which the utility’s offices are closed to the public or after 12:00 p.m.,
noon, on the day immediately preceding any day on which the Utility Office is
not open to the public.
      (3)   If payment is not received by 8:30 a.m. on the shutoff day, then
service will be terminated. A utility representative will deliver a notice of
termination by placing a card on the door of the service address.
      (4)   If arrangements are made to make payment on a delinquent bill, then
the following will apply.
         (a)   The date on which payment is to be made will not be extended for
longer than five days from the disconnect date. This will be at the discretion
of the Utility Office based on past performance. Only one extension will be
given.
         (b)   If payment is not made on the date agreed upon, then service
will be disconnected the following day.
         (c)   If payment is made by check and the bank, for any reason,
returns the check unpaid, then it will be considered as “no payment” and
service will be terminated immediately.
         (d)   If payment of the delinquent amount is not received in the
Office before the given date for the disconnection of service, then service
will be terminated and the amount owed, together with a reconnection charge of
$40, must be paid before service will resume.
      (5)   If payment is delinquent on a rental property, then a notice will
be sent to both the renter and the owner of the rental property. If the renter
does not pay the amount owed by the shutoff date, then service will be
terminated and the property owner shall make full payment before reconnection.
      (6)   If an account balance is unpaid 30 days after shutoff, then the
meter deposit will be applied to the amount due. Any trash totes and recycling
bins will also be returned to the town at this time.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-3-2006)
§ 50.05 CROSS-CONNECTION POLICY.
   (A)   A cross-connection shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise-separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town’s water system and the other water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety or steam, gases or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, with the direction of
flow depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish, permit to be
established, maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality
unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of said supply shall have been approved by the town’s
Municipal Water and by the state’s Department of Environmental Management, in
accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to be made of
all properties served by the public water system where cross-connection with
the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of inspection and
reinspection shall be established by the town based on the potential health
hazards involved.
   (D)   Upon the presentation of credentials, a representative of the town
shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine the
property served by a connection to the public water system of the town for
cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property. A refusal of access or
a refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross-connections.
   (E)   The town’s Municipal Water is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists and to take such other precautionary measures as are
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
system. Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is
served on the owner, lessee or occupant of the property or premises where a
violation is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until the cross- connection has been eliminated in compliance
with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the town’s Municipal Water that a cross-connection
or an emergency endangers the public health, safety or welfare, requiring
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and delivered to the consumer’s premises, then service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have the opportunity for a hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids and all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories and all other hazardous
users shall install and maintain a reduced-pressure principal backflow
preventer in the main water line serving each building on the premises. The
backflow preventer must be installed in an easily-accessible location not
subject to flooding or freezing and shall not be installed below ground level.
   (H)   This section does not supersede the state’s Plumbing Code or 327
I.A.C. 8-10, but rather is supplementary to them.
   (I)   In addition to 327 I.A.C. 8-10-4(c), certain facilities may require a
backflow-prevention device. The need for a device shall be determined by the
Superintendent of Water. Once determined, the facility will have not less than
90 days to install a backflow-prevention device before being determined
noncompliant.
   (J)   In the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, if an approved
backflow-prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, then the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water consumer
to install such approved device immediately. The water consumer, at his or her
own expense, shall install such approved device at a location and in a manner
approved by the Superintendent of Water and shall have inspections and tests
made of such approved device as are required by the Superintendent of Water and
in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
WELLHEAD POLICIES
§ 50.20 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA, INSIDE AND OUTSIDE MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   In response to requirements set forth in the federal 1986 Clean
Water Act, being 33.U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., the state’s Wellhead Protection
Rule, 327 I.A.C. 8-4.1, was signed into law on March 28, 1997. The rule
established requirements for the development of a wellhead protection plan by
all community public water supply systems located in the state. The program,
regulated by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM),
recognizes that groundwater quality can be threatened by specific land uses and
activities which occur in areas adjacent to public water supply system
production wells.
      (2)   The town developed the Wellhead Protection Plan, approved by IDEM
in February 2006, which delineates the town’s wellhead protection areas and
establishes management strategies that focus on education and prevention as a
means to protect the community’s drinking water quality.
      (3)   Wellhead protection areas are the surface and subsurface areas
which contribute water to a community public water supply system production
well and through which contaminants are likely to move through and reach said
well within a one-, five- or ten-year time of travel. Wellhead protection areas
shall be shown as an overlay on the official zoning map of the town. See
Appendix B of this Chapter 50.
   (B)   Sanitary setback. A sanitary setback is an area within the wellhead
protection area established around a community public water supply system
production well to protect the groundwater from direct contamination. The
sanitary setback radius is 100 feet. Within a sanitary setback, it is
prohibited to use, apply, store, mix, load or transport chemicals other than
those used for treating drinking water.
   (C)   One-, five- and ten-year time of travel. The time of travel is the
calculated length of time a particle of water takes to reach a production well
from a certain point within a wellhead protection area. These areas shall be
managed as the wellhead protection area.
   (D)   Development plan review.
      (1)   During the plan review process, the Zoning Commissioner or Plan
Commission shall:
         (a)   Assess whether the proposed development will prevent potential
groundwater contaminants from entering a public water supply system production
well;
         (b)   Ensure that the proposed development will not unreasonably
endanger the quality of groundwater within the wellhead protection area; and
         (c)   Ensure that development standards are implemented and prohibit
those uses described in division (E) below.
      (2)   For development plan requirements, refer to division (E) below.
   (E)   Development standards and prohibited uses within wellhead protection
areas.
      (1)   All aboveground storage tanks of liquids shall be equipped with
secondary containment to capture spills or leaks. Such containment must
effectively contain at least 110% of the volume of the tank.
      (2)   Landfills and hazardous waste disposal sites shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Infiltration basins, dry wells, cesspools, waste disposal wells and
other injection-type wells shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Underground storage tanks shall be double-walled and equipped with
leak detection. Underground storage tanks shall also be in compliance with all
state and federal regulations.
      (5)   The construction of new sanitary sewer or storm sewer lines within
sanitary setbacks, or within 200 feet of any production well, shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. 2013 BCCO-32, passed 11-18-2013; Ord. 2014-7, passed 5-6-2014) Penalty,
see §
10.99
APPENDIX A: UTILITIES FEE SCHEDULE
   (A)   Recurring charges, sewage works.
      (1)   Metered rates per month per 1,000 gallons.
 
User Type Current Effective   Effective Effective 1/ Effective 1/ Effective 1/
          Rates   Immediately 1/1/25    1/26         1/27         1/28
All users $12.91  $13.43      $13.96    $14.52       $15.10       $15.71
 
      (2)   Base charge per month.
Size of Current Effective   Effective 1/ Effective 1/ Effective 1/ Effective 1/
Meter   Rates   Immediately 1/25         1/26         1/27         1/28
Size of  Current   Effective   Effective Effective 1/ Effective 1/ Effective 1/
Meter    Rates     Immediately 1/1/25    1/26         1/27         1/28
5/8-inch $35.20    $36.61      $38.07    $39.60       $41.18       $42.83
meter
3/4-inch $35.20    $36.61      $38.07    $39.60       $41.18       $42.83
meter
1-inch   $73.60    $76.54      $79.61    $82.79       $86.10       $89.55
meter
1.5-inch $158.07   $164.39     $170.97   $177.81      $184.92      $192.32
meter
2        $265.60   $276.22     $287.27   $298.76      $310.71      $323.14
3        $598.28   $622.21     $647.10   $672.98      $699.90      $727.90
4        $1,033.39 $1,074.73   $1,117.71 $1,162.42    $1,208.92    $1,257.28
6        $2,338.64 $2,432.19   $2,529.47 $2,630.65    $2,735.88    $2,845.31
 
      (3)   Monthly unmetered charge.
 
User Type    Current Effective   Effective Effective Effective 1/ Effective 1/
             Rates   Immediately 1/1/25    1/1/26    1/27         1/28
Nonresidenti Determined by town based on estimated usage
al
Single-
family       $95.03  $98.83      $102.78   $106.90   $111.17      $115.62
residence/un
it
 
      (4)   Stormwater charge per month per ERU, maximum 25 ERUs.
 
Charge                           Current Rates Effective Immediately
Debt service charge              $11.68        $12.15
Operation and maintenance charge $3.00         $3.12
Total stormwater charge          $14.68        $15.27
 
      (5)   Out-of-town customers. Out-of-town water and sewer users will pay a
15% surcharge on their bills.
      (6)   Industrial waste monitoring. The charge shall be the actual cost of
monitoring, but shall not be less than $25 per sample event.
   (B)   Nonrecurring charges.
      (1)   Tap fee.
 
User Type      Effective Immediately
Commercial     $600
Existing homes $300
Multi-family   $500
New homes      $400
 
      (2)   Late payment penalty. The late penalty charge shall be 10% of the
balance.
      (3)   Delinquent arrangement agreement form. The delinquent arrangement
agreement form charge shall be $10.
      (4)   Deposit. The deposit charge for all users shall be $150. The
deposit charge for renters shall be $300.
      (5)   Bad check charge. The bad check charge shall be $50.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 2024-3, passed 7-16-2024; Ord. 2024-4,
passed 7-16-2024)
APPENDIX B: WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1083.png]
 
(Ord. 2013 BCCO-32, passed 11-18-2013; Ord. 2014-7, passed 5-6-2014)
CHAPTER 51: TRASH AND RECYCLING
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Trash removal rates
   
51.02   Yard and garden waste prohibited
   
51.03   Nuisance waste, illegal dumping and littering
Recycling Policies
   
51.15   Recycling program
   
51.16   Definitions
   
51.17   Requirements and exceptions
   
51.18   Recycling receptacles
   
51.19   Determining acceptable materials
   
51.20   Restricted authority to collect
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 TRASH REMOVAL RATES.
   (A)   There shall be and are hereby established the following amended rates
and charges for the provision of trash removal and recycling services rendered
by certain contractors of said services at the direction of the town.
      (1)   Residential housing. Each residential address receiving trash
removal and recycling services from the town shall be charged a fee of $16.25
per month commencing with the first billing cycle for services in January 2022,
billed for the February 2022 billing period.
         (a)   Each residential address receiving trash removal and recycling
services from the town shall be charged a fee of $17.06 per month commencing
with the first billing cycle for services in January 2023, billed in the
February 2023 billing period.
         (b)   Each residential address receiving trash removal and recycling
services from the town shall be charged a fee of $17.92 per month commencing
with the first billing cycle for services in January 2024, billed in the
February 2024 billing period.
      (2)   Commercial. Each commercial address receiving trash removal and
recycling services from the town shall be charged a fee of $16.25 per month
commencing with the first billing cycle for services in January 2022, billed
for the February 2022 billing period.
         (a)   Each commercial address receiving trash removal and recycling
services from the town shall be charged a fee of $17.06 per month commencing
with the first billing cycle for services in January 2023, billed for the
February 2023 billing period.
         (b)   Each commercial address receiving trash removal and recycling
services from the town shall be charged a fee of $17.92 per month commencing
with the first billing cycle for services in January 2024, billed for the
February 2024 billing period.
   (C)   The aforementioned fee shall be included in the monthly wastewater
bill issued by the Municipal Works Office and shall be collected by the Clerk-
Treasurer along with wastewater billings. If the monthly trash removal fee is
not paid by the due date stated on the bill, then a late charge of 10% will be
assessed together with any and all costs of collection. Delinquent charges for
trash services, as well as applied penalties, recording fees and service
charges, shall constitute a lien upon the property and may be collected in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-9-25-11.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 51.02 YARD AND GARDEN WASTE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to set out for collection by
the town’s collection crews any yard or garden waste. For the purposes of this
section, YARD OR GARDEN WASTE shall include, but not be limited to, grass
clippings, weeds, leaves, brush and similar organic waste.
   (B)   In the event that any individual does set out yard or garden waste for
collection in violation of this section, collection crews may refuse to collect
any and all of the waste materials set out for collection by said individual.
(Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-4-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 NUISANCE WASTE, ILLEGAL DUMPING AND LITTERING.
   Resolution 2008-02 is hereby adopted in its entirety pursuant to § 15 of
said resolution and ordained and declared to be in full force and effect within
the town.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 9-2-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
RECYCLING POLICIES
§ 51.15 RECYCLING PROGRAM.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by this subchapter, the Town Council is
authorized to establish and implement a program for the special collection of
recyclable materials within the town subject to the terms and conditions of
this subchapter. The Town Council is authorized to establish and implement such
a program for all, or a portion, of the households in the town which are served
by the town’s waste collection service. The number and location of households
for which special waste collection service is provided may be adjusted by the
Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 51.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Any waste material generated by domestic use and
otherwise eligible for collection by the town’s collection crews which is
designated by the Town Council as material eligible for collection as part of a
recycling program. By way of example and not limitation, such materials may
include glass, aluminum and certain categories of paper products. Waste
materials generated by commercial, industrial or other sources not subject to
collection by the town’s collection crews shall not be included within the
definition of RECYCLABLE MATERIALS for the purposes of this subchapter even
though they are of a category of materials which would be subject to collection
for recycling purposes if generated by domestic use.
   RECYCLING PROGRAM. A program wherein specific waste materials, as designated
by the Town Council or its designee, which are generated by domestic use are
identified as being subject to special and separate collection for the purpose
of recycling or resale. Such RECYCLING PROGRAM shall be considered as
commencing on a date certain as specified by the Town Council, and may be of
determinate or indeterminate duration. The provisions of this subchapter shall
be effective only during the term of a RECYCLING PROGRAM as defined herein.
   SPECIAL COLLECTION. A separate collection which is intended to collect
recyclable materials generated by domestic use as part of a recycling program.
Such SPECIAL COLLECTIONS may be made by the town’s collection crews or by
private collection crews under contract with the Town Council to provide such
services during the term of any such contract and upon the terms and conditions
contained in any such contract.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 51.17 REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Recycling in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter shall
be mandatory.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any citizen of the town to place recyclable
material for collection other than for special collection, except that nothing
in this subchapter shall be construed as prohibiting households otherwise
subject to this subchapter from:
      (1)   Separating out recyclable materials and disposing of the same at a
recycling center; or
      (2)   Donating the same to groups or organizations soliciting donations
of such recyclable materials.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 9-4-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 RECYCLING RECEPTACLES.
   The receptacles provided by the town for receiving recyclable materials for
special collection shall be clearly marked as being the property of the town
and intended for receiving recyclable materials only.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 51.19 DETERMINING ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   The Town Council or its designee is authorized to designate those
recyclable materials which will be collected as part of a recycling program.
   (B)   The list of recyclable materials may be amended from time to time.
Only materials so designated are to be placed in the receptacles provided by
the town for special collection.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 9-4-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 RESTRICTED AUTHORITY TO COLLECT.
   (A)   The contents of the receptacles provided by the town as part of a
recycling program may be collected, obtained, possessed or picked up only by
the town’s collection crews or by the employees of private collection
contractors under written contract with the town, acting by and through the
Town Council, to perform such collection services upon the terms and conditions
set out in any such contract.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any private citizen, firm, corporation or
scavenger to collect, obtain, possess, pick up or remove from any properly-
designated receptacle any designated recyclable material which has been placed
for special collection as part of a recycling program of the town except as
provided in division (A) above.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 9-4-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty for a violation of §
51.02 of this chapter shall be a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100
for each incident.
   (C)   Any private citizen, firm, corporation or scavenger who is cited for a
violation of §§
51.15 through
51.20 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100. Each
violation may be considered as constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. 90-9, passed 9-4-1990; Ord. 1991-3, passed 6-4-1991)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Service and Billing Procedures
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Authority
   
52.03   Service conditions
   
52.04   Connection charge
   
52.05   Charged by user class
   
52.06   Rates and charges
   
52.07   Usage conditions affecting charges
   
52.08   Stronger-than-normal sewage and waste
   
52.09   Special rate contracts
   
52.10   Billing and collection
   
52.11   Appeals
   
52.12   Studies to evaluate rates
Connection and Usage Regulations
   
52.25   Definitions
   
52.26   Connection requirement
   
52.27   Prohibitions
   
52.28   Unpolluted water discharges
   
52.29   Industrial cooling water discharges
   
52.30   Accidental and unusual discharges
   
52.31   Permit fees
   
52.32   Private sewage disposal systems
   
52.33   Building sewers
   
52.34   Discharge regulations
   
52.35   Interceptors and traps
   
52.36   Pretreatment requirement
   
52.37   Pretreatment and control facilities
   
52.38   Wastewater monitoring and reporting
   
52.39   Wastewater sampling and analysis
   
52.40   Powers of Superintendent or Inspector
   
52.41   Appeals
 
   
52.99   Penalty
SERVICE AND BILLING PROCEDURES
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning. Throughout, “shall” is
mandatory while “may” is permissive.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. Has the same meaning as defined in §
52.25 of this chapter.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council or any duly- authorized officials acting on its
behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for the treatment of sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT or NPDES PERMIT. Has
the same meaning as defined in §
52.25 of this chapter.
   NH3N or AMMONIA NITROGEN. Has the same meaning as defined in §
52.25 of this chapter.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   As defined by origin, wastewater from segregated domestic or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 200 milligrams per liter;
         (b)   S.S. not more than 200 milligrams per liter;
         (c)   P not more than ten milligrams per liter; and
         (d)   NH3N not more than 28.5 milligrams per liter.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Includes all costs, whether direct or
indirect, which are necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection,
transport and treatment on a continuing basis and to produce discharges to
receiving waters which conform with all related federal, state and local
requirements. These COSTS include replacement costs.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   P or PHOSPHORUS. Has the same meaning as defined in §
52.25 of this chapter.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, whether natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of
treatment works in order to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. Has the same meaning as defined in §
52.25 of this chapter.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or S.S. Has the same meaning as defined in §
52.25 of this chapter.
   TOWN. The Town of Greentown, Indiana, acting by and through the Town
Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the costs of the operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to 33 U.S.C.
§ 1284(b).
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source, waste
characteristics, function and process or discharge similarities. The divisions
in the user charge system are as follows.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility which
discharges industrial wastes to a publicly-owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
religious, charitable or educational function which, based on a determination
by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 52.02 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewage system, pumping stations and sewage conveyance system, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage system and
for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit the dumping of wastes into
the town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes in order to comply with the pretreatment
standards included in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit issued to the town.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 52.03 SERVICE CONDITIONS.
   The Council shall not grant free service or use of the sewage treatment
system to any person, group or entity. It is not necessary for an area or
parcel of real estate to be annexed to the town in order to receive sewage
treatment.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 52.04 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   The owner of any lot, parcel of real estate or building connecting to the
sewage works shall pay a connection charge in the amount of $75 for each
connection prior to being permitted to make such connection. The Town Council
finds such connection charge to be a reasonable and equitable pro rata cost of
constructing a local or lateral sewer adequate to serve the property so
connecting and the cost of providing a connection to the sewer system.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 52.05 CHARGED BY USER CLASS.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover from each user
and user class revenue which is proportionate to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the costs of
operation and maintenance, including replacement costs, of the treatment works.
User charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected
service life of the sewage works equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purposes
of this subchapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential, Class I;
      (2)   Commercial, Class I;
      (3)   Governmental, Class I;
      (4)   Institutional, Class I; and
      (5)   Industrial, Class I.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 52.06 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Generally. For the use of and services rendered by said sewage works,
rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot,
parcel of real estate or building which is connected with the town’s sanitary
system or which otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water
or other liquids either directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewer system
of the town. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as provided and shall be in an amount determinable as
follows in divisions (B) through (E) below. For the utilities fee schedule, see
Chapter 50,
Appendix A of this code.
   (B)   Metered water users. Sewage rates and charges shall be based on the
quantity of water used on or in the property or premises which is subject to
such rates and charges. The same is measured by the water meter there in use,
plus a base charge except as otherwise provided. For the purposes of billing
and collecting the charges for sewage service, water meters shall be read
monthly, or a period equaling a month. The water usage schedule on which the
amount of said rates and charges shall be determined is as follows:
      (1)   The treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage per month; and
      (2)   The base rate per month.
   (C)   Unmetered water users. For residential users of the sewage works who
are unmetered water users, or where accurate meter readings are not available,
the monthly charge shall be determined as an average of single-family dwelling
units, except as provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each
month, or a period equaling a month. Unmetered residential single-family
dwelling units shall be charged a rate to be determined by the town on an
individual basis by applying the metered rates as per division (B) above to an
estimated usage and meter size.
   (D)   Town as user. For the services rendered to the town, said town shall
be subject to the same rates and charges provided or to charges and rates
established in harmony therewith.
   (E)   Industrial waste monitoring. In order to recover the cost of
monitoring industrial wastes, the town shall charge the user the actual cost of
monitoring but not less than $25 per sample. This charge will be reviewed and
revised on the same basis as all other rates and charges in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 52.07 USAGE CONDITIONS AFFECTING CHARGES.
   (A)   The town may make proper allowances in determining the sewage bill for
quantities of water shown on the records to be consumed but which are also
shown to the satisfaction of the town to not enter the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewer system
obtained from sources other than the utility which serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the appropriate rates as per §
52.06 of this chapter except as is hereinafter provided for in divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(6) below.
      (1)   In the event that a lot, parcel of real estate or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the
town sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the town and the water used thereon
or therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter
not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall install
and maintain at his or her expense meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices
or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for
determining sewage discharge.
      (2)   In the event that a lot, parcel of real estate or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids in the
town’s sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town and, in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested party shall install and maintain at
his or her expense meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate
and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for determining
sewage discharge.
      (3)   In the event that two or more residential lots, parcels of real
estate or buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into
the town’s sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, are users of
water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in
each such case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be
averaged for each user and the base charge, flow rates and charges shall apply
to each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings
served through the single water meter.
      (4)   In the event that a lot, parcel of real estate or building
discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the
town’s sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewer system, then the owner or other
interested party shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for determining sewage discharge.
      (5)   In the event that two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such cases, billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out elsewhere herein. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room or
rooms, or any other space or spaces, in which cooking facilities are provided.
      (6)   In order that domestic and residential users of sewage services
shall not be penalized for the sprinkling of lawns during the months of June,
July and August, the billing for treatment plant sewage service for residences
or domestic users for said months of June, July and August shall be based on
the water usage for the previous months of March, April and May. In the event
that the water usage for said previous months of March, April and May is
greater than the water usage for said months of June, July and August, then the
billing for sewage service shall be computed on the actual water used in the
month for which the sewage service bill is being rendered. As applicable to the
sprinkling rate, domestic or residential sewage service shall apply to each
lot, parcel of real estate or building which is occupied and used as a
residence. Said sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are
partially or wholly used for industrial or commercial purposes. In the event
that a portion of such premises shall be used for commercial or industrial
purposes, the owner shall have the privilege of separating the water service so
that the residential portion of the premises is served through a separate
meter, and in such cases, the water usage as registered by the water meter
serving such portion of the premises used for residential purposes would
qualify under the sprinkling rate.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 52.08 STRONGER-THAN-NORMAL SEWAGE AND WASTE.
   (A)   In order that rates and charges may reflect the costs of providing the
services rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not only on the
volume, but also on the strength and character of the stronger- than-normal
domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of. The
town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all sewage
and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer
system in such manner and by such method as the town may deem practicable in
order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central sampling
point which is available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid, suspended solids in excess
of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid; phosphorus in excess of ten milligrams
per liter of fluid or ammonia nitrogen in excess of 28.5 milligrams per liter
of fluid. Additional charges for treating stronger- than-normal domestic waste
shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.26 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.26 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (3)   Rate surcharge based upon P. There shall be an additional charge of
$0.86 per pound of phosphorus for P received in excess of ten milligrams per
liter of fluid.
      (4)   Rate surcharge based upon NH3N. There shall be an additional charge
of $1.20 per pound of ammonia for NH3N received in excess of 28.5 milligrams
per liter of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids, five- day biochemical oxygen
demand, ammonia nitrogen and phosphorous contained in the waste shall be in
accordance with the latest copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, written by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation, and in conformance with “Guidelines Establishing Test
Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants”, 40 C.F.R. part 136, published in
the Federal Register on October 16, 1973.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 52.09 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the sewage works where clearly-definable costs to
the sewage works can be determined, and such rate shall be limited to such
costs. Said contract shall be in compliance with 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 52.10 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly. At the end of each year, in conjunction with a regular bill, each user
shall be given notice of the rates to be charged for operation, maintenance and
replacement for that user for the next year.
   (C)   (1)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from liability in the
event that payment is not made as herein required.
      (2)   The owners of properties served which are occupied by a tenant or
tenants shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for
the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by such tenant or
tenants, provided that such examination shall be made at the office at which
said records are kept during the hours that such office is open for business.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon be attached thereto. The time at which such
rates or charges shall be paid is fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of
the bill.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 52.11 APPEALS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town after the approval of the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Administrator on the
user charge to the Town Council. Any decision of the Town Council concerning
user charges may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction under the
appeal procedures provided for in the state’s Administrative Adjudication Act,
as provided by I.C. 4-21.5-5.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 52.12 STUDIES TO EVALUATE RATES.
   (A)   (1)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services shall be
in proportion to the cost of providing services to the various users or user
classes, the town shall cause a study to be made within a reasonable period of
time following the first two years of operation following the date on which
this subchapter went into effect. The town shall adjust its rates and charges
to reflect the results of the study.
      (2)   Such study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excessive-strength effluents from
industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the waste
treatment system’s operation and maintenance, replacements, debt service
requirements and capital improvements.
   (B)   (1)   On a biennial basis thereafter, within a reasonable period of
time following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause similar
studies to be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness, equity and
proportionality of the rates and charges for sewage services on a continuing
basis. Upon completion of such a study, the town shall revise and adjust the
rates and charges as necessary in accordance therewith in order to maintain the
proportionality and sufficiency of the rates.
      (2)   Such studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the
town, by a firm of certified public accountants or a firm of consulting
engineers, which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such
combination of officers, employees, certified public accountants or engineers
as the town shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 3-12-1990)
CONNECTION AND USAGE REGULATIONS
§ 52.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning. Throughout, “shall” is
mandatory while “may” is permissive.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligrams per liter, which is utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic
matter under standard laboratory procedures with nitrification inhibition in
five days at 20ºC.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside of the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys stormwater or
other clear-water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called a HOUSE CONNECTION or LATERAL.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm waste
or other clear-water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.
      (1)   Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform
bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the
treatment works is designed to treat such pollutants and in fact does remove
such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE is not
subject to a precise definition, but generally contemplates removals on the
order of 80% or greater. Minor, incidental removals on the order of 10% to 30%
are not considered substantial.
      (2)   Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered
compatible include:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Total organic carbon;
         (c)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
         (d)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
         (e)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin, except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works.
   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS. The town’s Construction Standards as adopted and
amended from time to time.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater through treatment in a pretreatment
facility approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from a
sanitary convenience.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewage system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/FLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross- connections from
storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface runoff,
street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is distinguished
from infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town through its
Town Council to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAINTENANCE. The rehabilitation, modification or improvement of a building
sewer using methods not requiring excavation which include, but are not limited
to, root removal, cleaning and televising.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry which:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
the standards issued under 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from said treatment works.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT or NPDES PERMIT. A
permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System for the
discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant
to 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface groundwater, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows.
   NH3N. The same as ammonia nitrogen measured as nitrogen. Laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
Standard Methods as defined herein.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Has the same meaning as defined in §
52.01of this chapter.
   P or PHOSPHORUS. The chemical element phosphorus.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group or other entity.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately-owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food which has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and consists of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewater from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewage system
at which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   REPAIR. A rehabilitation, modification or improvement to an existing
building sewer which requires excavation or partial replacement.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which stormwater, surface water and groundwater is not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water- carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, including polluted
cooling waters. The three most common types of SEWAGE are as follows:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes, including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration and inflow, which are carried to wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer;
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, including the wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling
waters, which are discharged from any industrial establishment and result from
any trade or process carried out in that establishment; and
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilets and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and to dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in its concentration of any
given constituent or in its quantity of flow exceeds more than three times the
average 24-hour concentration of flow during normal operation for any period of
duration longer than ten minutes, adversely affecting the collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of the analysis being completed, of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, which is prepared and published jointly by
the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association
and the Environment Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, groundwater or unpolluted water
from any source, and to which sanitary or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Municipal Sewage Works or his or
her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedures.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism, will cause adverse
effects such as genetic mutations, cancer or physiological manifestations, as
defined in the standards issued pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of a quality which:
      (1)   Is equal to or better than the effluent criteria in effect;
      (2)   Would not cause a violation of receiving water quality standards;
and
      (3)   Would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary sewers and
wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in sewage solids which is transformed
to gases or vapors when heated at 55ºC for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the continuous or
intermittent passage of water.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 52.26 CONNECTION REQUIREMENT.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes which are situated within the town and
abut on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located a
public sanitary sewer of the town are hereby required, at their expense, to
install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer, in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter, within 60 days after the date of official notice to do so,
provided that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste
in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the town or in
any area under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwater, surface water, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted
industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of unpolluted
waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility.
   (C)   Roof runoff, stormwater, groundwater, surface water, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. However, no person shall use such sewers without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made to any sanitary or
storm sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers,
pumping stations, lift stations and force mains and in the sewage treatment
plant, including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner any wastewater or other polluted waters on public or private
property within the jurisdiction of the town except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (F)   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 UNPOLLUTED WATER DISCHARGES.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling systems, condensing systems
or swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer. Where a storm sewer is
not available, discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and
the state.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 52.29 INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER DISCHARGES.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils, greases
or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for the removal of pollutants, and the
resulting clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
52.28 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 52.30 ACCIDENTAL AND UNUSUAL DISCHARGES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes which are discharged to the sewer system, accidentally
or otherwise.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 52.31 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first paying the appropriate fee to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   There shall be two different classes of permit fees, as follows.
      (1)   A permit and inspection fee of $50 shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time of application for all residential or commercial building
sewer permits.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee of $100 shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time of application for all industrial sewer permits.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.32 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
52.26 of this chapter, a building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencing the construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $50 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A temporary permit shall be issued upon payment of the appropriate
application and inspection fee as detailed in division (B) above. A final
permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until
the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent and the
county’s Board of Health. The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
The temporary permit shall expire 30 days from the date of issue or upon
issuance of the final permit, whichever is earlier.
   (D)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendation of the state and the county’s Board
of Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this subchapter
and the current building codes and standards prescribed by the state, and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be
abandoned and filled with suitable material as required by the town’s
Construction Standards and any applicable sections of the state’s code or
provisions of the state’s Administrative Code.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days. The private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and debris in accordance with all local and state
regulations and filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements which may be imposed by any appropriate
regulatory authority including, but not limited to, the county’s Board of
Health or the state’s Department of Environmental Management.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of a building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage which may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (B)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (C)   Existing building sewers which allow inflow or infiltration, as
determined by the town, and which do not meet or exceed the requirements of the
Construction Standards of the town shall be replaced between the building and
the public sewer as required herein.
   (D)   Building sewers which allow inflow or infiltration, as determined by
the town, and which meet or exceed the requirements of the Construction
Standards of the town shall be repaired at the source of inflow or infiltration
in accordance with the Construction Standards of the town and as approved by
the town.
   (E)   Existing building sewers which do not meet or exceed the requirements
established in the Construction Standards of the town or which allow inflow or
infiltration, as determined by the town, may not be used in connection with new
building construction. All new construction shall require a connection to the
updated sewer system within the town.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in the excavation, placing of pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling of trenches shall all conform to the requirements of
the Construction Standards of the town. In the absence of code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the “A.S.T.M. and W.E.F. Manual of Practice, No. FD-5” shall
apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit for gravity flow to the public sewer, the
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall connect roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of inflow or infiltration to a building sewer
or building drain which in turn is connected, whether directly or indirectly,
to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   Within a public right-of-way, connection of the building sewer into
the public sewer shall be the responsibility of the town and shall conform to
the requirements of the town’s Construction Standards or, in the absence
thereof, to the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
“A.S.T.M. and the W.E.F. Manual of Practice, No. FD-5”. All such connections
shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviations from the prescribed
procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent before
installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The applicant shall provide access to the Inspector to all structures
and all areas of structures for the purpose off establishing compliance with
52.33(D) through
52.33(I) of this chapter.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (L)   The maintenance of any building sewer from the building drain to the
public sanitary sewer of the town shall be borne by the owner of the house,
building or property which is serviced by said building sewer. The town shall
not be responsible for the costs associated with the maintenance of any
building sewer between the building drain or drains and the point of connection
to the public sewage system of the town.
   (M)   The repair of any building sewer shall be the responsibility of the
owner of the house, building or property between the building drain or drains
and the public right-of-way. The town shall not be responsible for the costs
associated with the repair of any building sewer between the building drain or
drains and the right-of-way, but it is responsible for the connection between
the right-of-way and public sanitary sewer.
   (N)   For the purpose of maintaining or repairing any existing building
sewer, any owner may cross upon the land of another, including property owned
by the town, for the sole purpose of repairing or maintaining the building
drain under the following conditions.
      (1)   The access across the adjacent landowner’s or the town’s property
is necessary and unavoidable in order to make the essential repairs to or
conduct maintenance on any building sewer.
      (2)   The adjacent landowner or the town shall be notified in writing of
the need to access a building sewer upon his, her, or its land not less than
ten days prior to any work commencing.
      (3)   The offending owner shall restore and return the affected land to
the same condition, or to a substantially similar condition, as it was in prior
to any disturbance for the repair or maintenance of any building sewer.
      (4)   In the event that a building sewer crosses a public roadway, the
town shall be reimbursed for the costs, if any, of restoring the public
roadway.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 52.34 DISCHARGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic, as described in the Clean
Water Act, § 307(a), being 33 U.S.C. 1317(a), or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in a sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or a hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works or interfering with any treatment
process;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in such quantities or of such size as
is capable of causing an obstruction to the flow in sewers or otherwise
interfering with proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited
to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers,
tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in concentrations exceeding the limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction over such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (8)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or which are
amendable to treatment only to such a degree that the sewage treatment effluent
cannot meet the requirements of the other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters; or
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids, such as, but
not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or unusual
concentrations of dissolved solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium
chloride and sodium sulfate;
         (b)   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable-tanning solutions;
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities so as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volumes of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   (B)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters containing the substances or
possessing the characteristics enumerated in division (A) above, and which in
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Require any industry to submit information on wastewater
quantities and characteristics and to obtain prior approval for discharges;
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage as defined;
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads which may be harmful to the treatment
works; or
         (e)   Require the payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, then the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment or flow- equalizing facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (D)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole in the building sewer together with such necessary
meters and other appurtenances to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Agents of the town, the state’s Water Pollution Control Agency and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
   (E)   (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole, except that applications for
NPDES permits and reports thereof shall be conducted in accordance with the
rules and regulations adopted by the USEPA as per 40 C.F.R. part 136.
      (2)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the downstream manhole in the public sewer
nearest to the point where the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily-accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property. The particular analysis involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all
outfalls, whereas pH is determined from periodic grab samples.
   (F)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern at such rates as are compatible with rate provisions.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.35 INTERCEPTORS AND TRAPS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided by the
property owner when they are necessary, in the opinion of the town, for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; however, such interceptors
or traps will not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the town and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. They shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature and shall be
of substantial construction, gastight, watertight and equipped with easily-
removable covers. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or
traps shall be maintained in continuously efficient operation at all times by
the owner at his or her expense, and shall be available for inspection at all
times by the town or its designated representative.
   (C)   Records of the proper cleaning and maintenance of interceptors or
traps, and of the disposal of the materials removed, shall be kept at the
location and be available for inspection by the Inspector at all times. Said
records and the information resulting from the cleaning and disposal activities
required by this section, including any records of analyses performed or
maintenance on such interceptors or traps, shall be retained for a minimum
period of three years.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2015-3, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 52.36 PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT.
   The pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries
prior to discharge to the treatment works is required, and it is subject to the
rules and regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (USEPA) as per 40 C.F.R. part 403 and “Guidelines Establishing Test
Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants”, 40 C.F.R. part 136, in addition to
any more stringent requirements established by the town and any subsequent
state or federal guidelines, rules or regulations.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.37 PRETREATMENT AND CONTROL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information related to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
town, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval
in writing is granted.
   (B)   Where such facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspections by the town to
determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state and local laws and permits.
   (C)   The owner shall maintain operating records and shall submit to the
town a monthly summary report of the character of the influent and effluent to
show the performance of the treatment facilities and for comparison against the
town’s monitoring records.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 52.38 WASTEWATER MONITORING AND REPORTING.
   The town may require users of the treatment works other than residential
users to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows and characteristics.
Such measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the expense of the user.
If made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the town.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 52.39 WASTEWATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   For the periodic establishment of charges provided for in Appendix A
of Chapter 50 of this code, the strength of wastewaters shall be determined
from samples taken at the aforementioned structures for any period of time, for
such duration and in such manner as the town may elect or at any place mutually
agreed upon between the user and the town. Appropriate charges for sampling and
analysis may be assessed to the user at the option of the town.
   (B)   The results of routine sampling and analysis by the user may also be
used for the determination of charges after verification by the town.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 52.40 POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT OR INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly-authorized employees or
representatives of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall
be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. The Superintendent or his or her representative
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including in
metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries,
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kinds and sources of discharge
to the sewers, waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly-authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises as established
by the company. The company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against loss of or
damage to its property by town employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or a failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required in §
52.34(D) of this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly- authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly-negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, the inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly-negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 52.41 APPEALS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town after approval by the Town
Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby a
user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Administrator of the
sewage system to the Town Council. Any decision of the Town Council concerning
the sewage system may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction under
the appeal procedures provided for in the state’s Administrative Adjudication
Act, as provided by I.C. 4-21.5-5 .
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Noncompliance with §§
52.25 through
52.41.
      (1)   Any person found to be willfully or negligently tampering with,
breaking, damaging or defacing any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the Municipal Sewage Works of the town shall be subject to arrest
and prosecution.
      (2)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.41 of this chapter shall be served by the town, or by its duly-authorized
agent, with written notice of the alleged violation. The aforementioned notice
shall provide a reasonable time period for correction of the alleged violation
and shall notify the alleged violator of his or her obligation to cease any and
all violations. Any person who shall continue any violation, other than a
violation of §
52.27(B) of this chapter, beyond the time limit provided for in the notice
served upon him or her pursuant to this division (B)(2) shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding $75 for each violation. Each day in which a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense subject to fine.
      (3)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.41 of this chapter shall be liable to the town for any losses, costs or
damages occasioned by the town as a result of the violation including, but not
limited to, reasonable engineering and attorney fees.
      (4)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
52.27(B) of this chapter shall be subject to fine of $10 per day.
         (a)   A person may avoid the fine noted in division (B)(4) above by
consenting to an inspection as described in §
52.33(J) of this chapter for the purpose of establishing compliance with §
52.27(B) of this chapter.
         (b)   A person consenting to such an inspection who is found to be in
violation shall be given 90 days to comply with the provisions of §
52.27(B) of this chapter without being subject to the aforementioned fine.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 9-7-2010)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Adoption of statutory provisions
   
53.02   Department of Stormwater Management
   
53.03   Special taxation district
Stormwater Department Policies
   
53.15   Definitions
   
53.16   User fee
   
53.17   User fee rate
   
53.18   Billing and payment
   
53.19   Department fund
   
53.20   Appeals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 ADOPTION OF STATUTORY PROVISIONS.
   In compliance with I.C. 8-1.5-5-4 and I.C. 8-1.5-5-5, the Council hereby
adopts and incorporates herein by reference the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5-
1 through I.C. 8-1.5-5-32, inclusive, as from time to time amended as the
“Act”.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 53.02 DEPARTMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-4, there is hereby created and established in the
town a Department of Stormwater Management. The Department shall be controlled
and managed by the Municipal Works Board of the town as previously established
by the Town Council, all pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-3. The Board shall have the
powers specified under I.C. 8-1.5-5-6 together with all other authority,
powers, duties and responsibilities as set forth in the Act. Each Director
shall serve a term of two years, with the first appointed Director serving only
one year so as to create staggered terms as required by I.C. 8-1.5-5-4(d).
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 53.03 SPECIAL TAXATION DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-5, there is hereby created and established a
special taxation district, to be known as the “Town of Greentown Stormwater
Management District”. The jurisdiction of the district shall include all
territory within the territorial boundaries of the town. Under I.C. 8-1.5-5-5,
the district shall have the power to levy a special user fee for the purpose of
stormwater management together with all other authority, powers, duties and
responsibilities as set forth in the Act.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-3-2012)
STORMWATER DEPARTMENT POLICIES
§ 53.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning. Throughout, “shall” is mandatory
and not discretionary, while “may” is permissive.
   BOARD. The Municipal Works Board, composed of the three Directors appointed
by the Town Council.
(I.C. 8-1.5-5-4)
   BUSINESS. An act or means of providing goods or services for compensation.
   COMBINED RESIDENTIAL/BUSINESS PROPERTY. A residential property in which
business is conducted on the property. For additional clarification, see
NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY and RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   COMPACTED GRAVEL. A gravel, crushed stone or rock surface which impedes or
prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the soil. Such surfaces are
subject to vehicular or equipment traffic or are used as a roadway, driveway,
alley or parking surface.
   DEPARTMENT. The town’s Department of Stormwater Management, created by the
Town Council under I.C. 8-1.5-5-4.
   DISTRICT. The special taxation district created by the Town Council, which
includes all of the territory in the town.
(I.C. 8-1.5-5-3.5)
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). The average amount of impervious surface
area for a single-family residential property located within the corporate
limits of the town. The ERU for the town is 3,210 square feet of impervious
surface, which shall be used in calculating user fees for nonresidential
properties.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA. The horizontal surface area of property covered
with materials which include, but are not limited to, concrete, asphalt,
rooftop, blacktop and compacted gravel such that the infiltration of stormwater
is prevented or impeded. The total amount of impervious surface area located on
a property without regard to the topographic features of the property shall be
included. Driveways, roadways, parking lots and other areas used for vehicular
traffic are considered to be IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREAS. However, undisturbed
land, tilled agricultural land, ponds, lawns and fields are not considered to
be IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREAS.
   INFILTRATION. The process of allowing runoff to penetrate the ground surface
and flow through the upper soil surface.
   LOT. The smallest separately-segregated parcel, unit or plot of land having
an identified owner, boundaries and surface area which is documented for
property tax purposes by the county’s Assessor.
   MULTI-FAMILY PROPERTY. A lot or parcel on which a building is situated which
contains two residential units shall be billed at one ERU per sewer service
connection. A MULTI-FAMILY PROPERTY containing three or more residential units
shall be classified and billed as a nonresidential property, and the bill shall
be sent to the owner of the property.
   MULTI-UNIT PROPERTY. A nonresidential property which contains more than one
unit within the same parcel. MULTI-UNIT PROPERTIES include, but are not limited
to, commercial plazas, strip malls, apartment buildings, commercial office
buildings and medical complexes. MULTI-UNIT PROPERTIES shall be classified and
billed as nonresidential, and the bill shall be sent to the owner of the
property.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. All properties not categorized as residential
properties. NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Agricultural property;
      (2)   Businesses and commercial property;
      (3)   Multi-unit property;
      (4)   Churches and other places of religious affiliation;
      (5)   Community centers;
      (6)   Federal, state and local government property;
      (7)   Hospitals and medical centers;
      (8)   Combined residential/business property with a “prohibited home
occupation” in accordance with §
156.038 of this code. “Permitted home occupations” are considered residential
properties for stormwater utility-billing purposes;
      (9)   Industrial property;
      (10)   Multi-family property which contains three or more units;
      (11)   Mobile home parks;
      (12)   Retirement centers;
      (13)   Schools and colleges; and
      (14)   Common areas of residential developments including, but not
limited to, parking lots, maintenance areas, recreational areas, office areas
and all other areas not occupied by residential units.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, corporation, partnership, institution or
other entity.
   PRIVATE STORMWATER FACILITIES. Facilities not subject to the control of or
not under the ownership of the local, state or federal government which are
designed to transport, move or regulate stormwater.
   PUBLIC STORMWATER FACILITIES. Facilities subject to the control of or under
the ownership of the local, state or federal government which are designed to
transport, move or regulate stormwater. This includes facilities in rights-of-
way.
   PUBLIC TRANSPORT. Within this chapter, any land type, regardless of property
ownership, which is primarily used for public roadways or regulated drainage,
specifically legal drains and public roads.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A lot or parcel on which a building or mobile home is
situated in which a single family resides, including a combined residential/
business property with a home service/occupation which is permitted by §
156.038 of this code. A multi-family property consisting of two residential
units in a single building shall also qualify as a RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   STORMWATER. The chemical compound of hydrogen and oxygen which is produced
from atmospherical clouds as rain, snow, sleet or hail.
   STORMWATER BOUNDARY AREA. The geographical territory of the district.
   STORMWATER DEPARTMENT USER. Any person owning real estate in the district.
   STORMWATER DEPARTMENT USER FEE. A charge imposed on any Stormwater
Department user.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM. All constructed facilities, including structures and
natural watercourses under the ownership or control of the Department, which
are used for collecting and conducting stormwater to, through and from drainage
areas to the point of final outlet. This includes, but is not limited to, any
and all of the following: inlets, conduits and appurtenant features, creeks,
channels, catch basins, ditches, streams, streets, curbs and gutters, culverts,
retention or detention basins and pumping stations, and excludes therefrom
waters of the state.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 7-24-2012; Ord. 2017-8, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 53.16 USER FEE.
   (A)   The stormwater utility will fund stormwater management activities by
charging user fees to the owner or tenant of each property containing
impervious surface area within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The monthly stormwater utility user fee is uniform for all residential
properties assigned one ERU. The user fee for one ERU shall be established as
per Appendix A of Chapter 50 of this code.
   (C)   (1)   User fees for nonresidential properties will be based upon the
amount of impervious surface area contained within the property. The amount of
impervious surface area for each property has been determined based upon
measurements using aerial photography and by field measurements.
      (2)   The monthly stormwater utility user fee for a nonresidential
property or a multi-family property with three or more units, which is defined
as nonresidential, is determined using an ERU multiplier, which is calculated
by dividing the total impervious surface area within the property by the base
ERU of 3,210 square feet. This method allows for nonresidential property user
fees to be based upon the amount of impervious surface area within the property
as compared to the amount of impervious surface area of the average residential
property. For example, a nonresidential property with 30,000 square feet of
impervious surface area receives an ERU multiplier of 9.3, from 30,000 divided
by 3,210. The ERU multiplier shall be rounded to one decimal place, and the
minimum ERU shall be one. The ERU multiplier is then multiplied by the current
fee for one ERU to determine the actual user fee in dollars.
   (D)   Impervious surface areas shall be measured in the field or based on
the aerial footprint of the impervious surfaces. Angled rooftops shall be
measured as if they were flat. All impervious surfaces within the parcel
boundaries of a property shall be measured, with the exception of those
surfaces located within a road right-of-way. For multi-unit properties, all
units within a single parcel and all impervious surfaces, such as parking lots
or walkways, shall be measured and billed to the property owner. For multilevel
or multistory structures containing more than one level, the footprint of the
building and other impervious surfaces shall be measured and billed to the
property owner.
   (E)   When improvements are made to nonresidential properties, the property
owner or developer shall provide to the town the impervious surface area
measurements for the completed project in square feet in order for that
property to be accurately billed.
   (F)   Public rights-of-way are exempt from the user fee.
   (G)   If the monthly stormwater utility fee is not paid by the due date
stated on the bill, then a late charge of 10% will be assessed together with
any and all costs of collection, if any, including reasonable attorney fees and
the costs of collection. Delinquent charges for stormwater services, as well as
applied penalties, recording fees and service charges, constitute a lien upon
the property and may be collected in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-
9-25-11.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 11-7-2017; Ord. 2017-9, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 53.17 USER FEE RATE.
   The Department user fee rate is designed to recover and be able to pay the
cost of rendering stormwater service to the users of the stormwater system, and
it shall be the basis for assessment of the district’s Department user fee.
This rate is established so as to maintain adequate fund reserves to provide
for reasonably-expected variations in the cost of providing services as well as
for variation in the demand for services. This rate shall be evaluated
biannually as to its sufficiency to satisfy the needs of the Department.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 7-24-2012)
§ 53.18 BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   A stormwater user fee shall be imposed on each and every property,
lot, parcel of land, building or premises which contains impervious surface
area. All stormwater user fees shall be calculated monthly. Charges for
stormwater service shall be billed by and through the town’s Utility Office on
the monthly utility bills.
      (1)   For sewer users normally receiving monthly utility bills for town
services, the stormwater utility fee shall be included in the monthly bill
rendered to the established customer.
      (2)   For properties not receiving monthly utility bills for town
services, the bill or statement for the stormwater utility user fee shall be
sent to the property owner as identified by property tax records.
   (B)   The billing and collection procedures for stormwater service shall be
the same as for sanitary sewer utility billing and collection.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 53.19 DEPARTMENT FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-8, I.C. 8-1.5-5-9 and I.C. 8-1.5-5-11, the
Board established with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town a special Department
Fund. Within this Fund, the Board shall maintain an “Operation and Maintenance
Account”, a “Depreciation Account”, a “Surplus Account” and such other accounts
as are from time to time necessary for the operation of the Department and
district. The Fund shall be maintained separately from the town’s General Fund
and shall not revert to the town’s General Fund.
   (B)   All user fees, including interest and penalties, together with such
other sums collected by the Department shall be deposited in the Fund. All
disbursements from the Fund shall be authorized by the Board, appropriated by
the Town Council and used exclusively for the operation, maintenance and
improvement of the town’s stormwater including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Stormwater management services, such as studies, design, permit
review, plan preparation and development review;
      (2)   Operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the stormwater
collection, storage, conveyance or treatment infrastructure;
      (3)   Project costs related to constructing major or minor structural
improvements to the town’s stormwater system;
      (4)   Administrative costs associated with the management of the
Department;
      (5)   Debt service financing of the district’s stormwater-related capital
improvements, if any;
      (6)   Funding of studies, such as water quality, aerial photography and
geotechnical work associated with the planning of stormwater-related
infrastructure; and
      (7)   Implementation of any Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) developed
and approved by the state’s Department of Environmental Management for
compliance with state and federal statutes.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 7-24-2012)
§ 53.20 APPEALS.
   (A)   Nonresidential property owners may petition the Town Council through a
request submitted to the Town Office for a stormwater user fee billing
adjustment if the property classification, namely residential or
nonresidential, assigned to the property is inaccurate, if sufficient cause
exists to believe the property’s ERU was determined erroneously or if
alteration to the property has been made which might be expected to have
changed the property’s ERU determination. One appeal will be allowed per
property owner or per property alteration. The petitioner must not be
delinquent and must file the petition within 90 days of receiving the
stormwater user fee bill in question in order to have fees in that bill subject
to adjustment. Bills prior to 90 days before the filing of a petition are not
subject to adjustment. The petitioner shall state in writing why it is believed
that an adjustment is justified and shall include any supporting evidence,
clearly defined, with the petition.
   (B)   The Council’s appointed reviewer shall examine the petition and any
submitted documentation, make a determination as to whether the petitioner is
entitled to an adjustment of the ERU determination and notify the petitioner in
writing of the decision and the basis for the decision within 60 days. The
reviewer may grant, deny or modify the adjustment requested in the petition. If
it is determined that the petitioner is entitled to an adjustment of the ERU
determination, then the adjustment will be made in the form of a credit against
future stormwater user fees.
   (C)   The petitioner may appeal the reviewer’s decision to the Council
provided that the Council has received written notice of the appeal from the
petitioner within 30 days of the reviewer’s determination. The Council shall
notify the petitioner of the time and place of the hearing on the appeal. The
Council will make a determination as to whether the petitioner is entitled to
an adjustment of the ERU determination and notify the petitioner in writing
within 30 days of the appeal hearing. The Council may grant, deny or modify the
adjustment requested in the petition. If it is determined that the petitioner
is entitled to an adjustment of the ERU determination, then the adjustment will
be made in the form of a credit against future stormwater user fees.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 11-7-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
Traffic Regulations
   
70.01   Speed limits
   
70.02   Failure to stop at stop sign
Parking, Standing or Stopping of Vehicles
   
70.15   Parking policy
   
70.16   Parking space usage
   
70.17   Parking prohibitions
   
70.18   Alley parking
   
70.19   Loading and unloading
   
70.20   Commercial vehicle parking
   
70.21   Handicapped parking places
   
70.22   Towing of illegally-parked vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of 30 mph on any street in the corporate limits of the town except U.S. 35-IN
22 and IN 213, which shall be controlled by the state.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of 20 mph when a street is posted as a school zone.
(Ord. 1998-9, passed 10-6-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 FAILURE TO STOP AT STOP SIGN.
   Any person who fails to stop at any intersection where a stop sign has been
erected pursuant to any ordinances providing for stop signs to be erected or
who fails to yield the right-of-way at any of the intersections where a yield
sign has been erected pursuant to the provisions of any ordinances of the town
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a penalty.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 7-11-1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING, STANDING OR STOPPING OF VEHICLES
§ 70.15 PARKING POLICY.
   (A)   The owner, operator, driver or person in charge of any vehicle upon
the streets or alleys of the town shall conform to and obey the regulations of
this subchapter concerning the parking of vehicles.
   (B)   Whenever the word PARKING is used in this subchapter, it is hereby
defined to mean the standing of any vehicle in any street or alley of the town.
The word PERSON shall include an individual or any legal entity, including
partnerships, firms or corporations. Any references to streets, alleys or
highways shall include only those portions of said rights-of-way which are in
the town.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 3-2-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 PARKING SPACE USAGE.
   (A)   Except where angled parking is permitted by local ordinance, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an adjacent curb shall
be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with
and within 12 inches of the right- hand curb.
   (B)   Vehicles may be parked diagonally where markings are so provided, but
it shall be unlawful for the owner, operator, driver or person in charge of a
vehicle to park said vehicle so that a portion of it or its load extends or
protrudes out onto the traveled portion of the street or tends to obstruct the
flow of traffic on the street.
   (C)   White or yellow lines shall be painted on the streets of the business
district of the town designating spaces wherein vehicles may be parked. Such
painting shall be under the supervision of the Town Council and the Town
Marshal, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle outside of
the spaces so indicated.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 3-2-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, the law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private drive;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (G)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (H)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (I)   When properly sign-posted, within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to
any fire station or on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire
station within 75 feet of said entrance;
   (J)   Alongside or opposite a street excavation or obstruction if stopping,
standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (K)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street; or
   (L)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 3-2-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 ALLEY PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator, driver or person in charge of
a vehicle to park said vehicle in an alley. However, this section shall not
apply to trucks or other vehicles while in the process of making deliveries to
merchants.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 3-2-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit the loading or
unloading of trucks in the town as long as said trucks are merely stopped
temporarily in front of or at the side of the place of business to which they
are delivering or from which they are receiving their load.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 70.20 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE PARKING.
   The driver of any commercial vehicle, including a truck or tractor with a
registered gross weight in excess of 7,000 pounds, or of any semitrailer,
tractor or trailer is prohibited from parking such vehicle on any street in the
town except in an emergency, when delivering construction equipment and
materials to a building site or temporarily during such time as the vehicle is
being loaded or unloaded. The driver or registered owner, or both, of any
vehicle parked in violation of this section may be held liable for a violation
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall park in a parking place reserved for handicapped
parking any vehicle which does not have displayed an unexpired handicapped
person’s or disabled veteran’s placard issued by the state or by any other
state or municipality.
   (B)   No person shall park in a reserved handicapped parking place while
displaying a placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is
entitled.
   (C)   No person shall park a vehicle in a handicapped parking place unless
said person is at that time in the process of transporting a handicapped or
disabled person.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 3-2-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 TOWING OF ILLEGALLY-PARKED VEHICLES.
   In the event that any vehicle is parked in violation of this subchapter in
such a manner so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the normal and
safe movement of traffic, the Town Marshal or his or her deputies may cause
such illegally-parked vehicle to be towed and stored at the expense of the
driver or owner of the vehicle.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Speed limit violations. Any person who violates any provision of §
70.01 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not to exceed
$10.
   (C)   Stop sign violations. Any person who fails to stop at any intersection
where a stop sign has been erected pursuant to any ordinances providing for
stop signs to be erected or who fails to yield the right-of- way at any of the
intersections where a yield sign has been erected pursuant to the provisions of
any ordinance of the town shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a
penalty in the sum of $25.
   (D)   Parking violations.
      (1)   Whoever violates §§
70.15 through
70.19 or §
70.21 of this chapter shall be fined $5 for the violation. Any person who fails
to pay this fine within 30 days of the violation shall be charged an additional
$10.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
70.20 of this chapter shall be fined $25. Any person who fails to pay this fine
within 30 days of the date of the violation shall be fined an additional $10
for each 30-day period that the fine is late.
      (3)   Any person who has received a notice to appear and answer to any
parking violation may, unless otherwise provided in the notice and within the
time specified in the notice, appear at the town’s Utility Office to pay the
fine and in writing admit the charge, waiving a hearing in court, which shall
be deemed to be a complete satisfaction for the violator. The violator shall be
given a receipt which so states.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 7-11-1989; Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 1998-9,
passed 10-6-1998)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
71.01   Operation of golf carts
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Operator, requirements
   
71.04   Operator, financial responsibility
   
71.05   Inspection and permitting
   
71.06   Number of occupants
   
71.07   Time of allowed operation
   
71.08   Location of allowed operation
   
71.09   Slow-moving vehicle sign or flashing lamp required
   
71.10   Traffic and parking rules
   
71.11   Reciprocity policy
Toy Vehicles
   
71.25   Enforcement
   
71.26   Definitions
   
71.27   Traffic laws applying to bicycles
   
71.28   Riding, speed and parking of bicycles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.01 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   The operation of a golf cart within a town is strictly prohibited under
state law unless the town has established an ordinance. With this subchapter,
the town declares that a golf cart may be operated within the town limits so
long as it is registered, equipped and operated in full compliance with all of
the terms and conditions set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle with four wheels which was originally designed for
operation on a golf course and is powered by a battery or internal combustion
motor.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license issued by the state or by any other state
of the union which lawfully provides for the operation of a motor vehicle.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by applicable state law for motor vehicles
operated on public highways within the state.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
      (1)   A UTV (utility vehicle), including side- by-side, multi-passenger
off-road vehicles but excluding four wheelers and three wheelers; and
      (2)   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE will be used synonymously with GOLF CART.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 71.03 OPERATOR, REQUIREMENTS.
   Only persons over the age of 16 years of age who hold a valid driver’s
license may operate a golf cart upon the streets, roadways, intersections and
alleys located within the town.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 OPERATOR, FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The operator of a golf cart must be able to show financial responsibility
when operating the golf cart. Written proof of financial responsibility must be
available at all times either by placing the same on the golf cart or via the
carrying of the same by the operator of said golf cart.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 INSPECTION AND PERMITTING.
   (A)   The owner or lessee of a golf cart must obtain an inspection of the
golf cart by the Town Marshal or his or her designee one time prior to the
vehicle’s operation within the town. The purpose of the inspection shall be to
determine whether the golf cart is safe and in compliance with the terms and
provisions of this subchapter and with any other applicable laws of the state.
Said inspection shall include a review of the financial responsibility
associated with the golf cart. The Police Department shall keep a record of the
inspection.
   (B)   Registration tags shall be placed upon the rear-most point of the
vehicle and should be displayed in a location which is clearly visible.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 71.06 NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall not exceed the number of
persons for whom factory seating is installed.
   (B)   The operator of a golf cart and all occupants shall remain seated in
said factory seating at all times while the golf cart is in motion.
   (C)   No part of a person’s body may stick outside of the golf cart.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 TIME OF ALLOWED OPERATION.
   Unless a golf cart is equipped with two operating headlights, one on each
side of the front of the golf cart, and two operating tail lights with brake
lights, one on each side of the rear of the golf cart, which are visible from a
distance of 500 feet, a golf cart may not be operated on the streets, roadways,
intersections or alleys located within the town during the darkness from dusk
to dawn or during inclement weather when headlights are necessary for other
motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 LOCATION OF ALLOWED OPERATION.
   (A)   A golf cart may be operated on the streets, roadways, intersections
and alleys of the town.
   (B)   A golf cart may not, under any circumstances, be operated on
sidewalks, on grass rights-of-way, in the town’s parks, along state highways
within the town, namely SR 22 (Main Street) and SR 213 (South Maple Street) or
on private property unless the owner of the private property consents. A golf
cart may be operated through marked intersections to cross said state highways
only at 90 degrees.
   (C)   Golf carts must not be operated inside of the town’s parks at any time
except during town-approved festivals.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE SIGN OR FLASHING LAMP REQUIRED.
   A golf cart operated on the streets, roadways, intersections or alleys
within the town shall at all times display either a slow-moving vehicle (SMV)
sign on the rear of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-21-9-3 or an amber
flashing lamp in accordance with I.C. 9-21-9-4.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 71.10 TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES.
   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with all traffic and parking rules
and regulations adopted by the town and the state which govern the operation of
motor vehicles. Operators must be at least 16 years old with a valid operator’s
license.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 RECIPROCITY POLICY.
   (A)   This section applies to anyone bringing in a golf cart or off-road
vehicle for the Greentown Rummage Days, the Howard County 4H Fair or any other
town-recognized festival or fair held within the town limits.
      (1)   Anyone bringing a golf cart or off-road vehicle into the town for
the above events must have a valid, current and visible permit belonging to
another municipality within the state.
      (2)   The operator of any golf cart or off- road vehicle shall abide by
all sections of this subchapter at all times and is subject to enforcement
actions, fines and penalties.
      (3)   (a)   The reciprocity shall be valid only during the hours of the
recognized event and shall not exceed seven consecutive days.
         (b)   Reciprocity will expire at the conclusion of the event and is
only honored during the scheduled hours of the recognized event.
      (4)   Any violator of this section must register his or her golf cart or
off-road vehicle with the town’s Police Department and have his or her vehicle
inspected if they wish to continue its use and operation outside of the above
limitations.
   (B)   There is no fee under this section so long as the above criteria are
met.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
TOY VEHICLES
§ 71.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Marshal or Town Deputies shall enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The fines assessed in this subchapter shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer to the town in accordance with the Ordinance Violation Bureau as
established by the town.
(Ord. 2001-2, passed 6-5-2001)
§ 71.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every peddled vehicle, usually having two tandem wheels, propelled
solely by human power and upon which any person may ride.
   ROLLER SKATES or IN-LINE SKATES. Any device designed to be attached to the
feet which has wheels, is usually propelled by human power and is intended to
carry or propel an individual.
   SCOOTER. Any board, surface or other similar device which is usually
propelled by human power and usually has attached two wheels, and which is used
to carry or propel an individual.
   SIDEWALK. All sidewalks laid out as such by the town or reserved by custom
or usage for the use of pedestrians as sidewalks, but excluding paths, trails
or walks which are designated by appropriate signs for bicycle travel.
   SKATEBOARD. Any board, surface or other similar device which is usually
propelled by human power and usually has attached four wheels, and which is
used to carry or propel an individual.
   STREETS. Any highway, street, roadway, lane or other public way used for
vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 2001-2, passed 6-5-2001)
§ 71.27 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLYING TO BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be subject to the
statutes of the state and to the provisions of this subchapter which are
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except for such provisions which by
their nature can have no application.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a sidewalk or a town-owned property
shall be deemed to be a roadway and shall be subject to the same traffic
control as is the street adjacent to which such sidewalk parallels or to which
such property lies.
(Ord. 2001-2, passed 6-5-2001)
§ 71.28 RIDING, SPEED AND PARKING OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No operator of a bicycle shall cause his or her bicycle to weave or
curve to and fro upon a sidewalk or roadway. He or she shall ride the same in a
straight and continuous line only.
   (B)   No person shall operate his or her bicycle at a speed greater than
that which permits him or her to bring his or her bicycle to a stop within the
assured clear distance ahead.
   (C)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than against the
curb, or upon a sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or against a building
or at the curb except in such a manner so as to afford no obstruction to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 2001-2, passed 6-5-2001) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Toy vehicle violations. Violations of §§
71.25 through
71.28 shall be subject to a maximum fine of $50.
      (1)   First offense. Upon the first violation hereof, the bicycle,
skateboard, roller skates, in-line skates or scooter of the offending party who
was riding or otherwise operating the same shall be confiscated by the Town
Marshal or his or her deputies and held by the Town Marshal for a period of
five days. After said time, said item shall be returned to such party or to the
parent or guardian of a juvenile party.
      (2)   Second offense. Upon the second violation hereof, the bicycle,
skateboard, roller skates, in-line skates or scooter of the offending party who
was riding or otherwise operating the same shall be confiscated by the Town
Marshal or his or her deputies and held by the Town Marshal for a period of
five days, and the offending party shall be fined in an amount not to exceed
$25. After said time, said item shall be returned to such party or to the
parent or guardian of a juvenile party.
      (3)   Subsequent offenses. Upon all subsequent violations hereof, the
bicycle, skateboard, roller skates, in-line skates or scooter of the offending
party who was riding or otherwise operating the same shall be confiscated by
the Town Marshal or his or her deputies and held by the Town Marshal for a
period of 30 days, and the offending party shall be fined an amount not to
exceed $50. After said time, said item shall be returned to such party or to
the parent or guardian of a juvenile party.
(Ord. 2001-2, passed 6-5-2001)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop sign intersections
   
II.   Stop-traffic
   
III.   One-way alley
   
IV.   Recreational and toy vehicles
   
V.   Commercial truck operations
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGN INTERSECTIONS.
Intersection Sign Details Stop Details Ord. Passed
Intersection            Sign Details  Stop Details             Ord.   Passed
                                      Traffic approaching
Avalon Drive and Avalon               Avalon Court East and
Court East and West     1 stop sign   West stops before        1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      Traffic approaching Hall
Avalon Drive and Hall   1 stop sign   Street from Avalon Drive 1989-3 7-11-1989
Street                                stops before proceeding
                                      across the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Crow Pass and Bluejay                 Bluejay Drive from Crow
Drive                   1 stop sign   Pass stops before        1997-7 8-5-1997
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
East Blaine Street and                North Gladstone from
North Gladstone Street  1 stop sign   East Blaine Street stops 1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
East Blaine Street and                North Meridian Street
North Meridian Street   1 stop sign   from East Blaine Street  1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      stops before proceeding
                                      across the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
East Lincoln Street and               South Meridian Street
South Meridian Street   1 stop sign   from East Lincoln Street 1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      stops before proceeding
                                      across the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
East Payton Street and                North Maple Street from
North Maple Street      1 stop sign   East Payton Street stops 1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Elliott Court and                     Holiday Drive from
Holiday Drive           1 stop sign   Elliott Court stops      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Grant Street and Maple                Maple Street from Grant
Street                  1 stop sign   Street stops before      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Grant Street and North                North Meridian Street
Meridian Street         2 stop signs  from Grant Street stops  1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching Hall
Hall Street and Hunt    1 stop sign   Street from Hunt Street  1989-3 7-11-1989
Street                                stops before proceeding
                                      across the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Hammer Street and                     Carter Street from
Carter Street           1 stop sign   Hammer Street stops      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
Harvey Drive and East                 Holiday Drive from
Holiday Drive           1 stop sign   Harvey Drive stops       1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Harvey Drive and                      Eastcrest Drive from
Eastcrest Drive         2 stop signs  Harvey Drive stops       1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
High School Road and                  Harrison Street from
Harrison Street         1 stop sign   High School Road stops   1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
High School Road and                  South Meridian Street
South Meridian Street   1 stop sign   from High School Road    1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      stops before proceeding
                                      across the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
High Street and                       Meridian Street from
Meridian Street         1 stop sign   High Street stops before 1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Holiday Court and                     Holiday Drive from
Holiday Drive           1 stop sign   Holiday Court stops      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Holiday Drive and       1 stop sign   Howard Street stops      1989-3 7-11-1989
Howard Street                         before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Holiday Drive and South               South Meridian Street
Meridian Street         1 stop sign   from Holiday Drive stops 1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Holiday Lane and                      Holiday Drive and Howard
Holiday Drive           1 stop sign   Street from Holiday Lane 1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      stops before proceeding
                                      across the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Indiana Street and                    Blaine Street from
Blaine Street           2 stop signs  Indiana Street stops     1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Indiana Street and                    Payton Street from
Payton Street           1 stop sign   Indiana Street stops     1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Killdeer Road and                     Hummingbird Drive from
Hummingbird Drive       1 stop sign   Killdeer Road stops      1997-7 8-5-1997
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Meadows Court and                     Meadows Drive from
Meadows Drive           1 stop sign   Meadows Court stops      1997-7 8-5-1997
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
North Covalt Street and               Grant Street from North
Grant Street            2 stop signs  Covalt Street stops      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
North Covalt Street and               Uncle Tom Street from
Uncle Tom Street        1 stop sign   North Covalt Street      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      stops before proceeding
                                      across the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
North Gladstone Street                Payton Street from North
and East Payton Street  1 stop sign   Gladstone Street stops   1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
North Gladstone Street                Grant Street from North
and Grant Street        1 stop sign   Gladstone Street stops   1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching High
North Green Street and                Street from North Green
High Street             1 stop sign   Street stops before      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
North Green Street and                Payton Street from North
Payton Street           2 stop signs  Green Street stops       1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching West
North Green Street and                Grant Street from North
West Grant Street       2 stop signs  Green Street stops       1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
North Harrison Street                 Grant Street from North
and Grant Street        2 stop signs  Harrison Street stops    1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
North Howard Street and               Blaine Street from North
East Blaine Street      2 stop signs  Howard Street stops      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
North Howard Street and               Grant Street from North
East Grant Street       2 stop signs  Howard Street stops      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
North Howard Street and               Payton Street from North
East Payton Street      1 stop sign   Howard Street stops      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
North Indiana Street                  Grant Street from North
and Grant Street        2 stop signs  Indiana Street stops     1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
North Mill Street and                 Grant Street from North
East Grant Street       2 stop signs  Mill Street stops before 1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      One curve sign on North
                                      Mill Street and one
North Mill Street and                 curve sign on Uncle Tom
Uncle Tom Street        2 curve signs Street directs traffic   1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      around the corner of
                                      North Mill Street and
                                      Uncle Tom Street
                                      Traffic approaching
North Washington Street               Grant Street from North
and Grant Street        2 stop signs  Washington Street stops  1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching High
North Washington Street               Street from North
and High Street         1 stop sign   Washington Street stops  1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
North Washington Street               Payton Street from North
and Payton Street       2 stop signs  Washington Street stops  1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Payton Street and North               North Meridian Street
Meridian Street         2 stop signs  from Payton Street stops 1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Railroad Street and                   Gladstone Street from
Gladstone Street        1 stop sign   Railroad Street stops    1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Railroad Street and                   Howard Street from
Howard Street           2 stop signs  Railroad Street stops    1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Railroad Street and                   Indiana Street from
Indiana Street          2 stop signs  Railroad Street stops    1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Railroad Street and                   Meridian Street from
Meridian Street         1 stop sign   Railroad Street stops    1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Raven Lake Drive and                  Meadows Drive from Raven
Meadows Drive           1 stop sign   Lake Drive stops before  1997-7 8-5-1997
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Robin Court and                       Killdeer Road from Robin
Killdeer Road           1 stop sign   Court stops before       1997-7 8-5-1997
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
South Covalt Street and               Lincoln Street from
East Lincoln Street     2 stop signs  South Covalt Street      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      stops before proceeding
                                      across the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
South Covalt Street and               Walnut Street from South
East Walnut Street      2 stop signs  Covalt Street stops      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching Hall
South Covalt Street and               Street from South Covalt
Hall Street             1 stop sign   Street stops before      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      Traffic approaching West
South Golding Street                  Walnut Street from South
and West Walnut Street  2 stop signs  Golding Street stops     1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching West
South Green Street and                Walnut Street from South
West Walnut Street      1 stop sign   Green Street stops       1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
South Howard Street and               Lincoln Street from
East Lincoln Street     2 stop signs  South Howard Street      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      stops before proceeding
                                      across the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
South Howard Street and               Walnut Street from South
East Walnut Street      2 stop signs  Howard Street stops      1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
South Hunt Street and                 Lincoln Street from
East Lincoln Street     2 stop signs  South Hunt Street stops  1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
South Hunt Street and                 Walnut Street from South
East Walnut Street      2 stop signs  Hunt Street stops before 1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
South Indiana Street                  Lincoln Street from
and East Lincoln Street 1 stop sign   South Indiana Street     1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      stops before proceeding
                                      across the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
South Indiana Street                  Walnut Street from South
and East Walnut Street  2 stop signs  Indiana Street stops     1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
South Mill Street and                 Lincoln Street from
East Lincoln Street     1 stop sign   South Mill Street stops  1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching East
South Mill Street and                 Walnut Street from South
East Walnut Street      2 stop signs  Mill Street stops before 1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      Traffic approaching West
South Washington Street               Walnut Street from South
and West Walnut Street  1 stop sign   Washington Street stops  1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Sunflower Court and                   Meadows Drive from
Meadows Drive           1 stop sign   Sunflower Court stops    1997-7 8-5-1997
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Uncle Tom Street and                  Maple Street from Uncle
Maple Street            1 stop sign   Tom Street stops before  1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      proceeding across the
                                      intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
Walnut Street and South               South Meridian Street
Meridian Street         2 stop signs  from Walnut Street stops 1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
West Grant Street and                 Carter Street from West
Carter Street           2 stop signs  Grant Street stops       1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
West Grant Street and                 Hammer Street from West
Hammer Street           1 stop sign   Grant Street stops       1989-3 7-11-1989
                                      before proceeding across
                                      the intersection
                                      Traffic approaching
                                      South Harrison Street
                                      from West Walnut Street
West Walnut Street and  4 stop signs  and traffic approaching  1989-3 7-11-1989
South Harrison Street                 West Walnut Street from
                                      South Harrison Street
                                      stops before proceeding
                                      across the intersection
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP-TRAFFIC.
 
Intersection                 Stop Details                    Ord.   Passed
                             Traffic moving east on Holiday
Holiday Drive, Howard Street Drive stops at the intersection 1983-3 8-2-1983
and Holiday Lane             with Howard Street and Holiday
                             Land before proceeding
                             Traffic moving in a southerly
Hunt Street and East Hall    direction on Hunt Street stops  1983-3 8-2-1983
Street                       at the intersection with East
                             Hall Street before proceeding
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY ALLEY.
 
Alley Location                    One-way Details               Ord.   Passed
Between Meridian Street and Green One-way going north from Main 1985-3 5-7-1985
Street                            Street to Grant Street
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. RECREATIONAL AND TOY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Snowmobiles.
      (1)   This division (A) incorporates the provisions of I.C. 14-16-1 et
seq. by reference as the same may be in effect and amended from time to time.
      (2)   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon a public street or right-
of-way thereof within one block south or north from the point where Meridian
Street intersects with Main Street.
      (3)   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon SR 213 from the point
where SR 213 intersects with U.S. 35 within the town limits.
      (4)   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon U.S. 35, commonly known
as Main Street, nor upon the right-of-way thereof.
      (5)   No person shall operate a snowmobile:
         (a)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having
due regard for the conditions then existing; or
         (b)   In no event, at a rate of speed greater than the posted speed
limit for other vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Toy vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall ride or operate any bicycles, skateboards, roller
skates, in-line skates or scooters upon a sidewalk within the following streets
in the town:
         (a)   One block north of the intersection of Main Street and Meridian
Street to Grant Street; or
         (b)   One-half block east, west or south of the intersection of Main
Street and Meridian Street.
      (2)   Where named vehicles or devices are permitted to be operated upon
sidewalks, the operator of the vehicle or device shall yield the right-of-way
to any pedestrians.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Toy vehicle violations. Toy vehicle violations shall be subject to
a maximum fine of $50.
         (a)   First offense. Upon the first violation hereof, the bicycle,
skateboard, roller skates, in-line skates or scooter of the offending party who
was riding or otherwise operating the same shall be confiscated by the Town
Marshal or his or her deputies and held by the Town Marshal for a period of
five days. After said time, said item shall be returned to such party or to the
parent or guardian of a juvenile party.
         (b)   Second offense. Upon the second violation hereof, the bicycle,
skateboard, roller skates, in-line skates or scooter of the offending party who
was riding or otherwise operating the same shall be confiscated by the Town
Marshal or his or her deputies and held by the Town Marshal for a period of
five days, and the offending party shall be fined in an amount not to exceed
$25. After said time, said item shall be returned to such party or to the
parent or guardian of a juvenile party.
         (c)   Subsequent offenses. Upon all subsequent violations hereof, the
bicycle, skateboard, roller skates, in-line skates or scooter of the offending
party who was riding or otherwise operating the same shall be confiscated by
the Town Marshal or his or her deputies and held by the Town Marshal for a
period of 30 days, and the offending party shall be fined an amount not to
exceed $50. After said time, said item shall be returned to such party or to
the parent or guardian of a juvenile party.
(Ord. 1979-5, passed 8-7-1979; Ord. 2001-2, passed 6-5-2001)
SCHEDULE V. COMMERCIAL TRUCK OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator or driver
of any truck with more than two axles (including the truck-tractor of a
semitrailer), bus, truck-tractor, recreational vehicle, semitrailer or for the
person in charge of any of the aforementioned vehicles to operate or park any
such vehicle on any portion of Grant Street or Walnut Street.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Shall have the same definition as set out in I.C.
9-13-2-150(a).
      SEMITRAILER. Shall have the same definition as set out in I.C. 9-13-2-164
(a).
      TRUCK. Shall have the same definition as set out in I.C. 9-13-2-188(a).
The term shall not include a pickup truck, with or without a camper shell.
      TRUCK TRACTOR. Shall have the same definition as set out in I.C. 9-13-2-
180.
   (C)   Penalty. The fine for a violation of this schedule shall be a fine up
to $250. The fine shall be payable directly to the Town Clerk-Treasurer within
30 days of the date of the issuance. The town may file an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction if the aforementioned fine is not paid in a timely
manner. If legal action is filed to enforce this section, then the offending
party shall be responsible for all court costs and for reasonable attorney fees
for the bringing of the action to collect the fine.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 2-15-2022)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking restrictions
   
II.   Handicapped parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited parking locations.
Location Parking Status Ord. Passed
Location                                        Parking Status Ord.   Passed
Either side of Harrison Street from SR 50 South unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
to Main Street
Either side of Sunflower Court within the cul-  unlawful       2001-4 6-5-2001
de-sac
Either side of the entire length of High School
Road between South Meridian Street and South    unlawful       1996-1 8-6-1996
Harrison Street
East side of Meridian Street between Holiday    unlawful       2022-2 2-15-2022
Drive and Walnut Street
Holiday Drive east of SR 213                    unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
North side of Grant Street from Meridian Street unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
to Carter Street
North side of Grant Street from Meridian Street unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
to Maple Street
North side of Walnut Street from Meridian       unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
Street East to SR 213
South side of Walnut Street between the
intersection of Meridian Street and the alley   unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
which runs parallel to and between Meridian
Street and Howard Street
South side of Walnut Street from Green Street   unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
to Harrison Street
Traveled portion of any street in the town      unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
where there is no curb
West side of Carter Street from Main Street to  unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
North Town limits
West side of Meridian Street from Railroad      unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
Street to North Town limits
West side of North Green Street from Main       unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
Street to Grant Street
West side of South Meridian Street from Walnut  unlawful       1993-1 3-2-1993
Street south to the town limits
 
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates the parking restrictions schedule shall be fined
$50 for the violation. The fine shall be payable directly to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer within 30 days of the date of issuance. Any person who fails to pay
this fine within 30 days of the violation shall be charged an additional $50.
      (2)   The town may file an action in a court of competent jurisdiction if
the aforementioned fine is not paid in a timely manner. If legal action is
filed to enforce this section, then the offending party shall be responsible
for all court costs and for reasonable attorney fees for the bringing of the
action to collect the fine.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-15-2022)
SCHEDULE II. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
 
Handicapped Parking Space Location                          Ord.   Passed
First space north of the alleyway on the east side of North 2004-3 9-7-2004
Meridian Street
Northeast corner of Meridian Street and Main Street         2004-3 9-7-2004
Southwest corner of Meridian Street and Main Street         2004-3 9-7-2004
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
93.   SANITATION
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Application
   
90.04   Sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Provision of brokerage service
   
90.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.08   HUD program housing
   
90.09   Exemptions
   
90.10   Administrative enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided under
the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who claims to have been injured by a
discriminatory housing practice or who believes that such person will be
injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The state’s Civil Rights Commission, created pursuant to I.C.
22-9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act which is unlawful under §§
90.04 through
90.07 or §
90.99 of this chapter or under I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING.
      (1)   Any building, structure or part of a building or structure which is
occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more
families; or
      (2)   Any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure which is occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such FAMILY being further defined in the definition of FAMILIAL STATUS.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment or being regarded as
having such an impairment;
         (c)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42. U.S.C. §§ 1210 et seq.; and
         (d)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include a current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9.5-
2-10(b)), nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a person with a disability (I.C. 22-9-6-1).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, trusts, labor organizations, receivers, legal representatives,
mutual companies, joint-stock companies, unincorporated organizations,
fiduciaries, trustees and trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 90.03 APPLICATION.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
90.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four families living independently of
each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence; or
      (2)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time, provided that the sale of such single- family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in nor have owned or reserved
on his or her behalf the title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from the application of this section only if such house is sold or
rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings or any employee or agent of any such
broker, agent, salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(A)(3) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer said title.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   The person has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   The person has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent in providing sales or rental facilities or services, other than in the
sale of his or her own personal residence, in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   The person is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 90.04 SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
90.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
90.03(B) and
90.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or to cause to be made, printed or
published, any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling which indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of his or her race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling
is not available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact
so available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental of a dwelling or to otherwise
make unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a
handicap of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For the purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person the
full enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of a rental, the
landlord may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a
modification on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to
the condition that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear
excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person the equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide so as to allow for passage
by handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain, as features of
adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing for accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people, commonly cited as ANSI A117.1,
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (A)(8)(c)3.c. above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 4-7-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE- RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin in making available such a
transaction or in the terms or conditions of such a transaction.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or the providing of other
financial assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property from taking into consideration factors
other than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial
status.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 4-7-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, membership in or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility related to the business
of selling and renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or her in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 4-7-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03 through
90.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 4-7-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 HUD PROGRAM HOUSING.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 90.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, including those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion or from giving preference to such persons unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose
from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this division (C), HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons as defined in the state or federal programs;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 90.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and the referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Town Council President.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, because of a lack
of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer enforcement
proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, the town herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of a violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Town
Council President shall refer all such complaints to the Commission as provided
under division (A) above for the purpose of investigation, resolution and
appropriate relief as provided under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities related to housing and urban
development in a manner so as to affirmatively further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the Town Council President and the Commission
to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Town Council President or his or her designee shall provide
information on available remedies to any aggrieved person or complainant
requesting such information.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with, those listed in divisions (A) through (C) below
shall be fined according to local, state and federal law, and shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both, if bodily
injury results and shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or
for life if death results.
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or has been applying for or participating in any service,
organization or facility related to the business of selling or renting
dwellings;
   (B)   Any citizen, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, because he or she
is or has been participating in, or in order to discourage such citizen or any
other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons to participate
in, any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or because he or she has been participating lawfully in
speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to
participate; or
   (C)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons the opportunity or
protection to so participate.
(Ord. 2015-5, passed 4-7-2015)
CHAPTER 91: EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Deposit of fees
   
91.03   Automatic telephone dialing devices
   
91.04   False alarms
Permit for Alarm System Controllers
   
91.15   Required permit
   
91.16   Application and fee
   
91.17   Issuance
   
91.18   Location of permit
   
91.19   Grace period
   
91.20   Change in information
   
91.21   Revocation
Alarm System Businesses
   
91.35   Required registration
   
91.36   Required identification card
   
91.37   Consumer protection
Violations
   
91.50   Violation notification
   
91.51   Appearance of violator
   
91.52   Failure to appear
   
91.53   Acceptance of compromise
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention and Protection, see
Ch. 94
   Health and Safety, see
Ch. 92
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ALARM BUSINESS. Any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity who
in addition to selling alarm systems also leases, maintains, services, repairs,
alters, replaces, moves or installs any alarm system or causes to be sold,
leased, maintained, serviced, repaired, altered, replaced, moved or installed
any alarm system in or on any building, structure, facility or grounds.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any device used for detecting a fire in or an unauthorized
entry into a building, structure or facility or for alerting others of a fire
or the commission of an unlawful act within a building, structure, facility or
grounds which, when activated, causes notification to be made either directly
or indirectly to the town’s Police Department or Volunteer Fire Department. An
ALARM SYSTEM shall not include:
      (1)   An alarm installed on a motor vehicle;
      (2)   An alarm system designed so that no notification is given to the
Police Department or Volunteer Fire Department until after the occupant, an
agent of the owner or lessee or an agent of an alarm system business has
checked the alarm site and determined that the alarm was the result of a fire
or criminal activity of the kind for which the alarm system was designed to
give notice; or
      (3)   An alarm installed upon premises occupied by the United States, the
state or any political subdivision thereof.
   AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING DEVICE. Any device connected to an alarm system
which automatically sends a prerecorded message or coded signal to a fire or
law enforcement agency indicating the activation of the alarm system.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm eliciting a Police Department or Fire Department
response when the situation does not warrant a response. For the purposes of
this chapter, a FALSE ALARM does not include alarms triggered by severe
atmospheric conditions or other circumstances not reasonably under the control
of the alarm user, installer or maintainer.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The individual, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity to whom an alarm system permit is issued.
   RESPONSE. An alarm which precipitates the arrival of a police officer or
volunteer firefighter at the alarm site.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.02 DEPOSIT OF FEES.
   All sums generated by reason of the terms of this chapter shall be deposited
in the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.03 AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any automatic
telephone dialing device or attachment which automatically selects any
telephone line leading into the communication center of the town’s Police
Department or Volunteer Fire Department and then transmits any prerecorded
message or signal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell or install any automatic telephone
dialing device which automatically selects any telephone line leading into the
communication center of the town’s Police Department or Volunteer Fire
Department and then transmits any prerecorded message or signal.
   (C)   Any person operating or using an automatic telephone dialing device at
the time this chapter became effective shall have had 60 days to comply with
the requirements of this section.
   (D)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to the penalties
set out in §
91.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person who controls property on which an alarm
system is installed to issue, cause to be issued or allow or permit the
issuance of a false alarm.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
PERMIT FOR ALARM SYSTEM CONTROLLERS
§ 91.15 REQUIRED PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person in control of property to operate,
cause to be operated or permit the operation of an alarm system on said
property unless a current permit has been obtained from the Town Marshal.
Failure to secure a permit within 48 hours of installation will constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   A person or legal entity having control of an alarm system at the time
this chapter became effective shall have had 30 days to obtain a permit as set
out herein.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Application for a permit for the operation of an alarm system shall be
made by a person or legal entity having control over the property on which the
alarm system is to be installed and operated.
   (B)   The application shall be made in writing to the Town Marshal on a form
designated by the town for that purpose. The application shall include the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of each person in control of
the property;
      (2)   The street address of the property on which the alarm system is to
be installed and operated;
      (3)   Any business name used for the premises on which the alarm system
is to be installed and operated;
      (4)   Whether the alarm system or systems are or are not local alarms and
whether the alarm system or systems are designed to give notice of a burglary,
hold-up or other type of emergency;
      (5)   The name of the person, or of the alarm system business, who will
install the alarm system; and
      (6)   The name and telephone number of two persons, or of an alarm system
business, who are able to and have agreed:
         (a)   To receive notification at any time;
         (b)   To come to the alarm site within 30 minutes after receiving a
request from the town’s Police Department or Volunteer Fire Department to do
so; and
         (c)   To grant access to the alarm site and to deactivate the system
if it becomes necessary.
   (C)   The fee for an alarm system permit will be $10 for a residential
property and $25 for a commercial property.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.17 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall issue an alarm system permit to the person or
other legal entity in control of the property upon the submission of an
application therefor in accordance with this section unless the Town Marshal
finds that any statement made in the application was incomplete or false.
   (B)   A permit issued pursuant to this section shall be personal to the
permit holder and is not transferable. Should the property on which an alarm
system is located change ownership or should the entity in control of the
property change, then a new application for a permit must be made.
   (C)   Immediately after receipt of the application for a permit and payment
of the permit fee, the Town Marshal shall forward the fee and a copy of the
application to the Clerk-Treasurer and to the Volunteer Fire Department. All
departments shall archive a copy of the application for their records and shall
protect all information on the application as confidential to the extent
permitted by state law. However, nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use
of such information for legitimate law-enforcement purposes or for the
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.18 LOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The permit holder for an alarm system shall keep the permit at the alarm
site in a location which is visible to any law enforcement official who
responds to an alarm.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.19 GRACE PERIOD.
   A grace period of 45 days from the date of the granting of the alarm system
permit shall be given to the permit holder. The purpose of this period is to
allow the permit holder time to correct technical malfunctions in a newly-
installed alarm system. Any citations issued during the grace period granted
herein pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall not be counted as violations
for the purpose of §
91.99 of this chapter and shall not be considered in determining the total
number of violations in a permit year as set out in §
91.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.20 CHANGE IN INFORMATION.
   The permit holder shall promptly notify the Town Marshal in writing of any
change in the information contained in the permit application.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.21 REVOCATION.
   A permit issued pursuant to this chapter may, after the required hearing, be
suspended or revoked by the Town Council for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or an incorrect statement contained in the
application for a permit or made in carrying out the permitted activity;
   (B)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor;
   (C)   Conducting such permitted activity in such a manner so as to
constitute, on recommendation of the appropriate official, a breach of the
peace, a menace to the health, safety or welfare of the public or a disturbance
of the peace or comfort of residents of the town;
   (D)   Expiration or cancellation of any required bond or insurance;
   (E)   Actions unauthorized or beyond the scope of the permit granted;
   (F)   Violation of any regulation or provision of this code applicable to
the activity for which the permit has been granted or of any regulation or law
of the state so applicable; or
   (G)   Failure to continuously comply with all conditions required as
precedent to approval of the permit.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
ALARM SYSTEM BUSINESSES
§ 91.35 REQUIRED REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to doing business within the town, an alarm system business
shall register at the Utility Office on a form designated by the town for that
purpose. The fee for registration shall be $50. On the form, the business shall
set forth:
      (1)   The full name and address of the alarm system business;
      (2)   The full name, business address and home address of the manager;
      (3)   A telephone number at which the town’s Police Department or
Volunteer Fire Department can notify personnel of the business of a need for
assistance at any time; and
      (4)   The names, addresses and dates of birth of all alarm agents
employed by the alarm system business.
   (B)   All alarm system business applicants shall present a certificate of
insurance to the Clerk- Treasurer showing liability insurance in the amount of
not less than $100/$300,000.
   (C)   An alarm system business doing business at the time this subchapter
became effective shall have had 30 days to register as required.
   (D)   An alarm system business shall promptly notify the Clerk-Treasurer in
writing of any change in the information contained in the registration form.
   (E)   The registration of an alarm system business shall be valid from the
date of issuance unless the alarm system business’s registration is revoked
pursuant to the conditions and procedure established in §
91.21 of this chapter.
   (F)   An alarm system business’s registration shall be personal to the
holder and is not transferable.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.36 REQUIRED IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   Every agent of an alarm system business, while engaged in alarm system
business, shall carry an identification card on his or her person at all times,
which shall be displayed to any law enforcement officer upon request.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.37 CONSUMER PROTECTION.
   It shall be the obligation of businesses selling alarm systems and doing
business within the town to inform customers at the point of sale that local
ordinance requires anyone in control of an alarm system, as defined by this
chapter, to obtain a permit for the system. It shall be a violation of this
chapter for an alarm system business or its agents and employees to knowingly
and willfully withhold this information from a customer.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
VIOLATIONS
§ 91.50 VIOLATION NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer, volunteer firefighter or other authorized
person of the town shall find that the owner or operator of any alarm system
has committed any of the acts which have been declared unlawful by any
provision of this chapter, the officer, volunteer firefighter or other
authorized person shall give notice to said owner or operator of the violation
in the manner directed in divisions (B) through (E) below.
   (B)   A police officer, volunteer firefighter or other authorized person of
the town shall notify the owner or operator of an alarm system or his or her
representative of any violation subject to this chapter by presenting the
person found in possession of or in charge of the alarm system with a written
notice. If the officer, volunteer firefighter or other authorized person shall
not find any person in possession or in charge of the premises, or if the
person is a child or incapable of receiving the notice, then the officer or
volunteer firefighter shall notify the owner or operator thereof by posting or
attaching a written notice of the violation in a conspicuous place upon the
premises, and the person shall be bound thereby.
   (C)   All notices of violations as required by this section shall be
executed in triplicate by a police officer, volunteer firefighter or other
authorized person of the town. One copy shall be served upon the violator, one
copy shall be filed by the officer, volunteer firefighter or other authorized
person with the town and one copy shall be filed in the office of the Town
Attorney. The latter two copies shall be filed by the respective officer,
volunteer firefighter or other authorized person at his or her earliest
opportunity before or when he or she goes off duty for the particular day on
which the notice was served on the violator.
   (D)   All notices provided for in this section shall be numbered and shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The specific violation with which the violator is charged;
      (2)   The name and address of the person who controls the property on
which the alarm system is installed;
      (3)   The location of the violation;
      (4)   The signature of the officer, volunteer firefighter or other
authorized person;
      (5)   The badge number, if any, of the officer; and
      (6)   The date of the violation.
   (E)   The copy of the notice served upon the violator, his or her
representative or the owner of the premises shall also state that the violator
or the other person, after the first false alarm in the calendar year of
permit, shall appear in person or by attorney or agent at the office of the
Town Hall at 112 North Meridian Street, Greentown, Indiana, within five days of
the date of the violation appearing upon the notice. The violator so appearing
shall have the privileges accorded by law. However, if the period of five days
shall expire upon a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the period of time in which
the violator must appear shall be extended an additional 24 hours.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.51 APPEARANCE OF VIOLATOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person who receives a notice of violation
served pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to appear in person or by
attorney or agent at Town Hall, located at 112 North Meridian Street,
Greentown, Indiana, if he or she desires to take advantage of the privilege of
comprising the offense.
   (B)   Any person who has received a notice and who has been found guilty of
an alarm violation may appear in person, or by attorney or agent, at the Town
Hall during the period of time allowed pursuant to the notice served under this
chapter and admit liability for the offense charged in the notice and tender
payment of the penalty, if any, specified in §
91.99, together with any costs required by law.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.52 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   Upon failure or refusal of any person receiving notice of any
violation under this chapter to appear as provided in this chapter and report
to Town Hall within the time frame set out herein, the following may occur.
      (1)   For violations by homeowners, a non-appearance shall result in an
admission of the violation and will be duly noted in the town’s records.
      (2)   For an alarm system business, a local business with an alarm system
or a homeowner with more than four violations in any calendar year, the Town
Attorney may proceed to file suit for violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the violator shall thereupon be brought
in the manner provided by statute or as hereafter may be provided and, upon
conviction of the offense charged and in lieu of the sums prescribed by any
compromise, the penalties in §
91.99(A) may be assessed for each offense together with the costs as provided
by statute.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.53 ACCEPTANCE OF COMPROMISE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer or the Town Council are authorized and empowered to
accept on behalf of the town any offer of compromise of any violator when the
required amount of the penalty is properly tendered pursuant to this chapter.
The acceptance on behalf of the town shall be effected by issuing to or for the
violator a receipt signed by the person acting therefor acknowledging payment
of the proper sum, which payment and receipt shall constitute a complete
satisfaction for the violation.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   The penalties for a violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be as
follows:
   (A)   For local businesses with an alarm system:
      (1)   For the first citation issued in any one permit year for a false
alarm or the operation of an illegal telephone dialing device, no fine shall be
charged but a record of the violation shall be made;
      (2)   Upon a second violation within one permit year for a false alarm or
the operation of an illegal telephone dialing device, a fine of $50 shall be
imposed;
      (3)   Upon a third violation within one permit year for a false alarm or
the operation of an illegal telephone dialing device, a fine of $75 shall be
imposed; and
      (4)   Upon a fourth violation, and upon each and every violation
thereafter, in any one certificate year, a fine of $100 shall be imposed for
false alarms or the operation of an illegal telephone dialing device.
   (B)   For homeowners:
      (1)   For the first, second, third and fourth citation issued in any one
certificate year for a false alarm or the operation of an illegal telephone
dialing device, no fine shall be charged but a record of the violation shall be
made;
      (2)   Upon a fifth violation within one certificate year for a false
alarm or the operation of an illegal telephone dialing device, a fine of $50
shall be imposed;
      (3)   Upon a sixth violation within one certificate year for a false
alarm or the operation of an illegal telephone dialing device, a fine of $75
shall be imposed; and
      (4)   Upon a seventh violation, and upon each and every violation
thereafter, in any one certificate year, a fine of $100 shall be imposed for
false alarms or the operation of an illegal telephone dialing device.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties set out in divisions (A) and (B) above,
it shall be a separate violation to operate in the town any alarm system
without a permit. Upon the first citation, no fine will be made. A second
citation shall result in a fine of $100. For a third citation, and for each
citation thereafter, the fine shall be $200.
   (D)   An alarm business shall be fined $200 for a failure to comply with the
provisions of §
91.35 of this chapter regarding required registration.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 11-1-2005)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
Animals
   
92.15   Prohibitions and requirements
   
92.16   Enforcement authority
   
92.17   Powers of enforcement officers
   
92.18   Apprehension and impounding
   
92.19   Notice to owner
   
92.20   Redemption and disposition of impounded animals
   
92.21   Disposition of collected monies
Public Nuisances
   
92.35   Prohibition
   
92.36   Nuisance conditions
   
92.37   Powers of enforcement authority
   
92.38   Abatement notice procedures
   
92.39   Abatement notice requirement exception
   
92.40   Dispute hearings
   
92.41   Abatement notice compliance
   
92.42   Abatement notice noncompliance
   
92.43   Abatement by town
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Alarm Systems, see
Ch. 91
   Fire Prevention and Protection, see
Ch. 94
   Sanitation, see
Ch. 93
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live, non-human vertebrate creature, whether domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by the Department of Animal Services
or a municipal agency, or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding
or caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
   AT LARGE. Any place elsewhere than on the owner’s premises and not
restrained by a leash or not under the immediate and complete control of a
person capable of controlling such animal.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. Any law enforcement officer or authorized employee of the
Department of Animal Services.
   CAT. All domestic members of the feline family of animals.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog which, according to the records of the Department of
Animal Services or the town:
      (1)   Has aggressively bitten, attacked or endangered, or has inflicted
severe injury or death on, a human being on public or private property;
      (2)   Has been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting
or is a dog trained for dog fighting; or
      (3)   Has been listed as a potentially- dangerous dog by the Department
of Animal Services and exhibits behavior warranting listing as a dangerous dog.
   DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL SERVICES. The Animal Care and Control Department of the
Kokomo Humane Society.
   DOG. All domestic members of the canine family of animals.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The President of the Town Council and the agents or
appointed representatives of the Town Council including, but not limited to,
the Police Department and its duly- appointed officers.
   HARBOR. The actions of any person who permits any animal to habitually
remain, lodge or be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard or place
of business or on any premises on which such person resides or controls. An
animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for three days.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The county’s Health Department.
   KENNEL. A facility operated principally for the purpose of boarding,
housing, grooming, breeding or training dogs or cats. The facility must be
located a minimum of 1,000 feet from the closest dwelling.
   LESS-SEVERE INJURY. Any injury made with the teeth, fangs or claws of any
animal which results in a minor puncture, piercing or breaking of the skin and
does not require extensive medical treatment.
   LITTER. Includes any human-made or human- used waste which, if deposited
within the town otherwise than in a litter receptacle, tends to create a danger
to the public health, safety and welfare or tends to impair the environment or
aesthetic well- being of the community. LITTER shall include, but not be
limited to, garbage, trash, refuse, debris, grass clippings or other lawn or
garden waste, paper products, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers, motor
vehicle parts, furniture, appliances, carcasses of dead animals or other waste
material of an unsightly, unsanitary, nauseous or offensive nature.
   NUISANCE. Defined as set out at I.C. 32-30-6-6, to wit: whatever is
injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the senses or an obstruction to the
free use of property so as essentially to interfere with the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property.
   OBSTRUCTIONS. No person, corporation or sole proprietorship shall obstruct,
endanger or permit anything to obstruct or endanger the free passage or proper
use by the public of any street, sidewalk, alley or public place except as may
be permitted by this code; however, goods, wares and merchandise may be placed
on sidewalks for such reasonable time as may be necessary for loading and
unloading them if they are removed within 24 hours.
   OF RECORD. Recorded in the records of the county’s Recorder or in the
records of the county’s Auditor.
   OWNER. Any person or persons owning or having the care, custody or control
of any animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation.
   POTENTIALLY-DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog which engages, unprovoked, in any behavior that requires a
defensive action by any person to prevent bodily injury when the person and the
dog are off of the property of the dog’s owner or keeper;
      (2)   Any dog which bites a person unprovoked, causing a less-severe
injury as defined;
      (3)   Any dog which chases or menaces a person;
      (4)   Any dog which runs at large; or
      (5)   Any dog which, unprovoked, has killed, seriously bitten, inflicted
injury on or otherwise caused injury to a domestic animal by attacking when off
of the property of the owner or keeper of the dog.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land upon which is located one or more buildings or other structures
designated or used for residential, commercial, business, industrial,
institutional or religious purposes, together with any yard, grounds, walks,
driveways, fences, porches or other structures or improvements appurtenant to
the land, except for any public place.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any animal, or animals, that:
         (a)   Attacks passers-by or passing vehicles;
         (b)   Damages public or private property;
         (c)   Is not confined while in estrus, or “heat”;
         (d)   Barks, whines or howls in an excessive or continuous fashion,
unreasonable under the circumstances, so as to violate the peace and quiet of
the neighborhood; or
         (e)   Does not have a permanent means of identification as provided
for in this chapter.
      (2)   It shall also be a PUBLIC NUISANCE to harbor more than four dogs or
cats over the age of four months unless classified as a kennel.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, curbs, gutters or sidewalks and all
public parks, lakes, spaces, publicly-owned rights-of-way, grounds or buildings
which are within the corporate limits of the town or owned by the town.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by its owner by leash or by confining
it within the real property limits.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE.
      (1)   Where a dog or cat is securely and humanely confined on the owner’s
property within a house, building, locked pen or other enclosure which is
designed to prevent the potentially-dangerous dog from escaping over, under or
through the enclosure, known as the PRIMARY ENCLOSURE.
      (2)   If the dog is maintained outside, a portion of the owner’s property
must be fenced with a secured perimeter fence of sufficient height and strength
so as to prevent the public from entering and the dog from escaping from the
owner’s property.
   STRAY. Any animal which does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property which may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a present possessory
interest or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
   TOWN. The Town of Greentown, Indiana, and all areas within the municipal
boundaries of said town as of the date of this chapter’s passage and as
thereafter amended or changed by annexation.
   WILD ANIMALS. Any non-domesticated animal and any domesticated animal
including, but not limited to, horses, cattle, pigs, chickens and roosters,
with the exception of small, non-poisonous aquatic or amphibious animals, small
caged birds, domesticated cats and domesticated dogs.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011; Ord. 2016-9, passed 9-20-2016)
ANIMALS
§ 92.15 PROHIBITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The following prohibitions and penalties shall apply and be enforceable in
the town.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, molest or interfere
with any authorized official in the performance of any duty described in this
subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow, suffer or permit an
animal to be at large within the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit said animal
to be a public nuisance within the town. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for
any owner of any animal to recklessly or carelessly fail to exercise care and
control over said animal in such a way that the animal is a public nuisance.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor a dangerous
dog or wild animal within the town except for during limited special events of
a limited duration including, but not limited to, the town’s 4-H fair and other
fairground events, provided that this section shall not apply to animals under
the control of a law enforcement or military agency. For the purposes of this
subchapter, an animal may be declared dangerous by the Department of Animal
Services.
   (E)   Any potentially-dangerous dog found at large or not confined as
required by this subchapter may be captured and impounded and shall be returned
to its owner only if the enforcement authority, in its discretion, determines
that such return will not result in further or ongoing violations of this
subchapter. If such determination cannot be made or if the dog’s actions have
caused serious injury, then the enforcement officer shall apply to a court of
competent jurisdiction for an order to dispose of the animal.
   (F)   Every person responsible for a potentially- dangerous dog shall:
      (1)   Obtain and maintain a secure enclosure in which to confine the dog;
said person must have posted on the premises at each entry point a clearly-
visible warning sign which reads “Beware of Dog” in letters not less than two
inches high to inform both children and adults of the presence of a dangerous
dog on the property;
      (2)   In order to protect the public and to afford relief from the severe
harm and injury which is likely to result from a dog attack, the owner of a
dangerous dog shall obtain and maintain insurance in the minimum amount of
$50,000 to provide for insurance against a liability for damages to persons and
property caused by the dangerous dog. Insurance shall be provided by an
insurance company authorized to do business in the state, and the owner shall
file a certificate of insurance with the Department of Animal Services;
      (3)   A potentially-dangerous dog must not be outside a proper enclosure
unless the dog is muzzled, securely restrained by a leash of not more than six
feet in length and under the control of the owner or a competent custodian 18
years of age or older. The muzzle must be made in a manner which will not cause
injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration but which will
prevent it from biting any human or animal. The owner may exercise the dog
outside of its primary enclosure without a muzzle or leash only if the dog
remains on the owner’s property within the secured perimeter fence and only if
the dog remains within the owner’s sight and control at all times, and only
members of the owner’s immediate household or persons 18 years of age or older
are allowed within the perimeter fence while the dog is present. When being
transported, such dog must be safely and securely restrained within a vehicle;
      (4)   No potentially-dangerous dog shall be chained, tethered or
otherwise tied to any inanimate object such as a tree, post or building which
is outside of its proper enclosure while unattended by the owner or a competent
custodian;
      (5)   The owner of a potentially-dangerous animal shall consent to
periodic inspections by the Department of Animal Services;
      (6)   The owner of any potentially-dangerous dog shall have such dog
permanently identified, at the owner’s expense, by means of a microchip, and
the owner of any potentially-dangerous dog shall provide the Department of
Animal Services with a color photograph of the dog taken within the last 12
months which is suitable for use in identifying the dog; and
      (7)   Any potentially-dangerous dog which has escaped from its fenced
enclosure may be impounded by the Department of Animal Services whether or not
it has been returned to its enclosure at the time of impoundment. If impounded
pursuant to this division (F), the animal shall not be returned to a person
responsible for it.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Department of Animal Services shall be primarily responsible for the
enforcement of this subchapter. Additional enforcement shall be through
proceedings brought by the Town Attorney for the town pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-
3 and the related statutes referred to therein.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 92.17 POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   Any authorized agent of the town is given the authority to:
   (A)   Kill any dangerous or potentially-dangerous dog found at large within
the town which cannot be safely captured and impounded by ordinary means,
except that every reasonable effort shall be made to avoid killing an animal
which has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a person or which appears to
have rabies. If the killing of the animal cannot reasonably be avoided, then
said authorized agent shall attempt to kill the animal in such a manner so as
to preserve the head thereof intact;
   (B)   Enter upon the land in the town when in pursuit of any animal which
said agent has reasonable cause to believe is in violation of this subchapter,
except that such agent is not authorized to enter any building without the
consent of the occupant;
   (C)   Issue citations for any alleged violation of this subchapter even if
not personally observed by the agent; and
   (D)   Do all things necessary to effectuate the enforcement of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 92.18 APPREHENSION AND IMPOUNDING.
   It is the duty of persons and agencies so authorized by the town to
apprehend and impound:
   (A)   Any dog or cat at large, or any dog or cat deemed a public nuisance;
   (B)   Any dog not wearing a proper registration tag;
   (C)   Any dog or cat not wearing a proper rabies vaccination tag;
   (D)   Any animal which has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a person,
or any animal which appears to have rabies;
   (E)   Any dangerous dog; or
   (F)   Any potentially-dangerous dog outside of its secure structure.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 92.19 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Not later than three days after the impoundment of a dog which was
wearing an identification or registration tag at the time of its impoundment,
the caretaker shall notify the owner advising of the impoundment of the dog.
   (B)   If the owner fails to redeem said dog within five days after notice by
mail, phone or electronic mail, then the owner loses ownership of the dog and
it may be destroyed or its possession given to the Department of Animal
Services.
   (C)   This notice provision shall apply to any animal impounded under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 92.20 REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any healthy dog or cat apprehended or impounded may be redeemed by the
owner or other persons as authorized in §
92.19 of this chapter within five days of such apprehension upon showing that
the dog has a current registration tag and the dog or cat has a current rabies
vaccination tag, and upon the payment of the following fees:
      (1)   If the dog or cat has been apprehended by an agent of the town, the
fee set forth annually by the Department of Animal Services; and
      (2)   A reasonable fee for room and board for each day or fraction
thereof during which the dog or cat was impounded.
   (B)   After five days, the dog or cat may be destroyed or its possession
given to the Department of Animal Services.
   (C)   Divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) and (B) above shall apply to any animal
impounded under this subchapter.
   (D)   Any animal impounded, for any reason, which appears to any duly-
licensed veterinarian to have any infectious or contagious disease other than
rabies may be destroyed forthwith.
   (E)   Any person bitten by an animal must report the incident to the
county’s Health Department.
   (F)   Any dog or cat apprehended and impounded for having bitten a person,
being suspected of having bitten a person or appearing to have rabies shall be
assessed by the Department of Animal Services to determine whether the bite
constitutes the dog being dangerous or potentially dangerous. If so assessed,
then the provisions of this subchapter related to those dogs shall supersede
this section. Otherwise, the dog or cat shall be kept under observation at the
Department of Animal Services for a minimum of ten days unless such dog or cat
shall sooner die. At the expiration of said ten-day period, the animal may be
redeemed by the owner or other persons as provided in §
92.19 of this chapter upon showing that the dog has a current registration tag,
showing that the animal has a rabies vaccination tag and payment of the fees as
set forth in division (A) above, provided, however, that home quarantine of an
owned animal may be allowed by the county’s Health Department.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 92.21 DISPOSITION OF COLLECTED MONIES.
   All monies or fines collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be paid to
the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.35 PROHIBITION.
   No citizen, corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship, any owner,
occupant or tenant or any person having a substantial property interest in any
real or personal property within the town limits, or any agent thereof, shall
maintain, create, cause, place, deposit, leave or permit a nuisance to remain
on property within the town, whether public or private.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.36 NUISANCE CONDITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following list includes, but is not
limited to, conditions which may constitute a nuisance:
   (A)   Litter;
   (B)   Accumulations of weeds, rubbish, trash, refuse, junk or other
abandoned materials, metals and lumber;
   (C)   Fallen trees, stumps, dead trees, cut brush and fallen or cut limbs,
except for stacked firewood;
   (D)   Boxes, appliances, household items and tires;
   (E)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly-covered holes, whether lined
or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property within the
town, unless the dirt will be utilized in the future on the property in
question;
   (F)   Automobile parts, unlicensed or inoperable vehicles, disassembled
automobiles, automobiles without engines, plumbing and piping materials and
parts, scrap metal, unseaworthy or dilapidated boats and dilapidated,
deteriorated or non-operable jet skis, snowmobiles, bicycles, trailers, or
mopeds, and boats or operable trailers parked in public right-of-ways for more
than 24 consecutive hours;
   (G)   Demolition remains;
   (H)   Structures defaced with paint, graffiti or wording;
   (I)   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, rubbish, animal waste or human
excrement which is deposited or allowed or caused to be upon any public or
private property;
   (J)   Any water or any other substance which is caused or permitted to flow
onto or to be deposited upon any private or public way, except for natural
surface water drainage;
   (K)   The erection of dams or any other obstruction by a private party which
prevents the natural flow of water and causes it to collect and pool upon any
public property;
   (L)   Accumulations of stagnant water;
   (M)   Any real or personal property used as a place of residence or
habitation or for sleeping which is maintained in such a way so as to be
dangerous or detrimental to life or health due to a lack of or defects in
water, drainage, heat, electricity, plumbing, ventilation or garbage and trash
removal;
   (N)   The storage of any explosive, combustible or other material which
creates a safety or health hazard;
   (O)   Trees, shrubbery, weeds or other matter which obstructs public ways or
causes visual barriers that create vehicular traffic or pedestrian safety
hazards;
   (P)   The placing or accumulating on or within any real or personal
property, or the permitting of the same, of any matter which attracts rodents,
insects or domestic or wild animals in such a manner so as to create a health
hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition;
   (Q)   Any real or personal property infested with insects, rats, vermin or
wild or domestic animals to a degree which prevents the reasonable use and
enjoyment of adjoining and surrounding properties;
   (R)   Any dead animals or animal parts;
   (S)   Any real or personal property which is infected with a contagious
disease or is likely to cause an immediate health hazard;
   (T)   Basketball goals or other privately- owned structures erected in or
infringing upon any public place or right-of-way which are deemed to create a
safety hazard to the public;
   (U)   Any furniture not originally designed or manufactured solely for
outdoor use or furniture which was originally designed or manufactured for
outdoor use which is now dilapidated or deteriorated;
   (V)   Trash or garbage strewn upon the ground in the vicinity of trash or
garbage containers unless enclosed in containers or bags as authorized by this
code on regular collection days; and
   (W)   Trash or garbage containers left upon the sidewalk, the area between a
street and a sidewalk, the front or side yard or any public place except as
permitted by this code for trash and garbage collection purposes on regular
collection days.
      (1)   This is provided that in those cases where it is demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the enforcement authority that there is no physical
possibility of locating trash containers at a site other than in one of the
locations prohibited under this division (W), the enforcement authority is
authorized to issue a written variance from this division (W) upon such terms
and conditions as the enforcement authority deems appropriate.
      (2)   Such variance may not allow for permanent placement of such
containers on a public place. Records shall be maintained of all such variances
issued and the reasons justifying the issuance thereof.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011; Ord. 2024-1, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 92.37 POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   It is made the duty of the members of the Town Council and the town’s
employees to report the existence of nuisances to the enforcement authority.
The enforcement authority or its representative shall be authorized to visit
and enter into or upon the buildings, lots, grounds or premises within the
limits of the town for the purpose of ascertaining and discovering any
nuisances to make examination thereof.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 92.38 ABATEMENT NOTICE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Abatement notice. Where, upon inspection, reasonable cause is found to
believe that a nuisance exists, the enforcement authority shall issue a written
abatement notice.
   (B)   Recipient of notice. Abatement notices shall be served upon any
citizen, corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship who allegedly created
the nuisance or upon all known holders of substantial property interests in the
real estate upon which the nuisance is alleged to exist. If the resident or
occupant of the premises is not the owner of record of the real estate, then
the enforcement authority is authorized to serve the owner of record as shown
in the records of the county’s Auditor in addition to other known holders of
substantial property interests, including the resident or occupant.
   (C)   Content of notice. The abatement notice must contain:
      (1)   The name of the person, corporation, partnership or sole
proprietorship to whom the order is issued;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the real estate where the
nuisance which is the subject of the notice is located, if applicable;
      (3)   The action that the notice requires. The ordered action must be
reasonably related to abating the conditions constituting the nuisance;
      (4)   The period of time within which the ordered action is required to
be accomplished, measured from the time when the abatement notice is served.
The time allowed must allow a sufficient time to accomplish the required action
of at least 48 hours from the time the abatement notice is served. If the
notice allows more than 30 days to accomplish the action, then the notice may
require that a substantial beginning be made in accomplishing the action within
the initial 30-day period following service of the notice;
      (5)   A statement that the order becomes final ten calendar days after
the notice is served unless a hearing is requested in writing by the citizen,
corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, tenant or occupant, or by a
person holding a substantial property interest in the private premises upon
which the nuisance is alleged to exist. The request for a hearing must be
served upon the enforcement authority prior to the expiration of the
aforementioned ten calendar-day period;
      (6)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the town
if there is noncompliance with the orders contained in the abatement notice;
and
      (7)   The name, business address and business telephone number of the
enforcement authority.
   (D)   Manner of giving notice. The service of abatement notices shall be
made by any of the following means:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail to the
business address of the corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship or to
the residence or place of business or employment of the person to be notified,
return receipt requested;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the notice personally to the person,
corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship to be notified;
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the notice at the business address of the
corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship or at the dwelling or usual
place of abode of the person to be notified;
      (4)   Posting a copy of the notice in a prominent place upon the premises
where the nuisance is located; or
      (5)   If, after a reasonable effort, service cannot be obtained by any of
the means described in divisions (D)(1) through (D)(4) above, then service may
be made by publishing the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county in which the property subject to the notice is located. Such publication
shall be made one time.
   (E)   Effective date of notice. The date when notice is considered given is
as follows.
      (1)   If the notice is delivered personally or left at the business
office, dwelling or usual place of abode, then notice is considered given on
the day on which the order or statement is delivered to the corporation,
partnership or sole proprietorship or left at the person’s dwelling or usual
place of abode.
      (2)   If the notice is mailed, then notice is considered given on the
date shown on the return receipt or, if no date is shown, on the date when the
return receipt is received by the town’s Utility Office.
      (3)   Notice by publication is considered given on the date of
publication.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 92.39 ABATEMENT NOTICE REQUIREMENT EXCEPTION.
   Where, in the opinion of the enforcement authority, a nuisance exists which
creates a substantial and imminent health or safety hazard requiring immediate
abatement in order to protect health and safety, the enforcement authority,
upon prior approval by the Council President, shall abate the nuisance without
the necessity of issuing an abatement notice as set out in §
92.38 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 92.40 DISPUTE HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, owner,
tenant, occupant or person holding a substantial property interest in a private
premises upon which a nuisance is alleged to exist who disputes the existence
of a nuisance or who disputes the nature of the abatement action ordered in the
abatement notice may, within ten calendar days of service of the abatement
notice, serve upon the enforcement authority a written request for a hearing.
The written request does not need to be in any particular form, but it shall
clearly indicate that a hearing is requested and shall set out the nature of
the disagreement with the content of the abatement notice.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the written request for a hearing, the enforcement
authority shall place the matter before the Town Council.
   (C)   The enforcement authority shall give written notice to the party
requesting the hearing of the date and time of the hearing. Such notice shall
be given not less than five calendar days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
   (D)   At the hearing, which may be adjourned from time to time, it shall be
the town’s burden to go forward with evidence sufficient to demonstrate that a
nuisance exists and that the actions required are reasonably calculated so as
to abate the nuisance within a reasonable period of time. The party requesting
the hearing shall have the right to dispute the existence of the nuisance, the
reasonableness of the remedy or the reasonableness of the time allowed for
remedial action. The party requesting the hearing may propose alternative
remedies or time periods for the remedial action or alternative remediation
plans.
   (E)   At the hearing, both sides may present witnesses, elicit testimonies,
introduce physical evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses or dispute
evidence submitted by their hearing opponent. Both sides may present oral
arguments. Both sides may be represented by counsel. All such hearings shall be
open to the public pursuant to state statutes on open meetings.
   (F)   Upon the conclusion of the presentation of evidence and oral
arguments, if any, the Council shall deliberate and render a decision either
confirming, amending or rescinding the disputed content of the abatement
notice. The decision of the Council shall be final.
   (G)   All time parameters set out in the abatement notice for the completion
of compliance actions shall be tolled pending the outcome of the Council’s
decision. In cases where the actions of the enforcement authority are upheld or
are upheld as modified by the Council, it shall be the responsibility of the
Council, in its decision, to establish a time period for the completion of
compliance activities held in abeyance during the hearing process.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 92.41 ABATEMENT NOTICE COMPLIANCE.
   It being the intent of this subchapter to promote the abatement of nuisances
within the town, in those instances where the nuisance is abated to the
satisfaction of the enforcement authority as required in the abatement notice,
or as required by the Town Council after hearing, and within the time period
set out in the abatement notice, or within any other extended time period after
the hearing as ordered by the Town Council, no further fines or penalties will
be imposed. The enforcement authority shall make written note of the
compliance, and the enforcement file shall be closed.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 92.42 ABATEMENT NOTICE NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The failure, neglect or refusal by a person, corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship, owner of record or his or her agent, tenant or occupant to
comply with the orders set out in the abatement notice within the time period
set out therein, or within any extended time period agreed to by the
enforcement authority, shall constitute a violation of this subchapter and
shall render the party upon whom the abatement notice was served liable to a
fine as set forth in §
92.99 of this chapter. Each day’s failure, neglect or refusal to abate the
nuisance during the time period allowed for compliance shall constitute a
separate offense under this subchapter. The owner of record of the premises
upon which the nuisance is found to exist and the tenant or occupant may be
held jointly and severally liable for the payment of fines assessed under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.43 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   In addition to the fines imposed under §
92.99 of this chapter, in non-emergency situations where abatement is not
accomplished immediately by the town, the failure, neglect or refusal of any
party to abate a nuisance as required by the abatement notice shall authorize
the enforcement authority to obtain the permission of the Town Council to abate
the nuisance as set out in the abatement notice. Where such permission is
sought, the enforcement authority shall file a copy of the abatement notice
with the county’s Recorder to give constructive notice to subsequent purchasers
that the real estate is subject to the costs associated with the abatement, if
applicable.
   (B)   The work may be accomplished by town employees if the work is within
their capacity to accomplish, or the work may be advertised for public bid and
awarded to the lowest responsible and responsive bidder. An accurate accounting
shall be kept of all costs incurred in abating the nuisance. Upon completion of
the abatement, a statement for costs incurred shall be forwarded to the person,
corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship or owner of record by certified
mail. Should such costs remain unpaid ten calendar days after receipt by the
person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship or owner of record, or
upon return of the certified mail as undeliverable, then appropriate legal
action may be taken to compel payment of the costs incurred. Any judgment for
costs obtained shall be filed as a judgment lien against the real estate upon
which the nuisance was abated, if applicable.
   (C)   As an alternative, where there has been noncompliance with the
abatement notice, the town is also authorized to seek equitable relief in a
court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with the orders set out in
the abatement notice.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
92.15 through
92.21 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than $2,500.
Additionally, upon a third violation of §§
92.15 through
92.21, the animal shall be seized and impounded. If such violation results in a
dog causing serious injury to any person, then the court may, upon request and
after a hearing, order the animal forfeited or destroyed.
   (C)   In addition to any costs imposed under this chapter, any person,
corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, owner, occupant or tenant of
real estate who is found to have violated §§
92.35 through
92.43 of this chapter, or who willfully or negligently failed to comply with
any provision of §§
92.35 through
92.43 of this chapter or with any orders issued hereunder, shall be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day a violation
shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
Citations for violations of §§
92.35 through
92.43 of this chapter may be issued by the enforcement authority or by the Town
Marshal or one of his or her deputies. The Uniform Traffic Citation may be
utilized for the purpose of evidencing a violation of said sections.
Enforcement shall be in effect by the filing of a civil suit seeking judgment
in the amount of the fine imposed plus court costs.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-3-2011)
CHAPTER 93: SANITATION
Section
Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
93.01   Adoption
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Powers of Enforcement Authority
   
93.04   Owner responsibility
   
93.05   Violation conditions
   
93.06   Violation notices
   
93.07   Service of notices and statements
   
93.08   Abatement by town
   
93.09   Appeal process
 
   
93.99   Penalty
WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 93.01 ADOPTION.
   The provisions of I.C. 36-8-2-4 et seq. concerning the enforcement of health
powers are hereby adopted in their entirety and as they may be subsequently
amended, and are made a part hereof by reference to the same as if fully set
out herein.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Town Council shall be the executive department authorized by
this subchapter to administer the provisions of I.C. 36-8-2-4 et seq. and this
subchapter.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The President of the Town Council or his or her
designee.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The person or persons designated as such by the
legislative body of the town under the authority of I.C. 36-8-2-4 et seq. The
HEARING AUTHORITY shall perform those functions specified by state statute.
   OWNER or LANDOWNER. The individual, corporation, partnership or other entity
recorded in the records of the county’s Auditor as the OWNER of record for the
purpose of being responsible for the payment of property taxes upon the real
estate where weeds or rank vegetation are found to exist.
   RANK VEGETATION. Any vegetative growth found growing profusely and
unmanageably in excess of the heigh restrictions herein provided. Agricultural
crops, including hay and pasture, shall not be considered as RANK VEGETATION.
   WEED. Any deleterious, unhealthful or noxious vegetative growth found
growing within the town, or any tree, grass, shrub, flower or vine which, from
an aesthetic or functional viewpoint, is incompatible with the vegetation found
in the vicinity, presents a danger to the public health and safety or creates
by their presence a nuisance to surrounding properties. Agricultural crops,
including hay and pasture, shall not be considered as WEEDS.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 93.03 POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Enforcement Authority. The President of the Town Council or his or her
designee, as the Enforcement Authority, shall be authorized to administer and
to proceed under the provisions of this subchapter in ordering the removal of
any weeds or rank vegetation found to be in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Powers. Wherever in this subchapter or under applicable state statute
it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the
discretion of the Enforcement Authority, this shall be construed to give said
Enforcement Authority only the discretion of determining whether the rules and
standards established by ordinance or statue have been complied with. No such
provisions shall be construed as giving the Enforcement Authority discretionary
powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, the power to require
conditions not prescribed by ordinance or statue or the power to enforce such
provisions in an arbitrary or capricious manner.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 93.04 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   Owners of real property within the town are required to cut and remove weeds
and other rank vegetation growing upon their property. An owner’s
responsibility shall not be extinguished by reason of real property being
occupied by tenants.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-6-2015) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 VIOLATION CONDITIONS.
   A violation of this subchapter shall occur when weeds or rank vegetation in
a given location are found to exist at an average height in excess of six
inches.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-6-2015) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 VIOLATION NOTICES.
   (A)   Should an owner fail to cut and remove such weeds and rank vegetation
or fail to cause such cutting and removal to be accomplished, and should such
weeds and rank vegetation exceed the height restriction set out in §
93.05 of this chapter, then the Enforcement Authority charged with
administering this subchapter shall issue a written notice to the owner
ordering such cutting and removal. Such notice shall be served upon the
landowner by sending such notice to the landowner by certified mail which is
addressed to the owner’s last-known address. The notice shall specify the
vegetation to be removed and shall establish time parameters for completion of
the cutting and removal; in no case shall the time allowed be less than five
days from the date upon which notice is mailed.
   (B)   If the initial notice of a violation of this subchapter was provided
by certified mail or equivalent notice, then the town may also include a
continuous abatement notice posted at the property at the time of abatement
instead of requiring additional notice by certified mailings. A continuous
abatement notice serves as notice to the real property owner that each
subsequent violation during the same year for which the initial notice of
violation was provided may be abated by the town or its contractors.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 93.07 SERVICE OF NOTICES AND STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Should any notice or statement required to be served upon a landowner
by certified mail under this subchapter be returned as undeliverable or
refused, then the town may cause the same to be served by a law enforcement
officer of the town, who shall make his or her return upon such service. The
provisions for the service of required notices and statements set out in this
section are supplemental to the provisions set out elsewhere in this subchapter
and are intended to authorize the use of personal service at the town’s option
where reason exists to believe that personal service may be achieved on the
landowner after service by mail has proven to be unsuccessful.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring the town to
attempt such service as a precondition to abating the violation provided that
the attempt to make service by certified mail has been made.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 93.08 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   If the landowner fails to cut and remove the vegetation within the
time prescribed in the written notice, then the town, or the contractors under
contract to the town to provide cutting and removal services, may enter upon
the real property to abate the violations of this subchapter found to exist
upon the real property as described in the notice letter previously issued.
   (B)   In cases where the cutting and removal of weeds or other rank
vegetation is accomplished by the town or by contractors under contract to the
town, the Enforcement Authority in charge of administering this subchapter
shall make a certified statement of the actual costs incurred by the town to
abate the violation. Such costs may include charges for the removal and for the
administrative costs related thereto. The statement shall be delivered to the
owner of the property by certified mail which is addressed to the landowner’s
last-known address, and the owner shall pay the amount so charged to the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   If the landowner fails to pay the amount within ten days after
receiving the statement of costs referred to in division (B) above, then the
Enforcement Authority in charge of administering this subchapter shall certify
to the county’s Auditor the amount of the bill plus any additional
administrative costs incurred in the certification. The Auditor shall place the
total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the
total amount, including accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent
taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 93.09 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Any landowner in receipt of a written notice issued pursuant to §
93.06 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal the notice of violation or
a bill issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter. Such appeal shall
be made to the Town Council pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Within five days of receipt of a notice issued under §
93.06 of this chapter or within ten days of a notice issued under §
93.08(B) of this chapter, the aggrieved landowner shall serve upon the Town
Council a written statement setting forth the landowner’s objections to the
terms of such notice and the reasons for such objections. The receipt of such
written statement by the Council President shall stay further action on the
notice pending review by the Town Council sitting as a whole.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the landowner’s statement of objections, the Council
shall offer the landowner an opportunity for a hearing on the objections at the
Council’s earliest opportunity. At such hearing, the landowner or the
landowner’s representative, who may be an attorney, shall be given the
opportunity to offer evidence, examine and cross-examine witnesses and present
arguments to show why a notice of violation, or a notice of an outstanding bill
for cutting and removal, should be rescinded or modified.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the landowner’s presentation, the Council shall
deliberate and may either confirm, modify and confirm or rescind any notices
issued pursuant to this subchapter. The decision of the Council shall be final.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The cost incurred by the town to abate a violation of §§
93.01 through
93.09 of this chapter is as follows: for the cutting and removal of weeds
during the calendar year, the town shall charge the first event at $50 per hour
with a minimum charge of the one-hour rate, a second offense at $75 per hour, a
third offense at $100 per hour, a fourth offense at $125 per hour and a fifth
offense at $150 per hour.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-6-2015)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fireworks
   
94.01   Time of use restrictions
   
94.02   Location of use restrictions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 94.01 TIME OF USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The use of fireworks, whether consumer or commercial, which produce
bangs, pops or whistles in excess of normal fire burning or which produce
sparks, excepting from sparklers, snap-pops and party poppers, within the town
limits shall be limited and restricted as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on July 1, July 2,
July 3, July 5, July 6 and July 7;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on
Memorial Day, July 4 and Labor Day;
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. on December 31; and
      (4)   Any other time authorized by the Town Council in writing.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the local Fire Chief, the
state’s Fire Marshal, the Town Marshal or any duly-authorized law enforcement
official from further restricting or prohibiting the use of fireworks during
the aforementioned periods of time for any weather-related or public safety
reasons.
(Ord. 2018-9, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 LOCATION OF USE RESTRICTIONS.
   The use of any fireworks shall be restricted to the property owned or leased
by citizens of the town and their guests. Fireworks shall not be used on any
public property of the town including, but not limited to, public streets,
public sidewalks, alleys, parks or public rights-of-way. Any person discharging
any fireworks, whether during authorized time periods or not, shall be
responsible for any and all damages or injuries which may result from the use
of said fireworks.
(Ord. 2018-9, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Fireworks violations.
      (1)   Any person who lights or otherwise discharges any restricted
fireworks during any prohibited time period shall be in violation of §§
94.01 and
94.02 of this chapter and may be issued a citation by the Town Marshal or any
duly-authorized law enforcement official. The penalty for a first violation
shall be $100. The penalty for a second violation shall be $200. The penalty
for a third violation shall be $400, and shall double for each subsequent
violation thereafter. The aforementioned fine shall be payable to the General
Fund of the town.
      (2)   Any person issued a citation for a violation of §§
94.01 and
94.02 of this chapter may appeal the issuance of the citation by providing
written notice to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office not later than 30 days after the
issuance date of the citation. The Clerk- Treasurer shall notify the Town
Council and place the request for an appeal on the agenda of the next Town
Council meeting, where the Town Council, by majority vote, shall determine the
validity of the citation after the presentation of relevant evidence.
      (3)   Any violation that remains unpaid for a period of ten days after
the date of issue, or ten days after the Town Council’s determination of
validity if an appeal is requested, will result in a small claims filing
against the offender. In the event of any small claims filing, the offender
will be responsible for any court costs together with reasonable attorney fees
for the services of the Town Attorney in bringing the action to collect the
unpaid fine.
(Ord. 2018-9, passed 10-2-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Required license and hours
   
110.03   License application
   
110.04   License fee
   
110.05   License issuance standards
   
110.06   License term and transferability
   
110.07   Exhibiting licenses and badges
   
110.08   Grounds for license revocation
   
110.09   License revocation procedure
   
110.10   Appealing to Town Council
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is a peddler or
solicitor.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever including, but not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in the temporary business of selling goods and who, in the furtherance
of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any place within the
town.
   PEDDLER. Any person who travels from house to house by any means while
carrying goods for sale, making sales or making deliveries or any person who
sells or offers goods for sale from any public place within the town without
traveling from house to house, provided that the term PEDDLER shall not include
an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR.
      (1)   Any person who travels by any means from house to house while
taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of goods to be delivered in
the future or for services or repairs to be performed either presently or in
the future.
      (2)   Any person who takes or attempts to take orders by use of telephone
for the sale of goods to be delivered or for services or repairs to be
performed.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 1-4-2005)
§ 110.02 REQUIRED LICENSE AND HOURS.
   (A)   Required license. Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or
solicitor shall obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the
town, provided that:
      (1)   No license shall be required for persons, firms or organizations
which solicit funds or sell goods or services for the purpose of raising
revenue on behalf of not-for-profit organizations; and
      (2)   No license shall be required for persons, firms or organizations
which have transacted business from a fixed business location in the town
continuously for a one-year period prior to the enactment of this chapter.
   (B)   Allowed hours.
      (1)   The license shall entitle the licensee to peddle or solicit goods
or services from house to house in the town only between the hoNovember 8,
2021urs of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to peddle or solicit goods or
services from house to house at any other time.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 1-4-2005) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applicants for a license required by this chapter shall file a
written, sworn application with the Clerk-Treasurer. Such application shall be
signed by the applicant if the applicant is an individual, by all partners in
the case of a partnership or by the president in the case of a corporation.
   (B)   The application shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name of the individual having management authority over or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time when it is proposed to
be carried on in the town and the local address of such individual, his or her
permanent address and the capacity in which he or she will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purposes the
business will be carried on, and if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
the applicant’s business;
      (5)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to be
offered for sale or delivery, and if goods, their invoice value, whether they
are to be sold by sample as well as from stock, where and by whom such goods
are manufactured or grown and where such goods are at the time of the
application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(B)(2) above or the person identified in division (B)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor, and if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for it.
   (C)   All applications for a peddler’s or solicitor’s license shall state,
in addition to the statement required by division (B) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business
which includes its registration number, if any.
   (D)   In addition, all applicants for a license required by this chapter
shall attach to their license application the following:
      (1)   If required by the Clerk-Treasurer, copies of all printed
advertising proposed to be used in connection with the applicant’s business;
      (2)   Credentials from the person, if any, for whom the applicant
proposes to do business authorizing the applicant to act as such
representative; and
      (3)   If requested by the Clerk-Treasurer, applicants who propose to
handle foodstuffs shall additionally attach to their application a statement
from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the date of
application, which certifies the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable diseases.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 1-4-2005)
§ 110.04 LICENSE FEE.
   Every applicant for a license required by this chapter shall pay to the
Clerk-Treasurer a fee of $10.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 1-4-2005)
§ 110.05 LICENSE ISSUANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall approve an application for a license
required by this chapter and issue the license unless an investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduction of the applicant’s business
would pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare.
   (B)   In particular, the following shall constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application, such as tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 1-4-2005)
§ 110.06 LICENSE TERM AND TRANSFERABILITY.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be for a period of 24 hours
from payment of the license fee but may be extended up to 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof. No license issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be transferable.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 1-4-2005)
§ 110.07 EXHIBITING LICENSES AND BADGES.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event that
more than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a badge to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. Such badge shall be worn conspicuously by the
licensee during such time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
   (C)   All peddlers or solicitors shall exhibit their license at the request
of any person.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 1-4-2005) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 GROUNDS FOR LICENSE REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   The licensee conducting the licensed business in an unlawful manner or
in such a way so as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or
general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 1-4-2005) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 LICENSE REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Town President
after notice and hearing. A notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing and specifically set forth the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last-known address at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 1-4-2005)
§ 110.10 APPEALING TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.05 or
110.08 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. Such
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council a written statement setting
forth the grounds for appeal within 14 days after notice of the decision has
been mailed to such person’s last-known address. The Council shall set the time
and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to such
person in the same manner as provided in §
110.09 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after such hearing shall be final.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 1-4-2005)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, organization, partnership, firm or corporation which
violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
$250 for a first offense, not to exceed $500 for a second offense and not to
exceed $1,000 for each subsequent offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
to be committed on each day when a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties, the town may seek injunctive
relief to prevent ongoing violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-7, passed 1-4-2005)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   [Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
151.   TREES
      
152.   FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
      
153.   BUILDING STANDARDS
      
154.   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
      
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Sidewalks
   
150.01   Definitions
   
150.02   Application and notice for construction or repair
   
150.03   Standards for construction, repair or reconstruction
   
150.04   New construction
   
150.05   Construction, repair or reconstruction; in conjunction with street
project
   
150.06   Construction, repair or reconstruction; not in conjunction with street
project
   
150.07   Construction, repair or reconstruction; liability of property owner
   
150.08   Unsafe sidewalks; duty of property owner
SIDEWALKS
§ 150.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any firm, corporation, partnership, voluntary association or
organization of every nature, as well as individuals.
   SIDEWALK. Any sidewalk adjoining any public street. A SIDEWALK shall not
include any crosswalk or any portion of any driveway between the street and the
proposed or existing walk.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 150.02 APPLICATION AND NOTICE FOR CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.
   (A)   No permit shall be necessary for the construction or repair of
sidewalks. However, any resident seeking to have the town contribute towards
material costs as detailed in §
150.06 of this chapter must file an application with the town at the Utility
Office.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application from a resident of the town, an
employee of the Utility Office shall contact the owners of any property
adjacent to the property of the resident filing the application and provide
notice of the anticipated sidewalk construction or repair.
      (2)   Any adjacent property owner shall have ten business days to respond
indicating any intent to undertake sidewalk construction or repair in
conjunction with his or her adjoining property owner. Failure to respond to the
Utility Office within ten days from the date of first notice shall constitute a
waiver on the part of the adjacent property owner.
   (C)   If an adjoining property owner indicates his or her intent to also
participate in sidewalk construction or repair, then an employee of the Utility
Office shall contact that owner’s adjoining property owners and provide the
same notice detailed in division (B) above.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 150.03 STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR OR RECONSTRUCTION.
   The following standards shall be adhered to for all sidewalk construction,
repair or reconstruction.
   (A)   The Town Supervisor or his or her designated agent shall establish the
line, grade, slope and design standards for all sidewalk construction, repair
or reconstruction.
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be made of cement limestone mix in accordance with
the specifications provided by the Town Supervisor or his or her designated
agent. All sidewalks shall be located within the street right-of-way and
adjacent to the property line, except that all reasonable effort shall be made
to avoid cutting trees. However, in no case shall sidewalk constructed under
the provisions of this subchapter be located on private property.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be constructed to be not less than three feet wide
on local streets, major streets and state trunk-lines, with LOCAL STREETS,
MAJOR STREETS and STATE TRUNK-LINES being defined in accordance with the street
system map of the town as prepared by the state’s Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 12-5-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All new development occurring within the town which is adjacent to a
public street where sidewalks do not presently exist shall provide for the
construction of sidewalks in accordance with the requirements of §§
150.02 and
150.03 of this chapter. Provision for such sidewalk construction shall be
included as part of site plan review or subdivision approval or as part of
plans submitted for obtaining a building permit.
   (B)   Such newly-constructed sidewalk shall be paid for entirely by the
property owner unless otherwise determined by a resolution of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 150.05 CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR OR RECONSTRUCTION; IN CONJUNCTION WITH STREET
PROJECT.
   Whenever the Town Council shall consider the necessity for the construction,
reconstruction or resurfacing of a public street, the Town Council shall also
consider the necessity for the construction, repair or reconstruction of the
sidewalk. Whenever feasible, such sidewalk work shall be completed in
conjunction with the street project as finally approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 150.06 CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR OR RECONSTRUCTION; NOT IN CONJUNCTION WITH STREET
PROJECT.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Supervisor determines that a sidewalk is defective
or unsafe for use, where it is determined that new sidewalk construction is
required to provide reasonable public access for pedestrian traffic or whenever
any property owner abutting a public street submits a written petition
requesting sidewalk construction, repair or reconstruction, the Town Supervisor
or his or her designated agent shall make a report of such determination to the
Town Council.
   (B)   (1)   Property owners may complete the sidewalk construction, repair
or reconstruction themselves or through their contractor provided that they
notify the town and secure a sidewalk permit by the date specified in the
“Notice of Sidewalk Repair or Construction” sent to the property owner by the
town, and further provided that all such work is completed within 30 days of
said date.
      (2)   After the 30-day period, the permit shall be invalid and the town
shall construct, repair or reconstruct the sidewalk and charge the property
owner in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   The cost for new sidewalk construction where no sidewalk has
existed before or for sidewalk repair or reconstruction shall be borne 100% by
the abutting property owner. However, the town may reimburse the abutting
property owner 60% of the material costs related to such construction or repair
one time so long as the last prior reimbursement from the town was more than 20
years prior.
      (2)   In order to receive a reimbursement of the appropriate material
costs, the abutting property owner shall submit receipts showing the material
costs related to his or her project within 30 days of completion of the
project. The town shall have 45 days to approve said request for reimbursement
and to issue payment to the abutting property owner.
   (D)   All sidewalk assessments determined under this section shall be due,
payable and collectible and shall become a lien on the property.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 150.07 CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR OR RECONSTRUCTION; LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   Under no circumstance shall the town pay for any portion of the cost
of sidewalk construction, repair or reconstruction where a sidewalk has been
damaged by willful misuse or carelessness, as could perceivably occur with
heavy construction equipment, moving vans or similar items. For such costs, the
abutting property owner shall be 100% liable and responsible.
   (B)   Where construction of otherwise-satisfactory sidewalk is desired by an
abutting property owner for his or her own convenience, such as the lowering of
grade to provide a more suitable driveway, the cost shall be paid 100% by such
property owner.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 150.08 UNSAFE SIDEWALKS; DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   No person shall permit any sidewalk which adjoins property owned by
him or her to fall into a state of disrepair or to be unsafe. Any finding that
a sidewalk is in a state of disrepair or has become unsafe shall be made, in
writing, by the Town Supervisor.
   (B)   Any property owner shall have the right to seek a review of a
determination by the Town Supervisor that a sidewalk has become unsafe or in a
state of disrepair by making a written request for a review of that finding by
the Town Council within ten days of receiving notice from the Town Supervisor
of the finding that a sidewalk is unsafe or is in a state of disrepair.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section may subject the
property owner to a fine to be determined by the Town Council. In addition, if
a property owner fails to remediate any sidewalk in a state of disrepair or an
unsafe state after notice from the Town Supervisor, then the town may conduct
any such repairs which are deemed necessary and seek to recover the costs of
said repairs from the property owner including, but not limited to, any costs
of construction, any costs of collection and any reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the town.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 12-5-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: TREES
Section
Carolina Poplar and Silver Poplar Tree Prohibition
   
151.01   Carolina Poplar and Silver Poplar trees prohibited
   
151.02   Trees to be cut down by owner
   
151.03   Failure to comply by owner
   
151.04   Future planting unlawful
 
   
151.99   Penalty
CAROLINA POPLAR AND SILVER POPLAR TREE PROHIBITION
§ 151.01 CAROLINA POPLAR AND SILVER POPLAR TREES PROHIBITED.
   On and after the passage of this subchapter and its publication according to
law, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to maintain or
permit to grow any tree of the species known as Silver Poplar or any tree of
the species known as Carolina Poplar upon any street or ground within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 1926-2, passed 2-5-1926) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 TREES TO BE CUT DOWN BY OWNER.
   From and after the passage and publication of this subchapter according to
law, all trees of the kinds designated in §
151.01 of this chapter shall be cut down and destroyed by the owner or owners
of the grounds or of the lots or parcels of land abutting upon any street in
the town on which said trees are now growing.
(Ord. 1926-2, passed 2-5-1926)
§ 151.03 FAILURE TO COMPLY BY OWNER.
   After the taking effect of this subchapter, if any owner or owners shall
fail or refuse to cut down or destroy such trees as described in §
151.01 of this chapter, then after five days’ notice to such owner, the Town
Council of the Town of Greentown may, by the Town Marshal or other employee,
cut down and destroy or girdle such trees at the expense of such owner.
(Ord. 1926-2, passed 2-5-1926) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 FUTURE PLANTING UNLAWFUL.
   After the passage and publication of this subchapter according to law, it
shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to plant any trees of the
kinds or species described in §
151.01 of this chapter within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 1926-2, passed 2-5-1926) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
151.01 through
151.04 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not
exceeding $10.
(Ord. 1926-2, passed 2-5-1926)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Interpretation
   
152.06   Scope
   
152.07   Effective date
   
152.08   Definitions
   
152.09   Floodplain Administrator duties and responsibilities
   
152.10   Compliance required
   
152.11   Abrogation; greater restrictions prevail
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
152.14   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
152.15   Permit for floodplain development
   
152.16   Permit procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.30   SFHA and flood-prone area general standards
   
152.31   SFHA specific standards
   
152.32   Subdivision proposal standards
   
152.33   Critical facility standards
   
152.34   Flood-prone area standards
   
152.35   Identified floodway standards
   
152.36   Identified fringe standards
   
152.37   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation,
floodways or fringes
Variance Procedures
   
152.50   Variance and Appeals Board duties
   
152.51   Variance procedures
   
152.52   Variance conditions
   
152.53   Variance notification
   
152.54   Historical structure variances
   
152.55   Special condition variances
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   In I.C. 36-7-4 et seq., the legislature of the state has granted the power
to local government units to control land use within their jurisdictions.
Therefore, the Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
resulting in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affects the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses which are vulnerable to floods or are
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-
proofed or otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities serving such
uses, to be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally-subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize the expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities located in
floodplains, such as water and gas mains, streets, bridges and electric,
telephone and sewer lines; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner so as to minimize flood-
blight areas.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.05 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.06 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter came into full force and effect on February 4, 2015.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AH, Zone A99, Zone AO and Zone AR on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE and ZONES A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1%
annual chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations
are shown within these zones. ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of
ZONES A1-A30.
      (3)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding, usually areas of ponding, where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance-
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
      (5)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding, usually sheet flow on sloping terrain, where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (6)   ZONE AR. Areas which result from the decertification of a
previously-accredited flood protection system which is determined to be in the
process of being restored to provide base flood protection.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. An appurtenant structure with a floor area 400 square
feet or less the location of which is on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay sheds.
   ADDITION. As relates to existing structures, any walled and roofed expansion
to the perimeter of a structure where the addition is connected by a common
load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed ADDITION which
is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-
bearing walls is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A zone designated AH or AO on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly-defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade, or below
ground level, on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River which forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity which has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program which have gone beyond the minimum floodplain-management requirements
to develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations and installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials
or hazardous wastes.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined but flooding is
possible. In a D ZONE, flood insurance is available in participating
communities but is not required by regulation.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   The storage of materials;
         (b)   The construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or
any addition to a structure;
         (c)   The construction of flood-control structures such as dams,
channel improvements, levees, dikes and the like;
         (d)   The construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (f)   Installing utilities, erecting walls and fences, constructing
roads or similar projects;
         (g)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations; or
         (h)   Any other activity which might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities which do not involve
filling, grading or the excavation or construction of permanent structures,
such as painting or reroofing for the maintenance of existing structures and
facilities, resurfacing roads, gardening and plowing or similar agricultural
practices.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (namely posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement which verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first-layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed is completed before the
effective date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance. Said facilities
include, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazard and regulatory floodways.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles as well as the FIRM, the
FBFM, where applicable, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. See FLOOD.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. See FREEBOARD.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetlands, lakes
or watercourses which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventative measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain which includes, but is not
limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-control works, floodplain
management regulations and open-space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special-purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance and floodplain- management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING or DRY FLOOD- PROOFING. A method of protecting a structure
which ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and
sanitary facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with
walls which are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All
structural components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated
debris-impact forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating the structures to or
above the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer
or architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak-flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors which could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As relates to the variances of this chapter, the exceptional
hardship which would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
town’s Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance be exceptional,
unusual and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial
hardship alone is not exceptional. Likewise, inconvenience, aesthetic
considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences or the disapproval of
one’s neighbors cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of
these problems can be resolved through other means without granting a variance
even if the alternative is more expensive or requires the property owner to
build elsewhere or to put the parcel to a different use than originally
intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
next to the proposed walls of a structure prior to the start of construction.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the state’s Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially-
damaged structure which exceeds the minimal repair cost and which is required
to bring a substantially-damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new-business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,1997, will
include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain-management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps which can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently- effective FEMA map which establishes that a property is not located
in a SFHA through the submittal of property-specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently- effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after the completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   If the garage is the lowest level of the structure, the top of the
garage floor;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; or
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters by
providing a minimum of two openings which are in addition to doorways and
windows in a minimum of two exterior walls. If a structure has more than one
enclosed area, then each area shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and for accessing the building.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value excluding the land as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller and as established by what the local real estate
market will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified
appraisal, the replacement cost depreciated by the age of the building, the
actual cash value or the adjusted assessed value.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program which makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, which includes, at a minimum,
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, is completed on or after the
effective date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction or
velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone which begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base, 1% annual chance, flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or corrections to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons or which unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use of any navigable
lake or river, bay, stream, canal or basin in the customary manner.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which:
      (1)   Is built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Is 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Is designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable
to and approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
152.13 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE
FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., as amended, which states that no new flood insurance
coverage shall be provided for any property that the Administrator finds has
been declared by a duly-constituted state or local zoning authority or other
authorized public body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations
or ordinances intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or
occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town are
generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the county and
its incorporated areas dated February 4, 2015, as well as on any future
updates, amendments or revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date. These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A,
AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   The date the building permit was issued, provided that the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180
days of the permit date; includes substantial improvement.
      (2)   Actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means either the first placement of
the permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a
slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any
work beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on
a foundation.
      (3)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation such as
clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets
or walkways, the excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, the
erection of temporary forms or the installation on the property of accessory
buildings not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure,
such as garages or sheds.
      (4)   For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure which is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. This term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT does not include improvements of structures to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code
requirements or any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted or enforced the proper floodplain- management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship which permits
construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically-designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than it is in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs, or B Zones on older FIRMs, designate
areas subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded, the 500-year flood. Unshaded X ZONES, or C Zones on older FIRMs,
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM which reflects the severity or
type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. In these zones, flood insurance
is available in participating communities but is not required by regulation.
ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONE B and ZONE C.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.09 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Designation of Administrator. The Town Council hereby appoints the
Plan Commission Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of
this chapter, herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities. The Floodplain Administrator or his or
her designated staff is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. The Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose. The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
      (3)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits or authorizations are to be maintained on file with the
floodplain development permit;
      (4)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
152.35 and
152.37(A) of this chapter and maintain a record of such authorization with
either a copy of the actual permit or authorization or a copy of the floodplain
analysis or regulatory assessment;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration to or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (7)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (8)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, regulatory flood data,
substantial damage determinations, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments or letters of recommendation, federal permit documents
and as-built elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
      (9)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently-effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor,
including the basement, of all new or substantially-improved structures in
accordance with §
152.16 of this chapter;
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially-improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
152.16 of this chapter;
      (13)   Perform a minimum of three inspections to ensure that all
applicable ordinance and floodplain- development requirements have been
satisfied, the first upon the establishment of the flood protection grade
reference mark at the development site, the second upon the establishment of
the structure’s footprint or the establishment of the lowest floor and the
final inspection upon completion and submission of the required finished-
construction elevation certificate. Authorized town officials shall have the
right to enter and inspect properties located in the SFHA;
      (14)   Issue stop-work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and be given to the owner of the
property or his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state
the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (15)   Revoke permits:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval
issued under the provisions of this chapter in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material facts in the
application or plans on which the permit or approval was based; and
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke permits upon a
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the repair, construction,
erection, alteration, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which a permit was issued is in violation of or not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.10 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 ABROGATION; GREATER RESTRICTIONS PREVAIL.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the town, the state’s Department of Natural Resources
or the state for any flood damage which results from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.13 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood.
   (B)   The best available regulatory flood data is listed in this division
(B) below.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of the county and
its incorporated areas dated February 4, 2015, and in the corresponding Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated February 4, 2015, as well as in any future updates,
amendments or revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an “A Zone” on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the county and its incorporated areas dated
February 4, 2015, as well as on any future updates, amendments or revisions
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources provided that the upstream drainage area from
the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees
with the best available data, the party needs to replace the existing data with
better data which meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this
data must be submitted to the state’s Department of Natural Resources for
review and subsequent approval.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or in the absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources provided that the upstream drainage area from
the subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more-
restrictive data in the new, or not yet effective, mapping or study shall be
utilized for permitting, construction or development purposes, replacing all
previously-effective, less- restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.14 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain,
or the SFHA, on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevations
provided on the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, then that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated
accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation, or natural grade, of the site in question is above
the base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, then that site
shall be considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be
applied. The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.15 PERMIT FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question and the existing or proposed structures,
earthen fill, drainage facilities or storage of materials or equipment and the
location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   The location of the proposed development sufficient to
accurately locate the property and structure or structures in relation to
existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site-development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   The elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor, including
the basement, of all proposed buildings, which should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   The elevation in NAVD 88 or NGVD to which any nonresidential
structure will be floodproofed; and
         (g)   A description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required, and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. See §
152.09(B)(5) in this chapter for additional information.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure
or a structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor as built. Said certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by the same.
            1.   The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor
elevation survey data submitted. The applicant shall correct deficiencies
detected by such review before any further work is allowed to proceed.
            2.   Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk.
         (b)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a
floodproofed structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a floodproofing certificate.
            1.   Certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered professional engineer and certified by the same;
the Floodplain Administrator shall review the floodproofing certification
submitted. The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected by such review
before any further work is allowed to proceed.
            2.   Failure to submit the floodproofing certification or failure
to make the corrections required shall be cause to issue a stop- work order for
the project.
      (3)   Finished construction.
         (a)   An elevation certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest
floor elevation is required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator
upon the completion of construction.
         (b)   If the project includes a floodproofing measure, then
floodproofing certification is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.30 SFHA AND FLOOD-PRONE AREA GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, the
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices which minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at or
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components which are below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes,
electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed
service facilities may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed so as
to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Parking lots, driveways and sidewalks within the SFHA shall be
constructed with permeable materials.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost, a replacement ratio of one-to- one, due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and on the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be on the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory floodwater and will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by floodwater, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by floodwater.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory floodwater.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work. Once site
work is complete but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating that the fill and excavation comply
with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.31 SFHA SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Structures in general. In addition to the requirements of §
152.30 of this chapter, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG. This building-protection requirement
applies to the following situations:
      (1)   The construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   The addition or improvement made to any existing structure where
the cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of
the existing structure, excluding the value of the land;
      (3)   The reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, excluding the value of the
land, before the damage occurred;
      (4)   The installation of a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than 180 days;
      (5)   The installation of a manufactured home on a new site or of a new
manufactured home on an existing site; this section does not apply to returning
an existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   The reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive-loss structure;
and
      (7)   The addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or the substantial
improvement of any residential structure or manufactured home shall have the
lowest floor, including the basement, at or above the FPG, or two feet above
the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, then openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below.
   (C)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   New construction or the substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or nonresidential structure or manufactured home shall either have
the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated to or above the FPG, or two
feet above the base flood elevation, or be floodproofed to or above the FPG.
Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, then
openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters shall
be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D) below.
      (2)   Structures located in all A Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that the structure and attendant
utility facilities below the FPG are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structural design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
152.09(B)(12) of this chapter; and
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or the substantial improvement of elevated
structures shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG. Elevated structures
with fully-enclosed areas formed by a foundation and other exterior walls below
the flood protection grade shall be designed to preclude finished living space
and allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (2)   Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be not more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
         (d)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to a hole in the wall but
excludes any device which may be inserted, such as a typical foundation air
vent device;
         (e)   Access to an enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles, as with garage doors, for the limited storage
of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises, as with standard
exterior doors, or for entry to the living area, as with stairways or
elevators;
         (f)   The interior portion of an enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
         (g)   The interior grade of an enclosed area shall be at an elevation
at or higher than the exterior grade;
         (h)   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings
and venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as
flood vents and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way
will violate the requirements of this division (D). Periodic inspections will
be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
affidavit shall be recorded in the office of the county’s Recorder; and
         (i)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with the
structure’s deed a non- conversion agreement declaring that the area below a
lowest floor where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet shall
not be improved, finished or otherwise converted; the community will have the
right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall be
recorded in the office of the county’s Recorder.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      (2)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified Proctor Test. The results of the test showing compliance
shall be retained in the permit file.
      (3)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (4)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, then the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one
vertical.
      (5)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (6)   The top of the lowest floor, including the basement, shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles. Manufactured homes and
recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially improved on a site for
more than 180 days must meet one of the following requirements.
      (1)   The following requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site which is outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a
new manufactured home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision or in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage”
as a result of a flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and shall be
securely anchored to an adequately-anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully-enclosed areas formed by a foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and to
allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated structures
in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   The following requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision which has
not been substantially damaged by a flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations which are not less than 36 inches in height above grade
and shall be securely anchored to an adequately-anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully-enclosed areas formed by a foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and to
allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated structures
in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for HIGHWAY USE, defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect-
type utilities and security devices and with no permanently-attached additions;
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   Relief from the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be
granted for accessory structures.
      (2)   Such structures must meet the following standards:
         (a)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
         (b)   Shall be constructed of flood- resistant materials;
         (c)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot so as to offer
minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (d)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
         (e)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
         (f)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as
required for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above-ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above-ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.32 SUBDIVISION PROPOSAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards. Base flood elevation data shall be provided
for subdivision proposals and other proposed developments, including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, which are greater than the lesser of
50 lots or five acres.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA or
limit the density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into and out of the
SFHA for pedestrians and vehicles, and especially for emergency responders.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.33 CRITICAL FACILITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The construction of new critical facilities shall be located outside
of the limits of the SFHA to the extent possible. The construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible
alternative site is available.
   (B)   Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the lowest
floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by
or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the FPG shall
be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.34 FLOOD-PRONE AREA STANDARDS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA- published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.35 IDENTIFIED FLOODWAY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.13 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. A floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris
and potential projectiles and have erosion potential.
   (B)   (1)   If a site is in an identified floodway, then the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application along with
all pertinent plans and specifications to the state’s Department of Natural
Resources and apply for a permit for construction in a floodway.
      (2)   Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for construction in
a floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources is required prior
to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit,
construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes
land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing, paving and the
like which are undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure but excludes non-substantial additions or improvements to existing,
lawful residences in a non-boundary river floodway, as the construction of non-
substantial additions or improvements to a residence in a non- boundary river
floodway is allowed without obtaining said permit from the state’s Department
of Natural Resources per I.C. 14-28-1-26. If fill is needed to elevate an
addition above the existing grade, then prior approval for the fill is required
from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization, when applicable, has been issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or a letter of
authorization has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit
provided that the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met. The
floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than the permit for
construction in a floodway that is issued by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources. However, a community’s more- restrictive regulations, if any, shall
take precedence.
   (D)   No development acting alone or in combination with existing or future
development shall be allowed which will adversely affect the efficiency of or
unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as
an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least fifteen-
hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation
under project conditions to that under the natural or pre-floodway conditions
as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (E)   For projects involving channel modifications or fill, including
levees, the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found in 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 IDENTIFIED FRINGE STANDARDS.
   If a site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided that
the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met. The key provision is
that the top of the lowest floor of any new or substantially-improved structure
shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.37 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION,
FLOODWAYS OR FRINGES.
   (A)   Where the drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one
square mile:
      (1)   If a site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is greater than one square mile, then the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application along with all pertinent
plans and specifications to the state’s Department of Natural Resources for
review and comment;
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway, including letters of
authorization, or a floodplain analysis or regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources; and
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway, including letters of authorization, or the
floodplain analysis or regulatory assessment approving the proposed
development, a floodplain development permit may be issued provided that the
conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than
the conditions received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources and
provided that the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (B)   Where the drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square
mile:
      (1)   If a site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, then the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site; and
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator, upon receipt, may issue the local
floodplain development permit provided that the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (C)   When combined with all other existing and anticipated development, the
total cumulative effect of the proposed development shall not increase the
regulatory flood more than fourteen-hundredths of one foot and shall not
increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015) Penalty, see §
152.99
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.50 VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD DUTIES.
   (A)   The town’s Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter. The Board shall
hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that an error in any requirement,
determination or decision is made by the Floodplain Administrator in the
enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such
decision to the county’s Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.51 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter and:
   (A)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain-management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including the maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as streets and bridges or sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.52 VARIANCE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
152.35 or
152.37(A) of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
152.35 or
152.37(A) of this chapter will require a permit from the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction in §
152.31 of this chapter may be granted only when a new structure is to be
located on a lot one-half acre or less in size which is contiguous to and
surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the flood
protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood hazard.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of a
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the state’s Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation. See §
152.53 of this chapter.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the state’s Department of Natural Resources upon request. See §
152.53 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.53 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted which allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property.
   (B)   A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain Administrator
in the office of the county’s Recorder and shall be recorded in a manner so
that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including the justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.54 HISTORICAL STRUCTURE VARIANCES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.55 SPECIAL CONDITION VARIANCES.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed in §§
152.50 through
152.55 of this chapter and the purposes of this chapter, the town’s Board of
Zoning Appeals may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it
deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
the conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
All violations shall be considered a common nuisance and shall be treated as
such in accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code for the town. All
violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $100.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The Town Council shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and may therefore cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking other lawful
actions to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith
shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015)
CHAPTER 153: BUILDING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Prevention of permit conflicts of interest
Unsafe Buildings
   
153.15   Statute adoption
   
153.16   Enforcement authority, powers and limitations
   
153.17   Definitions
   
153.18   Unsafe building description
   
153.19   Unsafe buildings declared public nuisance
   
153.20   Sealing of unsafe buildings
   
153.21   Unsafe Building Fund
   
153.22   Renovation standards
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PREVENTION OF PERMIT CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to satisfy the requirements of
I.C. 36-1-27-4.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      CONFLICT OF INTEREST. A direct or indirect financial interest in the
issuance of a permit pursuant to I.C. 36-1-27-1.
      PERMIT. The meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-1109(b).
   (C)   Prevention procedure. A Building Commissioner, Building Code Official,
Inspector, Town Marshal or other designated town employee or agent may not
issue a permit or oversee the issuance of a permit through a subordinate if
such person has a conflict of interest. A Building Commissioner, Building Code
Official, Inspector, Town Marshal or other designated town employee or agent
shall report a conflict of interest to the Town Manager, the Clerk-Treasurer,
the Town Council President and the Town Attorney promptly upon the discovery of
any such conflict of interest. Promptly upon the receipt of any such conflict
of interest report made under this section, the Town Council President, in
consultation with the Town Attorney, shall appoint a qualified, temporary
replacement Building Commissioner, Building Code Official, Inspector, Town
Marshal or other designated town employee or agent for the sole purpose of
reviewing or issuing the permit for which the conflict of interest exists.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 8-6-2019)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 153.15 STATUTE ADOPTION.
   The provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., which concern the enforcement of
building standards, are hereby adopted in their entirety and as they may be
subsequently amended, and are made a part hereof by reference to the same as if
fully set out herein.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 12-1-1998)
§ 153.16 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY, POWERS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Powers held. As the Enforcement Authority, the President of the Town
Council or his or her designee shall be authorized to administer and to proceed
under the provisions of said law in ordering the repair or removal of any
building found to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified hereafter.
   (B)   Limitations of power.
      (1)   Wherever in this subchapter or under applicable state statute it is
provided that anything must be done to the approval of, or subject to, the
discretion of the Enforcement Authority, this shall be construed to give such
Enforcement Authority only the discretion of determining whether or not the
rules and standards established by this subchapter or by state statutes have
been complied with.
      (2)   No such provisions shall be construed as giving the Enforcement
Authority discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall
be, the power to require conditions not prescribed by this subchapter or state
statutes or the power to enforce such provisions in an arbitrary or capricious
manner.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 12-1-1998)
§ 153.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Town Council shall be the executive department authorized by
this subchapter to administer the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The President of the Town Council or his or her
designee.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The person or those persons designated as such by the
legislative body of the town under the authority of I.C. 36-7-9-2. The HEARING
AUTHORITY shall perform those functions specified by state statute.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY
INTEREST as set out in I.C. 36-7-9-2 is specifically incorporated by reference
into this subchapter as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 12-1-1998)
§ 153.18 UNSAFE BUILDING DESCRIPTION.
   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or maintenance
in the town by adding the following.
   (A)   Definition.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure having any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that such conditions or
defects exist to the extent that the life, health, property or safety of its
occupants or the public is endangered.
   (B)   Conditions and defects. Such conditions or defects are as follows:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not arranged so as to provide a safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the town or any law or ordinance of the state or town relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (3)   Whenever any building or structure, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non- supporting
part, member or portion less than 50% or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resistive qualities or
characteristics or weather-resistive qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly- constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location;
      (4)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes is determined by the Enforcement Authority to be unsanitary,
unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that it is likely to cause
sickness or disease because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities or other such causes;
      (5)   Whenever any building or structure is determined by the Enforcement
Authority to be a fire hazard because of obsolescence, dilapidated condition,
deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of sufficient fire-resistive
construction, faulty electrical wiring, gas connections or heating apparatuses
or other such causes; and
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 12-1-1998)
§ 153.19 UNSAFE BUILDINGS DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined after
inspection by the Enforcement Authority to be unsafe as defined in this
subchapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances, which shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 12-1-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.20 SEALING OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Upon a finding by the Enforcement Authority that a building or structure is
“unsafe” as defined by I.C. 36-7-9-4 or by this subchapter, in addition to all
other powers provided by law, the Enforcement Authority may, pursuant to I.C.
36-7-9-5(a)(2), proceed to seal the unsafe building against intrusion by
unauthorized persons according to the administrative procedures set out in I.C.
36-7-9-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 12-1-1998)
§ 153.21 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
Town Council in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 12-1-1998)
§ 153.22 RENOVATION STANDARDS.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good, professional
manner according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The
provisions of the rules pertaining to construction, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical and one- and two- family dwellings promulgated by the Administrative
Building Council of the state shall be considered standard and acceptable
practice for all matters covered by this subchapter or by orders issued
pursuant to this subchapter by the Enforcement Authority of the town or his or
her designee.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 12-1-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Unsafe buildings. No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, improve, remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
premises, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any of the provisions of §§
153.15 through
153.22 of this chapter or of any order issued by the Enforcement Authority. Any
person violating the provisions of §§
153.15 through
153.22 of this chapter or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall commit a Class C infraction for
each day such violation continues.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 154: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Statute adoption
   
154.002   Construction Standards
   
154.003   Prohibition
Administrative Requirements
   
154.015   Purpose of Construction Standards
   
154.016   Administrative procedures
   
154.017   Permits for construction
   
154.018   Inspection during construction
Excavating and Backfill for Structures
   
154.030   Description
   
154.031   Quality assurance
   
154.032   References
   
154.033   Fill materials
   
154.034   Excavation
   
154.035   Backfill and embankment
   
154.036   Compaction testing
Trenching and Backfilling for Utilities
   
154.050   Description
   
154.051   Quality assurance
   
154.052   References
   
154.053   Care of existing structures and property
   
154.054   Existing underground structures and utilities
   
154.055   Backfill materials
   
154.056   Pipe materials
   
154.057   Execution
   
154.058   Trenching
   
154.059   Removal of excavated material
   
154.060   Pavement removal
   
154.061   Protection and care of existing facilities
   
154.062   Structures encountered
   
154.063   Covering ends
   
154.064   Highway or railroad crossings
   
154.065   Stabilization
   
154.066   Sheeting and bracing
   
154.067   Pipe bedding
   
154.068   Backfilling
   
154.069   Compaction testing
Surface Restoration
   
154.080   Description
   
154.081   References
   
154.082   Asphalt paving
   
154.083   Concrete surface replacement
   
154.084   Grassed areas
   
154.085   Execution
   
154.086   Asphalt pavement application
   
154.087   Seeding limitations
Gravity Sanitary Sewers
   
154.100   Description
   
154.101   Polyvinyl chloride pipe (PVC)
   
154.102   Ductile iron pipe
   
154.103   Building sewers
   
154.104   General construction requirements
   
154.105   Pipe laying
   
154.106   Leakage tests
   
154.107   Deflection testing
Sanitary Sewer Force Mains
   
154.120   Description
   
154.121   Quality assurance
   
154.122   Polyvinyl chloride pipe (PVC)
   
154.123   Ductile iron pipe
   
154.124   Handling
   
154.125   Dimensions
   
154.126   Pipe laying
   
154.127   Thrust restraint
   
154.128   Hydrostatic testing
   
154.129   Identification/location tape
Precast Concrete Structures
   
154.140   Description
   
154.141   Delivery, storage and handling
   
154.142   Location
   
154.143   General product requirements
   
154.144   Concrete strength
   
154.145   Sewer manholes
   
154.146   Lift station structures and valve vaults
   
154.147   Frames and covers
   
154.148   Manhole steps
   
154.149   Access hatch
   
154.150   Installation
Lift Station Equipment
   
154.165   Description
   
154.166   Submittals
   
154.167   Acceptable manufacturers
   
154.168   Materials
   
154.169   Lift station piping
   
154.170   Valves
   
154.171   Fencing
   
154.172   Standby power generator
   
154.173   Lift station installation
   
154.174   Fence posts
   
154.175   Generator installation
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Construction Standards, Standard Details
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 STATUTE ADOPTION.
   The provisions of 675 I.A.C. 13 concerning the regulation and use of
materials in the repair, alteration and construction of structures and
improvements are made a part by reference as if fully set out herein and are
adopted in their entirety and as may be amended.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.002 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The Construction Standards shall be those defined building and construction
standards attached hereto and incorporated herein, now and as they may be
subsequently amended in the future.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.003 PROHIBITION.
   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or
premises, or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter or of any of the adopted construction
standards of the town.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.015 PURPOSE OF CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Construction Standards have been developed for the town in order
to establish a quality of work and town-wide consistency in the infrastructure
for water, sanitary sewers, storm sewers and road construction. These standards
of construction shall be required of all new private development and also of
improvements or modifications to existing private infrastructure within the
town’s corporate limits and the service boundaries to which service of the
respective utility is expected. These standards shall be enforced by the town
in accordance with its ordinances and legal authority.
   (B)   The term TOWN as used throughout this chapter shall be defined as the
Town of Greentown, Indiana, a municipality whose authority lies in the Town
Council, Utility Superintendents and Planning Commission. The CONTRACTOR, as
used throughout this chapter, shall mean any property owner, developer,
contractor or other entity involved with the development or subdivision of land
and improvements or with modifications to existing private infrastructure. The
materials and methods described throughout this chapter shall be considered the
minimum quality expected. It shall be within the sole discretion of the town to
modify or waive the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.016 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Other ordinances enforced. In conjunction with this chapter, the town
has adopted other ordinances regarding subdivision control and utility use,
planning and zoning and charges. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
contradicting or overruling such ordinances.
   (B)   Submittal of plans for review. Before any infrastructure improvements
or construction can begin, detailed construction plans shall be submitted to
the town for review and approval. All plans shall be prepared and certified by
a professional engineer or registered land surveyor as allowed for and provided
by state law. The plans shall incorporate the requirements of this chapter and
be prepared on sheets no larger than 24 inches by 36 inches in dimension. A
minimum of four sets of plans shall be submitted, with one set returned to the
contractor upon approval. Upon completion of the work, an “as-built” or record
set of drawings shall be submitted to the town which accurately show any
revisions made during the construction of the project. Said record drawings
shall be submitted in a timely manner, but in no case shall they be submitted
more than six weeks after project completion or the completion of any phase, as
may be appropriate. In addition to the paper drawings, the contractor shall
provide the town with a copy of any electronic media, or AutoCAD files, which
shows the various utility locations for the purpose of updating the town’s
master drawings.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.017 PERMITS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the developer, contractor or
property owner to obtain any and all necessary permits required from state,
federal and local regulatory agencies with regard to utility and infrastructure
construction. Such permits may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   The state’s Department of Environmental Management (IDEM);
      (2)   The state’s Department of Natural Resources (IDNR);
      (3)   The state’s Department of Transportation (INDOT); and
      (4)   The state’s and county’s Soils Conservation Office.
   (B)   In addition to its own requirements, the town will not allow the
construction of utilities and related infrastructure to proceed until it has
been given reasonable assurance that all required regulatory permits have been
obtained. Copies of such permits shall be provided to the town before
construction begins.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.018 INSPECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   The town reserves the right to inspect any work completed by the contractor
in order to ensure conformance with the Construction Standards. Such inspection
shall be performed at the town’s discretion and expense. It shall be the
responsibility of the contractor to notify the town at least 48 hours in
advance of any testing which is specified as to be witnessed by the town. No
connection shall be made to any existing town utilities before inspection and
approval by the appropriate town personnel. A final inspection must be
completed by the town prior to completion of the project.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
EXCAVATING AND BACKFILL FOR STRUCTURES
§ 154.030 DESCRIPTION.
   This subchapter describes the work involved with excavating, filling and
embankment for the various structures such as utility manholes, lift stations,
drainage structures and the like. The work shall include all excavation and
trenching, transportation and disposal of excavated materials, as well as
handling and storage, all necessary sheeting, shoring and protection of work,
subgrade preparations, pumping and dewatering as necessary or required,
protection of adjacent property, backfilling, construction of fills and
embankments and other appurtenant work as required for the construction.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.031 QUALITY ASSURANCE.
   Testing and inspection services as required by this subchapter shall be
provided by the contractor. Tests will include field-bearing pressure and
density tests for verifying the degree of compaction and excavation inspections
to determine the limits of unsuitable material to be removed.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.032 REFERENCES.
   (A)   American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) Publications:
      (1)   ASTM D698: Laboratory Compaction Characteristics of Soil Using
Standard Effort (12,400 ft-lbf/ft³ (600kN-m/m³));
      (2)   ASTM D1556: Density and Unit Weight of Soil in Place by the Sand
Cone Method;
      (3)   ASTM D2216: Laboratory Determination of Water (Moisture) Content of
Soil and Rock by Mass; and
      (4)   ASTM D6938: In-Place Density and Water Content of soil and Soil-
Aggregate by Nuclear Method.
   (B)   Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) Publication: Latest
edition of the Standard Specifications.
   (C)   Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standards, 29
C.F.R. part 1926.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.033 FILL MATERIALS.
   (A)   Granular or structural backfill material shall be as defined in §
211.02 (“B” Borrow) of the state’s Department of Transportation Standard
Specifications, latest edition. Maximum stone size shall not exceed one inch or
the maximum size recommended by the pipe manufacturer, whichever is smaller.
   (B)   Coarse aggregate shall be Class I- or Class II-size coarse aggregate
as specified by § 904.04 of the state’s Department of Transportation Standard
Specifications, latest edition.
   (C)   General fill material shall consist of natural soils such as clays,
sands and silts found in place, subject to the approval of the town. Natural
materials containing organics, gravels and rocks larger than two inches shall
not be used for general fill.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.034 EXCAVATION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Excavation work shall be performed in a safe and proper manner with
suitable precautions being taken against all hazards. Excavation work shall be
performed in accordance with all applicable provisions of the OSHA standards
for excavation safety.
      (2)   Excavations shall provide adequate working space and clearance for
the work to be performed, including for the installation and removal of
concrete forms.
      (3)   In no case shall excavation faces be undercut for extended
footings.
      (4)   Subgrade surfaces shall be clean and free of loose material of any
kind when concrete is placed thereon.
      (5)   All suitable excavated material meeting the requirements of general
fill may be used as backfill or in the formation of embankments or engineered
fill. All unsuitable material shall be removed from the site unless otherwise
allowed by the town. Stockpiles shall be graded and shaped for proper drainage
and shall be protected from erosion.
   (B)   Underground utilities. Utilities shall be located in areas of work
prior to the commencement of work. If utilities are to remain in place, then
adequate means of support and protection during earthwork operations shall be
provided. Should unknown or unidentified piping or other utilities be
encountered during excavation, the contractor shall consult the applicable
utilities immediately for directions. The contractor shall cooperate with the
town and other utility companies in keeping respective services and facilities
in operation. The contractor shall repair damaged utilities, both known and
unknown, to the satisfaction of the town utility owner.
   (C)   Sheeting and shoring. Except where banks are cut back on a stable
slope, an excavation for structures and trenches shall be properly sheeted,
braced and shored as necessary to prevent caving or sliding and to provide
protection for workers and the work. Sheeting, bracing and shoring shall be
designed and built to withstand all loads which might be caused by earth
movement or pressure and shall be rigid, maintaining its shape and position
under all circumstances. Sheeting and shoring shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the OSHA standards for excavation.
   (D)   Unsuitable bearing material. Materials encountered at design
elevations which are considered inadequate for suitable bearing shall be
removed and replaced. The removal shall be to a depth as required to reach
suitable bearing material. Fill material shall consist of either structural
backfill or concrete.
   (E)   Subgrade stabilization.
      (1)   Subgrades for concrete structures shall be firm, dense and
thoroughly compacted and consolidated, shall be free from mud, shall be
sufficiently stable so as to remain firm and intact under the feet of workers
and shall be reinforced with crushed stone or gravel per the structure’s
details.
      (2)   Subgrades for concrete structures which are otherwise solid but
become mucky on top due to construction operations shall be reinforced with
crushed stone or gravel.
   (F)   Dewatering.
      (1)   The contractor shall provide and maintain adequate dewatering
equipment to remove and dispose of all surface water and groundwater entering
excavations, trenches or other parts of the work. Each excavation shall be kept
dry during subgrade preparation and continually thereafter until the structure
to be built or the pipe to be installed therein is completed to the extent that
no damage from hydrostatic pressure, flotation or other cause will result.
      (2)   All excavations which extend down to or below the static
groundwater elevation shall be dewatered by lowering and maintaining the
groundwater surface beneath such excavations a distance of not less than 12
inches throughout the time the excavation remains open.
      (3)   Surface water shall be diverted or otherwise prevented from
entering excavated areas or trenches to the greatest extent practicable without
causing damage to adjacent property.
      (4)   Water shall be disposed of in such a manner as will not cause
injury to public or private property nor be a nuisance or menace to the public.
The contractor shall be responsible for any and all permits and approvals
thereof necessary for disposal of the water.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.035 BACKFILL AND EMBANKMENT.
   (A)   Materials. All material placed in fills and embankments shall meet the
requirements of general fill as previously defined. No rocks or stones shall be
placed within the upper 18 inches of any fill or embankment. Rocks or stones
within the allowable size limit may be incorporated in the remainder of fills
and embankments provided that they are distributed so that they do not
interfere with proper compaction, except that no rocks or stones shall be
placed in a fill area under structures.
   (B)   Placement.
      (1)   Backfill and fill materials shall be evenly placed adjacent to
structures, piping or conduit to the required elevations. Care shall be taken
to prevent the wedging action of backfill against structures or the
displacement of piping or conduit by carrying the material uniformly around the
structure, piping or conduit to approximately the same elevation in each lift.
      (2)   Where fill is required on both sides of a foundation or wall, the
fill shall be placed simultaneously on each side. Fill against building walls
shall not be placed until the first floor slab has been poured and set.
      (3)   Fill against other work shall be in a manner and at such time so as
not to endanger the stability or damage the work. No fill shall be placed
against water-bearing walls until they have been tested for watertightness.
      (4)   No fill shall be placed over snow or frozen material.
      (5)   Materials such as brush, hedge, roots, stumps, grass and other
organic matter shall not be incorporated or buried in the fill.
   (C)   Compaction.
      (1)   The compaction of backfill and embankment material shall be
accomplished by mechanical means such as vibratory plates or rollers.
      (2)   Compaction by jetting methods will not be performed unless
specifically allowed by the town. No backfill shall be deposited or compacted
in water.
      (3)   Backfill shall be placed in 12-inch lifts and compacted to not less
than 95% of maximum dry density as determined in accordance with ASTM D698
(Standard Proctor) up to the last 12 inches of fill. The final 12 inches of
fill shall be compacted to not less than 100% of maximum dry density as
determined in accordance with ASTM D698. Embankment fill shall be placed in
lifts and compacted to not less than 98% of maximum dry density. The moisture
content shall be within two percentage points of optimum. The contractor shall
demonstrate to the town that the proposed method and lift heights meet the
specified compaction at the beginning of the project.
      (4)   Granular fill under slabs shall be placed after the subgrades have
been leveled and cleared of all debris and immediately prior to the pouring of
the slab. Up to the last 12 inches of fill shall be placed in eight-inch
maximum, balanced lifts and each layer compacted to 95% of Standard Proctor
maximum dry density in accordance with ASTM D698. The final 12 inches of fill
shall be placed in six-inch maximum, balanced lifts, and each layer shall be
compacted to 100% Standard Proctor maximum dry density in accordance with ASTM
D698.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.036 COMPACTION TESTING.
   (A)   Sampling and testing. Sampling and testing shall be the responsibility
of the contractor. Tests shall be performed by an approved commercial testing
laboratory or with approved facilities furnished by the contractor. All results
shall be submitted to the town.
   (B)   Laboratory tests. Laboratory tests for moisture-density relations
shall be determined in accordance with ASTM D2216. A minimum of one test shall
be performed on each different type of material used for backfill.
   (C)   Field in-place density tests.
      (1)   The contractor shall perform a sufficient number of compaction
density tests to demonstrate that the required compaction requirements are
being met. In general, a minimum of one satisfactory compaction test shall be
performed for each cumulative lift length of 400 feet.
      (2)   Upon failure of a test, the lift shall be compacted again and
retested. Additional tests will be required if the first tests consistently
fail, if the material changes or if the contractor’s method of compaction
changes.
      (3)   Density tests shall be determined in accordance with ASTM D1556 or
ASTM D6938. When ASTM D6938 is used, the calibration curves shall be checked
and adjusted using only the sand cone method as per ASTM D1556. Calibration
checks of both density and moisture gages shall be made at the beginning of a
job and upon each different type of material encountered.
      (4)   Copies of calibration curves and the results of calibration tests
shall be furnished to the town.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
TRENCHING AND BACKFILLING FOR UTILITIES
§ 154.050 DESCRIPTION.
   This subchapter includes excavation and backfilling for all underground
electric lines, sewer lines, water lines, gas lines and other utilities.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.051 QUALITY ASSURANCE.
   Testing and inspection services as required by this subchapter shall be
provided by the contractor. Tests will include hand auger probing, field-
density tests for verifying the degree of compaction and excavation inspections
to determine the limits of unsuitable material to be removed.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.052 REFERENCES.
   (A)   American Society of Testing Materials (ASTM) Publications: See §
154.032 of this chapter;
   (B)   Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) Publication: Latest
edition of Standard Specifications;
   (C)   Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standards, 29
C.F.R. part 1926; and
   (D)   American Railway Engineering Association, Part 5: Pipelines.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.053 CARE OF EXISTING STRUCTURES AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   All gas, water, drainage or other pipes, poles, fences, sewers, wires,
conduits, manholes, buildings, structures and property in the proximity of any
excavation shall be supported and protected from damage by the contractor
during construction.
   (B)   Wherever sewer, gas, water, drainage or other pipes or conduits cross
the excavation, the contractor shall support said pipes and conduits without
damage to them and without interrupting their use during the progress of the
work.
   (C)   All property shall be thoroughly cleaned of all surplus materials,
earth and rubbish placed thereon by the contractor.
   (D)   Any damage to gas, water, drainage or other pipes, poles, fences,
sewers, wires, conduits, manholes, buildings, structures and property resulting
from the contractor’s work shall be promptly repaired by the contractor. The
quality of all such repair work shall be to the satisfaction of the town and
the owner of said utility or structure.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.054 EXISTING UNDERGROUND STRUCTURES AND UTILITIES.
   (A)   The contractor shall notify the appropriate utility companies at least
72 hours prior to the start of construction.
   (B)   The utility companies will locate any existing underground utilities
and structures within the site limits.
   (C)   The contractor, prior to the start of construction, shall verify the
location of any existing underground utilities and structures within the site
limits. It is the contractor’s responsibility to make any and all exploratory
investigations which may be necessary to verify or locate the utility pipes,
wires, structures and appurtenances of others.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.055 BACKFILL MATERIALS.
   (A)   Granular material, where required, shall comply with § 211.02 of the
INDOT Standard Specifications. Maximum stone size shall not exceed one inch or
the maximum size recommended by the pipe manufacturer, whichever is smaller.
   (B)   Backfill and bedding for trenches shall consist of the various
materials classified in this division (B) below as specified herein:
      (1)   Class I: Angular, six to 40 millimeters (one-fourth to one and one-
half inch) graded stone such as crushed stone. A No. 8 gravel possessing a
minimum 50% mechanical crush count and meeting the following nominal sizes and
percents passing will be considered an equivalent Class I material: 100%
passing a one-inch sieve; 75-95% passing a three- fourths-inch sieve, 40-70%
passing a one-half-inch sieve, and 0-15% passing a No. 4 sieve;
      (2)   Class II: Coarse sands and gravel-sand mixtures with a maximum
particle size of 40 millimeters (one and one-half inches), including variously-
graded sands and gravels containing small percentages of fine, generally
granular and non- cohesive, either wet or dry. Soil types GW, GP, SW and SP are
included in this class (Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT)
Classification for Structural Backfill);
      (3)   Class III: Fine sand and clay gravels, including fine sands, sand-
clay mixtures and gravel- clay mixtures. Soil types GM, GC, SM and SC (ASTM
D2487) are included in this class. These materials will not be accepted as pipe
bedding; or
      (4)   Class IV: Silt, silty clays and clays, including organic-clays and
silts of medium to high plasticity and liquid limits. Soil types MH, ML, CH and
CL (ASTM D2487) are included in this class. These materials will not be
accepted as pipe bedding.
   (C)   Crushed stone material shall be No. 53 complying with § 904.03 of the
INDOT Standard Specifications.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.056 PIPE MATERIALS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter and as shown on the plans, rigid
pipes and conduits shall include those made of steel, ductile iron, cast iron,
concrete and vitrified clay.
   (B)   Flexible and semi-rigid conduits and pipes shall include those made of
PVC, FRP, polyethylene and other materials as determined by the engineer.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.057 EXECUTION.
   All work shall conform to the requirements of all local, state and federal
agencies having jurisdiction and to the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.058 TRENCHING.
   (A)   Not more than 200 feet of trench shall be opened at any time, with not
more than 50 feet opened in advance of the completed pipe-laying operation.
   (B)   Surface encumbrances located so as to create a hazard to employees who
are involved in excavation work or in the vicinity thereof at any time during
operations shall be removed or made safe before the excavating is begun.
   (C)   During excavation, material satisfactory for backfilling shall be
stockpiled in an orderly manner at a distance from the banks of the trench that
is sufficient to avoid overloading and to prevent slides and cave-ins. Adequate
drainage shall be provided for the stockpiles and the surrounding areas by
means of ditches, dikes or other suitable methods. The stockpiles shall also be
protected from contamination with unsatisfactory excavated materials or other
materials which may destroy the quality and fitness of the suitable stockpiled
material.
   (D)   Grading shall be done as may be necessary to prevent surface water
from flowing into the excavation, and any water accumulating therein shall be
removed so that the stability of the bottom and sides of the excavation is
maintained. In wet trenches, dewatering equipment shall be operated ahead of
pipe laying and the water level kept below the pipe invert.
   (E)   Excavation work shall be performed in accordance with all applicable
provisions of the OSHA standards for trench and excavation safety and as
recommended by the pipe manufacturer.
   (F)   An excavation for manholes or similar structures shall be sufficient
to leave at least 12 inches clear between the outer-structure surfaces and the
face of the excavation or support members, and shall be of sufficient size to
permit the placement and removal of forms for the full length and width of
structure footings and foundations. When concrete is to be placed in an
excavated area, special care shall be taken not to disturb the bottom of the
excavation. Excavation to the final grade level shall not be made until just
before the concrete is to be placed.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.059 REMOVAL OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   As trenches are backfilled, the contractor shall remove all surplus
materials and regrade and leave clear, free and in good order all roadways and
sidewalks affected by the construction. During the progress of and until the
expiration of the guarantee period, he or she shall maintain in good and safe
conditions the surface of or any street over the trenches and promptly fill all
depressions over and adjacent to trenches caused by the settlement of
backfilling.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.060 PAVEMENT REMOVAL.
   Where necessary, the contractor shall remove existing street pavements,
driveways, curbs and sidewalks to the minimum width necessary to accommodate
the sewer construction work. Asphalt and concrete surfaces shall be saw-cut and
removed to straight lines parallel to the trench.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.061 PROTECTION AND CARE OF EXISTING FACILITIES.
   All poles and overhead utility wires, fences, sidewalks, curbs, signal
lights, mail boxes, road or street signs, culverts, buildings and other surface
structures shall be protected and preserved by the contractor and shall be
repaired, replaced or otherwise restored to a condition equal to or better than
they were in before the work was started. All water and gas mains and services,
sewers and sewer services, drains, petroleum pipes, buried electric, telephone,
television, telegraph and signal cables and conduits, manholes, stormwater
inlets, foundations and other subsurface structures shall be properly supported
and protected during the construction and left in a condition equal to or
better than they were in before the work started. Fire hydrants shall remain
accessible to Fire Department personnel at all times.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.062 STRUCTURES ENCOUNTERED.
   (A)   The contractor shall contact the owners of the various utilities or
facilities in the project area prior to the start of construction for the
location of the various utilities or facilities. The contractor shall take
necessary steps and actions to determine the exact location of underground
utilities and facilities, and shall exercise sufficient care during
construction so as to prevent damage to said utilities and facilities.
   (B)   During the course of construction, if it becomes necessary to relocate
any telephone cable or conduit, gas main or cable television or electric line,
then it shall be the responsibility of the utility company involved to make the
necessary relocation. However, the contractor shall assume all risk and
liability for any inconvenience, delay or damage sustained by him or her due to
any interference from said underground utilities or the operations of moving
them.
   (C)   Where existing sanitary and storm sewers exist which are in conflict
with the construction of the proposed pipe, the contractor shall relocate or
temporarily remove and reconnect said conflicting sewers. The contractor shall
be responsible for properly handling any flow in said sanitary or storm sewers
during his or her work. In either case, the sewer shall be returned to a
condition equal to or better than its condition at the start of construction.
   (D)   All culverts which are in conflict with the construction shall be
relocated or temporarily removed and relocated. The contractor shall be
responsible for properly handling any flow through said culverts during his or
her construction.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.063 COVERING ENDS.
   Before leaving the work for the night, during a storm or for any other
reason, care must be taken that the unfinished end of any pipe is securely
closed with a watertight plug. Any earth or other material that may find
entrance into the pipe through any such open end of an unplugged pipe shall be
removed.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.064 HIGHWAY OR RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Utility construction within the right-of-way of state highways or
railroads shall be installed in accordance with the specific requirements of
either the state’s Department of Transportation for highways or of the railroad
company.
   (B)   Utilities crossing highways or railroads shall involve boring and
casing the utility pipe unless specifically approved otherwise by the governing
agency and the town.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.065 STABILIZATION.
   If portions of the bottom of trenches or excavations consist of material
unstable to such a degree that it cannot adequately support the pipe or
structure, then the bottom shall be over-excavated and stabilized with granular
material.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.066 SHEETING AND BRACING.
   (A)   Sheeting and bracing shall be placed in the trench as may be necessary
for the safety of the work and the public, for the protection of the workers
and adjacent properties and for the proper installation of the work in
accordance with all applicable provisions of the OSHA standards. Sheeting and
bracing shall be progressively removed as the backfill is placed in such a
manner so as to prevent the caving in of the sides of the trench or excavation
and to prevent damage to the work.
   (B)   Sheeting which is placed for the protection of the public, adjacent
properties or structures shall not be removed until the backfill has been
placed and thoroughly compacted. While being removed, all vacancies left by
this sheeting shall be carefully filled with sand free from silt and rammed
into place, puddled or otherwise firmly compacted.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.067 PIPE BEDDING.
   (A)   Pipe bedding, haunching and initial backfill shall be completed as
shown on the details in Appendix A of this chapter and shall be dependent on
the pipe material and service. Pipe-embedment materials shall be carefully
placed around the pipe and compacted to ensure proper support. Each layer shall
be leveled and evenly distributed on both sides of the pipe so as not to
displace or damage the pipe and shall be adequately compacted.
   (B)   When Class I materials are used, compaction may be accomplished by
hand or mechanical tamping or by “walking” the material in.
   (C)   When Class II materials are used, compaction shall be accomplished
only by hand or mechanical tamping to a minimum 90% Standard Proctor density.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.068 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Areas not subject to vehicular traffic.
      (1)   For the purposes of this subchapter, trenches shall be considered
subject to vehicular traffic if any portion of the excavation is located within
four feet of a roadway or alley.
      (2)   The trench above the pipe embedment to the ground surface shall be
backfilled with Class I, II, III or IV materials. The contractor shall
consolidate the backfill by the back-and-forth travel of a suitable roller,
wheeled device or other similar heavy equipment until no further settlement is
obtained.
      (3)   Heavy equipment shall not be used until there is a cover of not
less than three feet over the pipe. To assist in promoting maximum settlement,
the surface of the trench shall be left in a slightly-rounded condition.
Periodic dressing of the backfill in the trench to promote drainage and safety
conditions shall be made during the course of the contract as required or
ordered by the engineer.
   (B)   Areas subject to vehicular traffic.
      (1)   The trench above the pipe embedment to the surface, where located
in areas subject to vehicular traffic, shall be backfilled with granular
backfill materials deposited in lifts of maximum height, or 12 inches, to
satisfy the compaction requirements. Each layer shall be thoroughly compacted
by mechanical tamping to not less than 95% density as determined by the
Standard Proctor test (ASTM D698).
      (2)   Granular backfill materials shall terminate at a point below
finished grade sufficient to allow for the placement of permanent surface
materials. Where the permanent surface is asphalt or concrete, the aggregate
base thickness shall be the specified thickness of the pavement material plus
six inches.
      (3)   For portions of the trench surface not subject to traffic, the
backfill material shall end six inches below the finished grade. This six-inch
depth shall be filled with good top soil and seeded in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (C)   Backfill prohibitions and requirements.
      (1)   No fill shall be placed against any manhole or other structure
until placed concrete has been allowed to cure for at least three days.
      (2)   Backfill shall be placed in such a manner that the structure will
not be damaged by shock from falling earth. The backfill material shall be
deposited and compacted as specified for final backfill, and shall be placed in
such a manner so as to prevent eccentric loading and excessive stress on the
structure.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.069 COMPACTION TESTING.
   (A)   Sampling and testing. Sampling and testing shall be the responsibility
of the contractor. Tests shall be performed by an approved commercial testing
laboratory or may be tested with approved facilities furnished by the
contractor.
   (B)   Laboratory tests. Laboratory tests for moisture-density relations
shall be determined in accordance with ASTM D2216. A minimum of one test shall
be performed on each different type of material used for backfill.
   (C)   Field in-place density tests.
      (1)   Shall be performed in sufficient numbers to ensure that the
specified compaction is being obtained. A minimum of one test per lift of
backfill for every 500 feet of installation shall be performed; and
      (2)   Shall be determined in accordance with ASTM D1556 or ASTM D6938.
Calibration checks of both the density and moisture gauges shall be made at the
beginning of a job and upon each different type of material encountered.
   (D)   Result submission. All test results shall be submitted to the town.
   (E)   Improper compaction. Trenches improperly compacted shall be reopened
and then refilled and compacted to the density specified. Field in-place
density tests shall also be repeated for improperly- compacted trenches that
are reopened, refilled and compacted again.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
SURFACE RESTORATION
§ 154.080 DESCRIPTION.
   Upon completion of all trenching, excavation, utility installation and
backfill operations, the contractor shall restore surfaces to a condition equal
to the original condition. Such restoration shall include pavement, concrete,
gravel or grassed areas as specified in this subchapter and as shown in the
details in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.081 REFERENCES.
   All references to the state’s Department of Transportation (INDOT) Standard
Specifications used in this subchapter shall mean the latest edition.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.082 ASPHALT PAVING.
   Where existing asphalt streets are cut or damaged, pavement shall be
replaced as shown in the details and as specified in state’s Department of
Transportation (INDOT) Standard Specifications.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.083 CONCRETE SURFACE REPLACEMENT.
   Where existing concrete pavement is damaged or cut, the contractor shall
replace such pavement with new concrete to the depths shown on the details.
Concrete shall be Class A as specified in state’s Department of Transportation
(INDOT) Standard Specifications of these standards.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.084 GRASSED AREAS.
   (A)   Damaged area treatment. All damaged areas not under pavement shall be
graded and seeded. Topsoil, either stockpiled or new, shall be placed to a
minimum depth of six inches before the placement of seed mixtures.
   (B)   Seed. The seed mixture shall be a commercially-available, residential
seed mixture consisting of a blend of perennial rye (30% of total), bluegrass
(40% of total) and Kentucky fescue (30% of total). Seed shall be applied at a
minimum rate of 220 lbs/acre.
   (C)   Fertilizer. Fertilizer shall be 12-12-12 and applied at a rate of 500
lbs/acre.
   (D)   Mulch. Mulch consisting of straw, alfalfa or soybean hay shall be
applied after seeding in order to assist the seed growth. Mulch shall be
applied in sufficient quantity to hold the seed in place.
   (E)   Limestone. Limestone shall be agricultural ground with a minimum total
neutralizing power of 90, and at least 40% shall pass a No. 100 sieve and 90%
shall pass a No. 8 sieve. Apply at 1,100 lbs/acre.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.085 EXECUTION.
   Surface restoration types and depths shall generally match the existing,
except that minimum depths shall be as detailed in this subchapter. The
contractor shall clean and prepare all paved surfaces before the placement of
new materials. Asphalt and concrete patching shall be applied only after all
required compaction efforts have been tested and approved by the town.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.086 ASPHALT PAVEMENT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The contractor shall apply prime and tack coats only when the ambient
temperature is above 50ºF and when the temperature has not been below 33ºF for
12 hours prior to the application. Prime or tack coats shall not be applied
when the base is wet or contains an excess of moisture. Hot asphaltic concrete
surface may be constructed when the ambient temperature is above 40ºF and the
base is dry.
   (B)   Place and spread bituminous base and surface mixtures with a
bituminous paver. In areas inaccessible to a paving machine, place and spread
bituminous mixtures by other acceptable mechanical or hand methods.
   (C)   Asphalt shall be properly wedged to existing pavement edges as
required for a smooth transition.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.087 SEEDING LIMITATIONS.
   Mulch seeding applications shall be performed only between February 1 and
October 16 unless otherwise approved by the town.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
GRAVITY SANITARY SEWERS
§ 154.100 DESCRIPTION.
   Work under this subchapter includes the installation and testing of gravity
sanitary sewer pipes, fittings and connections considered as public sewers. All
public sewers shall be eight inches in diameter or greater.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.101 POLYVINYL CHLORIDE PIPE (PVC).
   (A)   All PVC pipe 15 inches or less in diameter shall meet the requirements
of ASTM D3034, SDR-35. All PVC pipe greater than 15 inches in diameter shall
meet or exceed the requirements of ASTM F679. For diameters of 15 inches or
less, the pipe shall have a minimum cell classification of 12454-B, and for
diameters greater than 15 inches, the pipe shall have a minimum cell
classification of 12454-C, with all pipe having a minimum tensile strength of
7,000 psi as defined in ASTM D1784.
   (B)   All PVC pipe shall be tested in accordance with the Standard Method of
Test for “External Loading Properties of Plastic Pipe by Parallel Plate
Loading”, ASTM 2412. Minimum pipe stiffness shall be 46 psi.
   (C)   Pipe joints shall be push-on-type bells and spigots meeting the
requirements of ASTM D3212, “Joints for Drain and Sewer Plastic Pipes Using
Flexible Elastomeric Seals”. Elastomeric seals, or gaskets, shall meet the
requirements of ASTM F477.
   (D)   Pipe fittings and accessories shall have push- on joints and be of the
same material as the pipe as specified herein. The fittings and accessories
shall be manufactured by the pipe supplier.
   (E)   The pipes shall be legibly marked as to size, class, manufacturer and
ASTM designation.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.102 DUCTILE IRON PIPE.
   (A)   Ductile iron pipe shall be centrifugally cast and shall conform to the
latest requirements of ANSI/AWWA A21.51/C151 and ASTM A746. Ductile iron pipe
shall be Pressure Class 350 minimum for pipe up to 12 inches in diameter and
250 psi for pipe larger than 12 inches. The interior surface of the ductile
iron pipe and fittings shall be cement- lined in accordance with ANSI/AWWA
A21.4/C104.
   (B)   Pipe joints and accessories shall be of the type shown and shall
conform to the following requirements and standards:
      (1)   Push-on joints: ANSI A 21.11 (AWWA C111);
      (2)   Mechanical joints: ANSI A 21.11 (AWWA C111); and
      (3)   Flanged joints: ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.10, 250 psi working pressure
rating and drilled to ASA 125 lbs standards.
   (C)   (1)   Pipe fittings shall be short-body pattern designed in accordance
with AWWA/ANSI C110/A21.10.
      (2)   Fittings for pipes up to 12 inches in diameter shall be Pressure
Class 250, and pipes 14 inches and larger shall be Pressure Class 150.
   (D)   The class designations for the various classes of pipe and fittings,
the manufacturer’s name and the year of manufacture shall be cast onto fittings
in raised numerals and cast or stamped on the outside of each joint of pipe.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.103 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   Building service laterals shall be constructed of SDR-35 PVC (ASTM
D3034). Joints shall be a flexible-gasket push-on type. Building service
laterals shall be six inches in diameter minimum. A watertight PVC SDR-35
clean-out shall be provided for each building service lateral and shall be
located a minimum of three feet from the building being serviced. Modifications
to existing building sewers shall be as specified herein.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.104 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before installing piping, the contractor shall carefully verify the
location, depth, type of joint needed and size of the pipe to which a
connection is proposed. The contractor shall ensure that the lines can be run
as contemplated without interfering with footings, walls, other piping,
fixtures and the like.
   (B)   All sanitary sewers shall be installed within street rights-of-way
unless otherwise approved by the town.
   (C)   Sanitary sewers shall be located so as to provide a minimum horizontal
separation of ten feet from any existing or proposed water mains. Where sewers
cross perpendicular to water lines, a minimum of 18 inches of vertical
separation shall be maintained.
   (D)   All lengths of pipe shall be dimensioned accurately to measurements
established at the site and shall be worked into place without springing or
forcing. Cut sections of pipe shall be reamed to remove all burrs.
   (E)   The pipe shall be thoroughly cleaned before being laid and kept clean
during construction.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.105 PIPE LAYING.
   (A)   The laying of pipe on the prepared bedding material shall commence
from the lowest point, with the spigot ends pointing in the direction of flow.
All pipes shall be laid true to line and grade. They shall be carefully
centered so that when laid, they form a sewer with uniform invert.
   (B)   A pipe plug or bulkhead shall be used whenever pipe-laying operations
are not in progress as required to protect the pipe ends from foreign material.
   (C)   Before making pipe joints, all surfaces of the joints shall be clean
and dry. Lubricants, primers and adhesives shall be used in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommendations. The pipe shall then be placed, fitted and
adjoined so as to obtain a watertight joint. In the event that previously-laid
pipe is disturbed, it shall be removed and relaid.
   (D)   The contractor shall assure proper alignment and grade by the proper
use of lasers, batter boards, surveying instruments or other suitable means.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.106 LEAKAGE TESTS.
   (A)   Required leakage test. Prior to acceptance, all gravity sewers,
including service laterals, shall be tested and pass a test for leakage. The
contractor shall furnish all labor, materials and equipment required for making
the tests and the groundwater level determinations with no extra compensation
over and above the specified contract prices for the sewers. Testing shall not
be performed until backfilling and compaction are completed. All gravity sewers
shall pass a leakage test as further specified below.
   (B)   Low-pressure air test.
      (1)   A “Low-Pressure Air Test” conforming to the requirements of the
latest revisions of ASTM C828 and ASTM C924 shall be performed on all new
sanitary sewer pipe. Low-pressure air testing is used to determine the
existence of pipe leaks; however, it does not indicate water-leakage limits.
      (2)   Prior to the low-pressure air testing, all wyes, tees or end-of-
side sewer stubs shall be plugged with flexible-joint caps or an acceptable
alternative and securely fastened to withstand the internal test pressures.
Such plugs or caps shall be readily removable, and their removal shall provide
a socket suitable for making a flexible-jointed lateral connection or
extension.
      (3)   All plugs shall be securely braced to prevent a possible blowout
due to internal air pressure. One plug shall have an inlet tap or other
provision for connecting a hose to a portable air- supply source. Air hoses
shall be connected to an inlet tap and a portable air-supply source.
      (4)   Air equipment shall consist of all necessary valves and pressure
gages to control the rate of air flow into the test section and to enable the
monitoring of air pressure within the test section. A testing apparatus shall
also be equipped with a pressure-relief device to prevent the possibility of
loading the test section with the full capacity of the compressor.
      (5)   Air shall be slowly added to a test section until the pressure
inside the pipe is raised to 4.0 psig, plus an additional allowance for
groundwater level above the pipe, converted into pounds per square inch (psi).
However, in no case shall the maximum test pressure exceed 9.0 psi. After a
pressure of 4.0 psig plus groundwater allowance is obtained, the air supply
shall be regulated such that pressure is maintained between 3.5 and 4.0 psig
for a period of two minutes to allow the air temperature to stabilize in
equilibrium with the temperature of the pipe walls. The pressure will normally
drop slightly until equilibrium is obtained. During this period, all plugs
shall be checked with soap solution to detect any plug leak.
      (6)   (a)   After the two-minute air stabilization period, the air supply
shall be disconnected and the test pressure allowed to decrease. The time
required for the test pressure to drop from 3.5 psig to 2.5 psig is determined
by means of a stop watch, and this time interval is then compared with the
required time to determine if the rate of air loss is within the allowable
limit.
         (b)   The required time to arrive at the allowable air loss is
calculated by means of the following formula:
   T = 0.0850 DK
      Q
   Where:   T = time in seconds
         K = .000419 DL, but not less than 1.0
         Q = rate of loss (= 0.0015 cfm/sq. ft.
            of internal surface)
         L = length of pipe tested in feet
      (7)   Upon completion of the test, the bleeder valve shall be opened and
all air allowed to escape. Plugs shall not be removed until all air pressure in
the test section has been released.
      (8)   If the measured time interval for the pressure to drop from 3.5
psig to 2.5 psig is less than the required time as calculated, then the sewer
section shall be deemed to have failed the test. The contractor shall then
proceed to repair the pipe at his or her cost as necessary until the sewer
section passes the test.
      (9)   All testing shall be conducted in the presence of the town’s
representative.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.107 DEFLECTION TESTING.
   (A)   (1)   Deflection testing shall be performed by the contractor in the
presence of the town or its representative on all plastic pipes with nominal
inside diameters of six inches or greater. Deflection testing shall be
accomplished using calibrated television or photography or a properly-sized
“go, no go” mandrel or sewer ball.
      (2)   Deflections of no more than 5% based on the base inside the
diameters shown below will be allowed. Prior to acceptance, pipes having
deflections greater than 5% shall be excavated, rebedded, replaced and
successfully retested.
Allowable Deflection
Nominal Size, in. Base Inside Diameter, in. 5% Deflection Mandrel, in.
Allowable Deflection
Nominal Size, in. Base Inside Diameter, in. 5% Deflection Mandrel, in.
6                 5.742                     5.45
8                 7.665                     7.28
10                9.563                     9.08
12                11.361                    10.79
15                13.898                    13.20
18                16.976                    16.13
 
   (B)   The deflection test shall be performed not sooner than 30 days
following the installation of the pipe, including backfill. Prior to testing,
the pipeline shall be thoroughly cleaned.
   (C)   The contractor shall submit deflection test reports to the town within
30 days after the performance of each of said tests. A separate report shall be
submitted for each manhole-to-manhole sewer section. This report shall provide
all pertinent data regarding the test including, but not limited to, the date
of the test, the details of the testing device used, the diameter of the pipe,
the date that installation of the line was completed, including backfill, and
whether the line passed or failed the test.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
SANITARY SEWER FORCE MAINS
§ 154.120 DESCRIPTION.
   The work of this subchapter includes the supply of all materials, labor and
equipment required for the installation and testing of sanitary sewer force
mains. Force main piping inside of structures such as lift stations and valve
pits is specified under §§
154.165 through
154.175 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.121 QUALITY ASSURANCE.
   (A)   All materials shall be new and unused and, where possible, supplied by
a single manufacturer.
   (B)   All pipes and fittings shall be of similar materials as allowed by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.122 POLYVINYL CHLORIDE PIPE (PVC).
   (A)   Pipes. Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic pipe shall conform to ASTM
specification D2241, SDR-21 (200 psi). The material used shall conform to ASTM
specification D1784, “Standard Specification for Rigid Polyvinyl Chloride and
Chlorinated Polyvinyl Chloride Compounds”, Class 12454-B (PVC 1120).
   (B)   Pipe joints and gaskets.
      (1)   Joints for PVC and fittings shall be a bell-end, push-on type
meeting the requirements of ASTM D3139, “Joint for Plastic Pressure Pipe Using
Flexible Elastomeric Seals”. The joint shall be designed so as to provide for
the thermal expansion and contraction experienced with a total temperature
change of 75ºF in each joint of pipe. Details of the joint design and assembly
shall be in accordance with the joint manufacturer’s standard practice.
      (2)   Gaskets shall meet all applicable requirements of ANSI standard A-
21.11. Gasket dimensions shall be in accordance with the manufacturer’s
standard design dimensions and tolerances. The gasket shall be made of such
size and shape so as to provide, after assembly, an adequate compressive force
against the spigot and socket to effect a positive seal under all combinations
of joint and gasket tolerances.
      (3)   Gaskets shall be vulcanized natural or vulcanized synthetic rubber.
They shall be free of porous areas, foreign materials and visible defects.
   (C)   Pipe fittings. Fittings for PVC pipes shall be of the same material
and class as the pipe, with joints and gaskets to properly fit the PVC pipe.
All fittings of 22.5-degree bends and greater, including tees, shall be
properly anchored by concrete thrust blocks of sufficient size so as not to
exceed a soil pressure of two tons per square foot. This blocking shall be
installed prior to backfilling and testing.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.123 DUCTILE IRON PIPE.
   (A)   Pipes. All ductile iron pipe shall be manufactured in accordance with
C150/A21.50 and AWWA/ANSI/Typ C151/A21.51. Pipe shall be Pressure Class 350 for
pipes 12 inches and smaller and Pressure Class 250 for pipes 14 inches and
larger. All ductile iron pipes and fittings shall be cement mortar-lined and
seal-coated in accordance with AWWA/ANSI C104/A21.4.
   (B)   Pipe joints. Pipe joints shall be either push-on or mechanical joints
as shown on the drawings in Appendix A of this chapter and manufactured in
accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   Push-on joints: ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10 and ANSI/AWWA C111;
      (2)   Mechanical joints: ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10 and ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11;
and
      (3)   Gaskets: ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11.
   (C)   Pipe fittings. All ductile iron pipe fittings shall be manufactured in
accordance with ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10 and have a minimum pressure rating of 250
psi.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.124 HANDLING.
   Pipes and accessories shall be handled with care to avoid damage. Material
shall not be dropped or bumped against pipes or accessories already on the
ground or against any other object. Damaged pipe which cannot be repaired to
the town’s satisfaction shall be replaced at the contractor’s expense. The
interior of all pipes and accessories shall be kept free from dirt and other
foreign matter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.125 DIMENSIONS.
   The pipe shall be furnished in the longest manufactured lengths. Shorter or
cut lengths shall be used only where necessary to make closures. Where so shown
or required, branches, bends or other specials shall be made to standard
dimensions unless otherwise shown. All pipes shall be straight, true in form or
full diameter throughout and have deep and wide socket joints.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.126 PIPE LAYING.
   (A)   Deflection from a straight line or grade as required by horizontal or
vertical alignments or offsets shall be in accordance with the manufacturer’s
specifications.
   (B)   If the alignment requires deflections in excess of the allowable
deflection per joint, then special bends or a sufficient number of shorter
lengths of pipe shall be furnished to provide angular deflections within the
limit set forth.
   (C)   All pipe shall be laid and maintained to the required lines and grades
as indicated on the plans. Fittings shall be installed at the locations shown
on the plans.
   (D)   At times when work is not in progress, the open ends of pipes and
fittings shall be securely closed so that no trench water, earth or other
substance will enter the pipes or fittings.
   (E)   No pipe shall be laid in water or when the trench or weather
conditions are unsuitable for proper installation.
   (F)   When the proposed elevation of the force main conflicts with the
elevation of an existing gravity sewer, water main, gas main or other
structure, the force main shall be deepened so as to avoid said conflict.
   (G)   A pipe shall be laid with bell ends facing in the direction of the
laying. Pipe ends shall be clear of dirt and debris before the connection is
made.
   (H)   The cutting of pipe for installing valves or fittings shall be done in
a neat, professional manner without damage to the pipe or lining. The flame
cutting of pipes shall not be allowed.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.127 THRUST RESTRAINT.
   (A)   Thrust blocking or restraints shall be provided at all line
deflections greater than 22 degrees and as otherwise required to protect the
pipe joints from separation.
   (B)   Thrust blocks shall be sized and dimensioned as shown in Appendix A of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.128 HYDROSTATIC TESTING.
   Before acceptance by the town, a hydrostatic pressure test shall be
successfully performed on all new force mains as follows.
   (A)   The test shall include all force mains from the point of beginning or
the lift station to the point of termination. The test shall be performed after
the piping has been accepted as being ready for testing. Any concrete thrust
blocks shall have been in place for a period of at least ten days prior to the
test. The test shall be performed in the presence of the town’s representative.
   (B)   Water for testing must be furnished by the contractor. The contractor
shall furnish all necessary equipment, piping, pumps, fittings, gauges and
operating personnel to properly conduct the test.
   (C)   The system shall be subjected to a hydrostatic test pressure at 100
psi or 150% of the operating pressure, whichever is greater.
   (D)   The test procedure shall be as follows:
      (1)   The system shall be slowly filled with water. Air shall be expelled
from the pipe through air relief valves. If additional air vents are needed to
ensure that all air is expelled, then the contractor shall temporarily install
corporation cocks at the appropriate points. All air shall be expelled from the
force main prior to applying the test pressure.
      (2)   After the test pressure is first applied, a visual inspection of
the force main shall be made for leaks. All visible leaks shall be stopped by
repairing or replacing defective or damaged pipe, fittings or valves prior to
starting the official pressure test.
      (3)   After all visible leaks are stopped, the official test shall be
conducted for a period of at least two hours. During the test, the specified
test pressure shall not vary more than five psi.
      (4)   (a)   Pumps shall be equipped with a receiving water receptacle,
and the water entering the pipeline to make up leakage shall be carefully
measured and recorded. Pumping equipment shall include suitably-calibrated
pressure gauges. Leakage is defined as the volume of water which must be added
to the pipeline to maintain a pressure within 5 psi of the specified test
pressure.
         (b)   If the amount of make-up water entering the pipeline is less
than or equal to the allowable leakage as calculated by the following formula,
then the pipeline shall be accepted as having passed the leakage test
satisfactorily:
   L = SD (P)½
    133,200
   Where:   L = allowable leakage, gallons per hour
         S = length of pipeline tested, feet
         D = nominal diameter of pipe, inches
         P = average test pressure during test, pounds per square inch gauge
         (c)   All visible leaks shall be stopped by appropriate repairs or by
the replacement of defective or damaged materials regardless of the outcome of
the test.
   (E)   Should the line fail the test, then the pressure shall be maintained
while a thorough search is made of all possible locations of leakage or other
causes of pressure drop. When all such conditions are corrected, the pipeline
shall be given another official test, and this procedure shall be repeated
until satisfactory results are obtained.
   (F)   All leaks developing after the line has been tested which are made
evident by a showing of water on the ground surface shall be repaired to the
satisfaction of the town regardless of the results of the official test.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.129 IDENTIFICATION/LOCATION TAPE.
   (A)   Furnish and install identification/location tape over the centerline
of all PVC force main pipe.
   (B)   Location material shall be metallic- type tape such as Terra Tape
Detectable, as manufactured by Reef Industries, Inc., or an approved equal. The
tape shall be resistant to alkalis, acid and other destructive agents found in
soil. Tape width shall be a minimum of three inches and a maximum of six
inches, shall have a background color as specified in division (C) below and
shall be imprinted with black letters. Imprints shall be as specified in
division (C) below and shall repeat a minimum of once every two feet for the
entire length of tape.
   (C)   Tape background colors and imprints shall be as follows:
      (1)   Imprint: “Caution—Buried Sanitary Sewer Below”; and
      (2)   Background color: Green.
   (D)   Identification tape shall be installed over the centerline of all
buried mains in accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instructions.
The depth of bury shall be as recommended by the manufacturer.
   (E)   In all pipe installation, the identification/location tape shall be
looped into the manholes for connection to a locating device. The tape shall be
spliced together to provide a continuous strip from manhole to manhole.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
PRECAST CONCRETE STRUCTURES
§ 154.140 DESCRIPTION.
   The work of this subchapter includes the manufacturing and installation of
precast concrete structures including manholes, lift station structures, valve
vaults and other miscellaneous structures as detailed and specified herein.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.141 DELIVERY, STORAGE AND HANDLING.
   Precast concrete structures shall be delivered to the site complete and in
structurally- sound condition. The contractor shall take proper care in moving
the structures to prevent cracking or breaking or otherwise damaging the
structures.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.142 LOCATION.
   Sanitary sewer manholes shall be install at the end of each line segment, at
all changes in alignment or pipe size, at pipe intersections and at a maximum
of 400 feet of separation on straight runs.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.143 GENERAL PRODUCT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All precast structures to be used in a project shall be structurally
sound and free of defects.
   (B)   Any spalled concrete or voids shall be properly patched or repaired
using equivalent- strength grout and properly cured before placement.
   (C)   Structures showing excessive cracking or damage should be rejected and
replaced at the discretion of the town and at the expense of the contractor.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.144 CONCRETE STRENGTH.
   All concrete used in the manufacturing of precast structures shall have a
minimum compressive strength of 4,000 psi at 28 days.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.145 SEWER MANHOLES.
   (A)   All manholes for sanitary or storm sewers shall be made watertight and
be of a size and dimensions as shown on the plans in Appendix A of this
chapter.
   (B)   The base, riser sections, eccentric cone, flat slabs and adjustment
rings shall be constructed in accordance with ASTM C478. The joints between the
base, riser sections and the bottom joint of the eccentric cone shall be
tongue- and-groove type with a continuous rubber ring gasket conforming to ASTM
C443 or a preformed, flexible-plastic gasket-type joint sealant such as RUB’R-
NEK, as manufactured by K. T. Synder Company, Kent Seal or an equal. In
addition to the gasket, the joint shall be sealed on the exterior with an
approved mastic.
   (C)   The top of the eccentric cone shall be joined to the adjustment rings,
if necessary, using a preformed, flexible-plastic gasket-type joint sealant to
obtain a watertight fit.
   (D)   The manhole frame and cover shall be sealed to the adjustment rings or
cone section using a preformed, flexible-plastic gasket-type joint sealant.
   (E)   A watertight, flexible connection shall be made between the manhole
and the sewer pipes using elastomeric gaskets conforming to ASTM C923. Gaskets
shall be Kor-N-Seal, as manufactured by National Pollution Control Systems,
Inc., of Miford, New Hampshire, or an equal, and shall be installed in strict
conformance with the manufacturer’s instructions. The contractor shall apply a
minimum 4,000 psi quick- set, non-shrink grout to the pipe penetration from
inside the manhole.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.146 LIFT STATION STRUCTURES AND VALVE VAULTS.
   (A)   Lift station structures and valve vaults shall be made watertight and
be of a size and dimensions as shown on the plans in Appendix A of this
chapter.
   (B)   Precast structures shall meet all requirements of §
154.145 of this chapter except that flat-top slabs shall be used in place of
eccentric cones.
   (C)   Where required by the plans, access hatch frames as specified herein
shall be integrally cast into the top slab.
   (D)   All discharge manholes subject to sewer gases shall be protected by a
sprayable, solvent-free, two-component polymeric moisture/chemical barrier
specifically developed for the corrosive wastewater environment. The protective
barrier shall be Spectrashield by Spectra-tech, L.L.C., or an approved equal.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.147 FRAMES AND COVERS.
   (A)   Frames and covers shall be included for all manholes and utility
vaults and where otherwise shown on the plans in Appendix A of this chapter.
   (B)   Ferrous castings shall be manufactured and cast in the United States
by Neenah Foundry Company, Model R-1772 or an equal, and shall conform to ASTM
A48 Class 30. The covers and frames shall be of a design, type and weight
specified on the plans.
   (C)   (1)   Castings shall be of uniform quality and free from blowholes,
porosity, hard spots, shrinkage defects, cracks or other injurious defects.
      (2)   They shall be smooth and well-cleaned by shot blasting or other
approved methods. They shall be coated with high-grade bituminous asphalt
paint.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.148 MANHOLE STEPS.
   (A)   Steps shall be supplied for all manholes, valve vaults and utility
vaults. Steps shall be cast in the precast sections and properly aligned
throughout the manhole depth.
   (B)   Steps shall be made of copolymer polypropylene plastic and reinforced
with one-half- inch, grade 60 steel. Steps shall be able to resist a 1,500-
pound pullout force.
   (C)   Steps must comply with all applicable provisions of the OSHA
regulations.
   (D)   Manhole steps shall be Model PSI- PF, as manufactured by M.A.
Industries, Inc., of Peachtree, Georgia, or an equal.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.149 ACCESS HATCH.
   (A)   Access hatches. Where shown and required by the details in Appendix A
of this chapter, access hatches shall be provided for precast structures.
Hatches shall be either single- or double-door with a frame assembly fabricated
of aluminum and capable of withstanding a live load of 300 lbs/sq. ft. The
doors shall be equipped with heavy-forged brass hinges, stainless steel pins,
spring operators and an automatic hold-open bar with release handle which holds
the door open at 90 degrees. Each door shall be provided with a lifting handle.
   (B)   Safety grating.
      (1)   An aluminum safety grating shall be furnished integral with each
hatch to prevent falling when the main hatch lid is opened. The grating shall
be designed to withstand a minimum live load of 300 psf. Deflection shall not
exceed one-one hundred fiftieth (1/150) of the span.
      (2)   The design of the hatch must assure that the grate is closed prior
to the hatch doors being closed.
      (3)   Each grate shall be equipped with torsion rod lift assistance for
ease of operation, and a hold-open arm shall be included which will lock the
grate in the 90-degree position once opened.
      (4)   The opening arm shall be equipped with a controlled, confined
space-entry locking device which will prevent unauthorized entry to the
confined space. The safety grating shall be furnished by the same manufacturer
as the aluminum hatch to assure compatibility.
   (C)   Access frames.
      (1)   Access frames shall be sized as shown on the details in Appendix A
of this chapter. Where noted, sizing may be contingent upon recommendations by
equipment suppliers as required to provide for equipment removal.
      (2)   Access frames shall be accurately placed as an integral part of the
precast top-slab section.
      (3)   Access frames shall be protected from direct contact with the
concrete by means of a protective coating.
   (D)   Accepted types. Access hatches and frames shall be type “J” or “JD” as
manufactured by the Bilco Company, Series W1R and W2R as manufactured by
Halliday Products, or an equal.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.150 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Precast concrete structures shall be located as shown on the drawings
in Appendix A of this chapter.
   (B)   Excavation and backfill for precast structures shall be in accordance
with §§
154.030 through
154.036 of this chapter.
   (C)   Unless otherwise shown, the top of a manhole or other structure shall
be set at ground level or the top of pavement.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
LIFT STATION EQUIPMENT
§ 154.165 DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   Furnish and install all equipment for the lift station or stations,
including all structures, pumps, piping and controls as shown on the drawings
in Appendix A of this chapter and as described herein. A minimum of two pumps
shall be installed, with each capable of meeting the peak design flow as
required to provide 100% standby.
   (B)   The contractor shall be required to supply the pumps and control panel
from a single manufacturer.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.166 SUBMITTALS.
   The contractor shall be required to submit two copies each of the
manufacturer’s operation and maintenance manuals and the dimensional and
technical shop-drawing data to the town for all equipment supplied under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.167 ACCEPTABLE MANUFACTURERS.
   Lift station pumps shall be as manufactured by F.E. Myers.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.168 MATERIALS.
   (A)   Submersible non-clog pumps.
      (1)   The pumps shall be a submersible, non-clog type made of heavy cast
iron construction. The volute shall have smooth fluid passages capable of
passing a three-inch minimum solid sphere. A bronze wear ring shall be pressed
into the casing for guiding the impeller and to prevent corrosion. Wear rings
shall be held from rotating by stainless steel set screws.
      (2)   The pump impeller shall be of an enclosed, two-vane, non-clog type
made of cast iron and shall be properly balanced. Vane inlet tips shall be
rounded to prevent stringy materials from catching on the vanes. The impeller
shall be driven by a stainless steel shaft key and secured to the motor shaft
by a stainless steel lock screw and washer.
      (3)   The motor shall be protected by two mechanical seals mounted in
tandem with a seal chamber below the seals. Seal faces shall be made of carbon
and ceramic. A double electrode shall be mounted in the seal chamber to detect
water entering the chamber. Water in the chamber shall trigger an alarm
condition as specified in the control panel.
      (4)   The pump motor shall be of the sealed, submersible type. Motor
voltage shall be as available, and the horsepower shall be sized so as to
ensure a non-overloading condition along the entire pump-impeller curve. Stator
winding shall be of the open type with Class F insulation good for operating
temperatures of at least 300ºF. The winding housing shall be filled with a
dielectric oil which lubricates the bearings and seals.
      (5)   The pump motor shall have two heavy-duty ball bearings to support
the pump shaft and to take radial and thrust loads. Ball bearings shall be
designed for 50,000 hours B-10 life.
      (6)   A heat sensor thermostat shall be embedded in the winding and
connected in series with the motor-starter contact coil so as to stop the motor
upon high temperature. The thermostat shall reset automatically when the motor
cools to a safe operating temperature.
      (7)   Pumps shall be supplied complete with fiberglass or aluminum guide
rails and a cast iron base flange which allows for positive seating of the
pump.
   (B)   Lift station control panel.
      (1)   Pump station controller. The pump manufacturer shall furnish an
automatic pump station controller for the operation and control of the lift
station pumps. The control panel shall provide automatic alternation of a
duplex pump system and shall be complete with motor control, solid-state
alternator, convenience power supply, miscellaneous controls and the like. All
components shall be UL listed.
      (2)   Control and power wiring. The control and power wiring for the
pumps and level sensors shall be arranged to extend through two separate
conduits to the wet well. Conduits shall be properly sealed to protect the
panel against explosive-type gases which may exist in the wet well.
      (3)   Panel enclosure. The enclosure shall be NEMA 4X with drip shield,
14- gauge stainless steel minimum with welded construction. The enclosure shall
have an outer weather door, a hinged inner “operator’s door” and mounting
hardware. All equipment, controls and the like shall be located inside of the
enclosure. Selector switches, pilot lights and the like shall be located on a
dead front swing-out panel, or operator’s door, located behind an outside
weather door. All other equipment, exposed wiring and the like shall be located
behind the swing-out panel.
      (4)   Controller features.
         (a)   The operating sequence:
            1.   When a pump is called for by the water level in the wet well,
the control unit shall send a start signal to the appropriate pump and verify
operation with the starter auxiliary contact. Appropriate verification time
delays shall be included;
            2.   When the wet well level continues to rise, the second pump
shall start;
            3.   When the wet well level reaches low level, the pump or pumps
shall stop and pump alternation shall occur; and
            4.   When the pump-run verification signal is not received within
the appropriate time period, the alternator shall deselect the failed pump,
select the next pump, remove the failed pump from the sequence and illuminate a
pump-fail light. The failed pump shall remain out-of-service and the pump-fail
light shall remain illuminated until manually reset.
         (b)   Circuit breakers with over-current protection for each of two
pumps and the convenience power transformer. Circuit breakers shall be a
magnetic-hydraulic or a thermal-magnetic, ambient temperature compensated-type
calibrated and factory sealed with the proper trip settings. The devices shall
have a minimum interrupting rating of 10,000 RMS symmetrical;
         (c)   Magnetic, full- voltage starters for each of two pumps. The
starter overload relays, one per phase, shall be an ambient-compensated, quick-
trip type. Overload elements shall be matched to the pump motor
characteristics;
         (d)   A convenience and control power transformer with a 120/240 volt
secondary where required due to three-phase service. Said transformer shall be
supplied in the panel. Circuit breakers shall be supplied for the transformer,
pump controls, condensate heater and GFI receptacle. Circuit breakers shall be
accessible without opening the dead front “operator’s door”;
         (e)   A GFI-type duplex convenience receptacle, 120V or 20A. Said
convenience receptacle shall be provided at the lift station outside of the
control panel as shown on the details in Appendix A of this chapter;
         (f)   A low-volt power supply and interface system. Said supply and
system shall be suitable for operation of the float switches in an
intrinsically, or explosion-proof, safe mode;
         (g)   An adjustable, thermostatically-controlled heater. Said heater
shall provide condensate protection inside the enclosure;
         (h)   Two-pump automatic electronic alternator. Said alternator will
alternate the pumps with each pump down-cycle;
         (i)   Running-time meters for each pump. The meters shall indicate the
number of hours of pump operation. The meters shall be enclosed in a dustproof
and moistureproof, molded-plastic case. The flush-mounted dial shall register
in hours and tenths of hours up to 999.9 hours before repeating;
         (j)   The control panel. Said control panel shall provide status and
alarm indications for each pump, namely a “pump running” light (green), a “pump
failed” light (red), “seal failure” and “high wet well level”. In addition, the
panel shall have a Hand-Off-Auto selector switch for each pump to control the
mode of pump operation and to time modules as required for the pump-failed
feature; and
         (k)   The local alarm system. Said system shall consist of an alarm
light and shall signal any of the alarm conditions in division (B)(4)(j) above.
The light shall be a weatherproof, high-intensity strobe fixture with a red
lexan globe and a metal globe guard mounted on top of the enclosure.
   (C)   Level sensors.
      (1)   The level sensors shall consist of weighted floats with mercury
contacts rated for low-volt operation at milliwatt levels. Each level sensor
shall be furnished complete with sufficient cable length to run to the terminal
box below the pump station controller and to leave slack for future level
adjustments;
      (2)   Floats shall meet the requirements for Class 1, Division 1, Groups
C and D and be intrinsically safe for installation in an explosion-hazard
environment; and
      (3)   Furnish a stainless steel bracket mounted in the hatch opening for
hanging the sensor cables.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.169 LIFT STATION PIPING.
   (A)   (1)   Interior lift station and valve pit piping shall be flanged
ductile iron which is centrifugally cast and in conformance with the latest
revisions of AWWA/ANSI C150/A21.50 and AWWA/ANSI C151/A21.51.
      (2)   The interior surface of the pipe shall be cement lined and seal
coated in accordance with AWWA/ANSI C104/A21.4. Pipe shall be Pressure Class
250 minimum.
   (B)   Flanges shall be of 250 psi working pressured and drilled to ASA 125
pounds standards, and they shall meet the requirements of AWWA/ANSI C111/21.10.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.170 VALVES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   All valves shall be furnished with an exterior-finish coating the
same as the adjacent piping system to which they are connected or as approved
by the town;
      (2)   Where required for the satisfactory operation of valves, provide
extension stems, stem guides, cast iron valve and curb boxes, floor boxes and
other valve appurtenances; and
      (3)   Tee wrench operators shall be provided as required for proper
operation.
   (B)   Plug valves.
      (1)   Plug valves shall be of the non-lubricated, resilient-seated,
eccentric type.
      (2)   All plug valves shall be of the drip-tight-closing, resilient-faced
plug type. Port areas shall be equal to at least 80% of the nominal-size pipe
area. Valve bodies, bonnets and plugs shall be constructed of cast iron meeting
the requirements of ASTM A126 Class B.
      (3)   Valves shall be rated for 175 psi up to 12 inches and 150 psi for
valves of 14 inches and larger. An adjustable close-position stop shall be
provided for field adjustment. The seat end and standard flow direction shall
be cast on the valve body.
      (4)   All shaft seals shall be replaceable without disassembling the
valve and while the valve is under system-operating pressure.
      (5)   The plug shall be of a one- piece design with a precision-molded,
resilient facing. The resilient seating surface shall not be in the flow-way
pattern when the valve is in the open position. The body seating surface shall
be welded nickel overlay containing a minimum of 90% nickel.
      (6)   All valves and connections shall be ANSI Class 125 flanges.
      (7)   Valves shall be Series 5000 as manufactured by Val-Matic Valve &
Mfg. Corp., Series 100 as manufactured by Dezurik or an equal.
   (C)   Rubber flapper swing-check valves.
      (1)   Swing-check valves shall have a cast iron body and cover meeting
the requirements of ASTM A126 Class B. The valve body shall have full flow
equal to the nominal pipe diameter at any point through the valve. Valves shall
be designed for a 175 psi-minimum working pressure. The check valve end
sections shall be ANSI Class 125 flanges.
      (2)   The valve seating surface shall be on a 45-degree angle to minimize
disc travel. The disc shall be of one-piece construction and precision molded
with an integral O-ring-type sealing surface. The disc shall be made of Buna-
N and have a non-slam closing characteristic by means of a 35-degree disc
stroke and disc return action.
      (3)   The check valve shall have backflow capabilities by means of a
screw-type backflow actuator.
      (4)   The interior of the valve shall be coated with an epoxy suitable
for potable water.
      (5)   Rubber flapper swing-check valves shall be as manufactured by Val-
Matic Valve and Manufacturing Corp. or an equal.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.171 FENCING.
   (A)   Chain link fencing. Chain link fencing shall be provided around the
lift station and valve pit. The fence height shall be six feet and include
three strands of barbed wire. The fence shall include a continuous top rail,
bottom tension wire and post-bracing assemblies at all gate posts, end posts
and corner posts.
   (B)   Posts and gate frames. All posts shall be tubular and of the nominal
diameters specified in division (D) below or in other shapes with equal
properties. All post rails and gate frames shall be made of Schedule 40 or
greater galvanized steel pipe.
   (C)   Fence fabric.
      (1)   Fence fabric shall be a two- inch mesh of nine-gauge, medium carbon
steel wire. The fabric shall be woven as one piece to the heights shown, and
shall have the salvage edges twisted and barbed.
      (2)   The fabric finish shall be 2.0 ounce zinc per square foot complying
with ASTM A392 Class II, coated after weaving, or 0.40 ounce aluminum per
square foot complying with ASTM A491.
   (D)   Posts, rails and braces.
      (1)   The top rail shall be one and one-fourth-inch nominal I.D. Schedule
40 at 2.27 pounds per foot.
      (2)   The line posts shall be two- inch Schedule 40 at 3.65 pounds per
foot.
      (3)   The terminal and straining posts shall be two and one-half-inch
nominal I.D. Schedule 40 at 5.79 pounds per foot.
      (4)   The gate posts shall be sized to meet the following:
         (a)   Two and one-half- inch nominal I.D. Schedule 40 at 5.79 pounds
per foot for gate leaves up to six feet wide; or
         (b)   Three and one-half- inch nominal I.D. Schedule 40 at 9.11 pounds
per foot for gate leaves from seven to 13 feet wide.
      (5)   The tension wire shall be seven-gage, coiled spring wire with a
minimum tensile strength of 80,000 psi, and it shall be galvanized.
   (E)   Gates. Gates shall be of the same height and fabric as the fence with
frames fabricated from one and one-half-inch nominal I.D. Schedule 40 at 2.72
pounds per foot and shall be adequately braced with all corners electrically
welded. Gates shall be a swing type, complete with frames, latches, stops,
keepers, fabric, braces, pad locks and three strands of barbed wire. Gate
leaves shall have intermediate members and diagonal truss rods as required for
rigid construction.
   (F)   Accessories. Fences shall come complete with all necessary hardware
such as tension bars, tension bands, brace bands, clamps, gate post caps, nuts
and bolts. Gate hardware shall consist of bottom-corner pivot hinge, upper
hinge, latch fork with lock keeper and guide, fork catch, stop and hold-open
and, for double-leaf units, plunger bar and catch.
   (G)   Concrete. Concrete for setting posts in the ground shall be as
specified in applicable state Building Codes.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.172 STANDBY POWER GENERATOR.
   (A)   As part of the lift station equipment, the contractor shall provide a
permanently- mounted standby diesel generator sized as required to operate the
lift station pumps. The generator shall be as manufactured by Kohler Power
Systems.
   (B)   (1)   The generator engine shall be four-cycle, four- or six-cylinder
and radiator and fan cooled.
      (2)   The engine shall be cooled using a skid-mounted, closed-loop
radiator, fan and coolant pump. It shall use a 50/50 water/ethylene glycol
mixer for coolant.
   (C)   A diesel engine generator system shall be equipped with necessary
operating accessories such as a radiator, fan, air cleaners, lubricating oil
pump, fuel-transfer pump, fuel- injection pump, jacket water pump, governor,
charging generator, alternating current generator, exciter regulator, engine
block heater and battery charger.
   (D)   The engine fuel system shall be designed for operation for No. 2
diesel fuel. It shall have a secondary fuel filter, water separator, fuel-
shutoff solenoid valve and fuel pump.
   (E)   The generator set shall be mounted on a steel base through vibration-
isolation springs. The radiator coolant heater shall be supplied to maintain
proper coolant temperature for quick- starting of the engine.
   (F)   The engine generator shall be controlled through microprocessor-based
controls. The controls shall include automatic and manual starting and
monitoring and control functions. The controller shall be Decision Maker 3+ as
manufactured by Kohler.
   (G)   The generator shall be supplied complete with weatherproof housing,
12-volt battery, float-type battery charger, block heater and integrated fuel
storage tank sized to provide a minimum of eight hours of operating fuel.
   (H)   The generator shall also include a cord and male/female receptacle
plugs for connecting the generator to the transfer switch as shown on drawing
number 11 in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.173 LIFT STATION INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Lift station precast structures shall be placed on a level,
undisturbed subgrade. Before being put into operation, the structures shall be
inspected for leakage. All piping shall be plumbed straight either vertical or
horizontal as required.
   (B)   Upon installation of the pumps, the manufacturer or his or her
representative shall provide start-up and testing services to ensure proper
installation and operation of the lift station pumps and controls. The start-up
services shall be coordinated with the town and be witnessed by appropriate
town personnel.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.174 FENCE POSTS.
   (A)   Posts placed in the ground shall be set vertically in concrete as
detailed in the drawings in Appendix A of this chapter.
   (B)   Line posts shall be spaced at not more than ten-foot centers. Corner
posts shall be set at each horizontal angle point of ten degrees or more.
   (C)   (1)   The fabric shall not be erected until after five days from the
time of setting the posts in concrete. The fabric shall be pulled rigid and
taut and installed on the security side of the fence. Approximately one inch
shall be left between the finish grade and bottom salvage.
      (2)   The fabric shall be fastened to the line posts with clips or bands
spaced at approximately 14 inches apart and to the top and bottom rails with
bands or tie wires at approximately 24-inch intervals. The fabric shall be
fastened to terminal posts using a tension bar with tension bands spaced 12
inches apart.
   (D)   A two-foot strip of crushed stone on a polyethylene film shall be
added along the fence line for weed control.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.175 GENERATOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The generator shall be installed on a four-inch thick concrete slab
near the lift station electrical panels. The concrete pad shall be sized so as
to include access to the controller and to other maintenance-related parts.
   (B)   The manufacturer or his or her representative shall provide start-up
and testing services to ensure proper installation and operation of the
generator. The start-up services shall be coordinated with the town and be
witnessed by appropriate town personnel.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any construction, enlargement, alteration, repair or improvement which is
made in violation of the existing Construction Standards herein shall be a
violation, and each such day that the violation continues shall be considered a
separate violation. The penalty for each violation shall be a fine not to
exceed $1,000 per day. Any such fine shall be payable to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
APPENDIX A: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS, STANDARD DETAILS
DRAWING 1. SANITARY SEWER BEDDING DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1107.png]
 
DRAWING 2. PAVEMENT REPLACEMENT DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1109.png]
 
DRAWING 3. HIGHWAY BORE DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1111.png]
 
DRAWING 4. STANDARD SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1113.png]
 
DRAWING 5. DROP MANHOLE DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1115.png]
 
DRAWING 6. INSIDE DROP MANHOLE DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1117.png]
 
DRAWING 7. SANITARY MANHOLE OVER EXISTING SANITARY SEWER DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1119.png]
 
DRAWING 8. STANDARD SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE FRAME AND COVER DETAILS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1121.png]
 
DRAWING 9. ADJUSTING RINGS DETAILS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1123.png]
 
DRAWING 10. SERVICE CONNECTION FOR SHALLOW SEWERS (LESS THAN 15 FEET DEEP)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1125.png]
 
DRAWING 11. CLEANOUT DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1127.png]
 
DRAWING 12. MINIMUM CROSSOVER AND SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SEWER DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1129.png]
 
DRAWING 13. REDUCER CAP FOR PRE-CAST MANHOLE SECTIONS DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1131.png]
 
DRAWING 14. LIFT STATION PLAN VIEW DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1133.png]
 
DRAWING 15. LIFT STATION SECTION VIEW DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1135.png]
 
DRAWING 16. AIR/VACUUM RELEASE VALVE AND VAULT DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1137.png]
 
DRAWING 17. ELECTRICAL CONTROL PANEL DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1139.png]
 
DRAWING 18. FORCE MAIN THRUST BLOCKING DETAILS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1141.png]
 
DRAWING 19. LIFT STATION FENCING DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c505049eae3469b3a8e38f45ba0356807dfb04d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1143.png]
 
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-6-2010)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Authority and jurisdiction
   
155.004   Interpretation and provision conflicts
   
155.005   Saving provision
   
155.006   Amendments
   
155.007   Resubdivision of land
   
155.008   Vacation
   
155.009   Variances
   
155.010   Enforcement and violations
   
155.011   Definitions
Submission of Plats
   
155.025   Required procedure
   
155.026   Advisory meeting with Administrator
   
155.027   Application procedure for subdivisions
   
155.028   Major subdivisions
   
155.029   Minor subdivisions
Minimum Standards for Improvements
   
155.040   General improvements
   
155.041   Plats crossing municipal boundaries
   
155.042   Subdivision name
   
155.043   Suitability of land for subdivision development
   
155.044   Monuments
   
155.045   Preservation of natural features
   
155.046   Public uses
   
155.047   Sidewalks
   
155.048   Utilities
   
155.049   Water supply improvements
   
155.050   Sanitary sewer improvements
Lot Improvements
   
155.065   General requirements
   
155.066   Lot arrangement
   
155.067   Lot dimensions
   
155.068   Building line setback
   
155.069   Double-frontage lots and access to lots
   
155.070   Lot drainage
   
155.071   Debris and waste
   
155.072   Fencing
   
155.073   Water bodies and watercourses
   
155.074   Flood hazards
Street Improvements
   
155.085   General requirements
   
155.086   Topography and arrangement
   
155.087   Street extensions
   
155.088   Dedication of right-of-way for new streets
   
155.089   Dedication of right-of-way for existing streets
   
155.090   Street grades and elevations
   
155.091   Intersections
   
155.092   Blocks
   
155.093   Dead ends and cul-de-sacs
   
155.094   Street names
   
155.095   Private streets and reserve strips
   
155.096   Access to collector streets
   
155.097   Access to primary arterials
   
155.098   Street regulatory signs
   
155.099   Railroads and limited access highways
   
155.100   Design standards for streets
Drainage and Storm Sewer Improvements
   
155.115   General requirements
   
155.116   Nature of stormwater facilities
   
155.117   Dedication of drainage easements
Assurance for Completion of Improvements
   
155.130   Completion of improvements
   
155.131   Posting of bonds
   
155.132   Inspection
   
155.133   Acceptance of construction
   
155.134   Release or reduction of performance bond
   
155.135   Failure to complete public improvements
Documents
   
155.150   Sketch plans
   
155.151   Preliminary plat
   
155.152   Construction plans
   
155.153   Final subdivision plat
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and cited as the subdivision regulations of
the town.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of these regulations is to protect and promote the public
health, safety and general welfare for the town and to provide for:
   (A)   Guidance for future growth and development in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and related policies;
   (B)   Protection of the character and the social and economic stability of
all parts of the area, and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development
of all parts;
   (C)   Protection and conservation of the value of land, buildings and other
improvements upon the land, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses of
land and buildings;
   (D)   Guidance of public and private policy and action in order to assure
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
drainage and other public requirements and facilities; and
   (E)   Establishment of reasonable standards of design and minimum
requirements for the creation, installation and improvement of physical
facilities which are, or which will be, maintained for the benefit of the
general public.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.003 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter, enacted pursuant to the state’s home rule and planning
enabling legislation, I.C. 36-1-3-4 and I.C. 36-7-4-700, as amended, authorizes
the town’s Plan Commission to review and approve or disapprove plats for
subdivision within the jurisdiction of the town which show lots, blocks or
sites with or without new streets or highways. With regard to this chapter,
jurisdiction shall include the corporate limits and such other areas as may be
included in the Comprehensive Plan of the town and as may be amended by
subsequent annexation. This authority extends to the development or
redevelopment of undeveloped portions of previously-recorded plats.
   (B)   No improvement location permit, building permit or certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for any parcel or plat of land which was created by
subdivision after the effective date of, and not in conformance with, the
provisions of this chapter’s regulations, and no excavation of land or
construction of any public or private improvements shall take place or be
commenced except in conformance with the regulations contained herein and
including the Construction Standards adopted by the town.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.004 INTERPRETATION AND PROVISION CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Public provision conflicts. This chapter is not intended to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute or other
provision of law. Where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other provision of this chapter or by any
other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever
provision is more restrictive or imposes higher standards shall control.
   (C)   Private provision conflicts.
      (1)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or
any other private agreement or restriction provided that where the provisions
of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations
than such easement, covenant or other private agreement or restriction, the
requirements of this chapter shall govern.
      (2)   Where the provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement
or restriction impose duties and obligations which are more restrictive or
impose higher standards than the requirements of this chapter or the
determinations of the Commission in approving a subdivision or enforcing this
chapter, and where such private provisions are not inconsistent with this
chapter or the determinations thereunder, such private provisions shall be
operative and supplemental to this chapter and the determinations made
thereunder.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.005 SAVING PROVISION.
   This chapter shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under
or by virtue of prior-existing subdivision regulations, as discontinuing,
abating, modifying or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue, as
affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, as waiving any
right of the town under any section or provision existing at the time of
adoption of this chapter or as vacating or annulling any rights obtained by any
person, firm or corporation by lawful action of the town except as shall be
expressly provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.006 AMENDMENTS.
   For the purpose of protecting and promoting the public health, safety and
general welfare, the town may from time to time amend the provisions imposed by
this chapter on recommendation from the Commission. Public hearings on all
proposed amendments shall be held by the Commission in the manner prescribed by
law.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.007 RESUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   (A)   Procedure for resubdivision. For any change in a map of an approved or
recorded subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on
such map, any area reserved thereon for public use or any lot line, or if it
affects any map or plan legally reached prior to the adoption of any
regulations controlling subdivisions, then such parcel shall be approved by the
Commission by the same procedure, rules and regulations as for a subdivision.
   (B)   Procedure for subdivisions where future resubdivision is indicated.
Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or
more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are indications that
such lots will eventually be resubdivided into smaller building sites, the
Commission may require that such parcel of land allow for the future opening of
streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for
the future opening and extension of such streets may be made a requirement of
the plat.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.008 VACATION.
   Any recorded plat or part thereof may be vacated only in accordance with
I.C. 36-7-3 as amended in 1982, 1983 and 1986.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.009 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Where the Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or practical
difficulties may result from strict compliance with this chapter or that the
purposes of this chapter may be served to a greater extent by an alternative
proposal, it may approve variances to these subdivision regulations so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured provided that
such variance shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
this chapter, and further provided that the Commission shall not approve
variances unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it
in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare or injurious to other property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, would result
if the strict letter of this chapter is carried out;
      (4)   The variance will not in any manner vary the provisions of the
zoning ordinance or the Comprehensive Plan as interpreted by the Commission or
their agents; and
      (5)   Where the variance impacts on the design and construction of public
facilities, all appropriate public agencies have been given ample time to
comment in writing to the Commission; nothing herein shall be construed as
altering or conflicting with the powers and duties of the Board of Zoning
Appeals pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-900, as currently amended. No authority to
modify shall exist in the Commission if the appropriate participating
jurisdiction disapproves of such modification by writing.
   (B)   In approving variances, the Plan Commission may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in writing by the
subdivider at the time when the sketch plat is filed for the consideration of
the Commission. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the application
and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.010 ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the Commission to enforce this
chapter and to bring any violations or lack of compliance to the attention of
the Town Attorney.
      (1)   No owner nor agent of the owner of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
such subdivision has been approved by the Commission in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and filed with the county’s Recorder.
      (2)   The division of any lot or parcel of land into a subdivision, as
defined in this chapter, by the use of metes and bounds description for the
purpose of sale, transfer or lease resulting in the creation of one or more new
building sites shall not be permitted. All such described divisions shall be
subject to all of the appropriate requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   No improvement location permit or building permit required under
the Uniform Building Code, the zoning ordinance or this chapter shall be issued
on any property subject to this chapter until the provisions of this chapter
have been complied with.
   (B)   Restraining provisions.
      (1)   Any land within the participating jurisdictions which is subdivided
in violation of the terms of this chapter after the effective date hereof is
hereby declared to be a common nuisance, which may be restrained, enjoined or
abated in any appropriate action or proceeding.
      (2)   The Commission may institute an injunction suit requesting that an
individual or a governmental unit be directed to remove a structure erected in
violation of this chapter or making the same comply with its terms. If the
Commission is successful in its suit, then the respondent shall bear the costs
of the action.
      (3)   The Commission may institute a suit for mandatory injunction
requesting that an individual or a governmental unit be directed, where such
individual or governmental unit has violated any provisions of this chapter, to
comply with the provisions of this chapter. If the Commission is successful in
its suit, then the respondent shall pay the Commission’s reasonable attorney
fees and all costs related to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.011 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning. Throughout, the word “herein”
means “in these regulations” and the word “regulations” means “these
regulations”, a “person” includes a corporation, partnership or incorporated
association of persons such as a club, “shall” is always mandatory and “used”
or “occupied” as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include
the words “intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied”.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The officer delegated the responsibility for administering
this chapter or appointed by the Plan Commission. ADMINISTRATOR shall be
construed to include those planning staff members working under the direction
of the administrator in the exercise of his or her responsibilities in regard
to the processing of these subdivision regulations.
   ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION. A plan commission serving a single local
government jurisdiction established as defined under I.C. 36-7-1-2, as amended.
   ALLEY. A public or private vehicular right-of-way primarily designed to
serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose
principal frontage is on some other street.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   ARTERIAL. Either a primary arterial or a secondary arterial as defined in
this section.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways or
boundary lines of municipalities.
   BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the Plan Commission. All BONDS shall be approved by the Commission wherever
a BOND is required by this chapter.
   BUILDING. Any roofed structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure
of persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind.
   BUILDING CODE. The town ordinance or group of ordinances establishing and
controlling the standards for constructing buildings, utilities, mechanical
equipment and all forms of structures and permanent installations within the
town and related matters.
   BUILDING SITE. An area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation or other means for erecting pads or foundations for
buildings.
   CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A community sewer system, including the collection
and treatment facilities, established by the developer to serve a new
subdivision in an outlying or generally-rural area.
   CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A private water company formed by a developer to serve
a new community development in an outlying or generally-rural area. It includes
water treatment and distribution facilities.
   CLASSIFICATION OF STREETS. For the purpose of providing for the development
of the streets, highways, roads and rights-of-way in the governmental unit and
for their future improvement, reconstruction, realignment and necessary
widening, including provisions for curbs and sidewalks, each existing street,
highway, road and right-of-way and those located on approved and filed plats
have been designated in the Comprehensive Plan and classified therein. The
CLASSIFICATION of each street, highway, road and right-of-way is based upon its
location in the respective zoning districts, its present and estimated future
traffic volume and its relative importance and function as specified in the
Comprehensive Plan.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street intended to move traffic from local streets to
secondary arterials. A COLLECTOR STREET serves a neighborhood or large
subdivision and should be designed so that no residential properties face onto
it and no driveway access to it is permitted unless the property is to be in
multi-family use for four or more dwelling units.
   COMMISSION. The Advisory Plan Commission, as referred to herein and as
appointed in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Inclusive physical, social and economic plans and
policies in graphic and verbal statement forms for the development of the town
which are prepared and adopted by the Commission pursuant to the state acts,
including any part of such plan or policies separately adopted and any
amendment to such plan or policies or to any parts thereof.
   CONDOMINIUM. The division of a building or buildings and the related land
into horizontal property interests meeting the requirements of and controlled
by the state statutes for condominiums as prescribed by the I.C. 32-35 et seq.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS. The maps, drawings and textual descriptions accompanying
a subdivision plat showing the specific location and design of improvements to
be installed in the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter as a condition of the approval of the plat.
   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS. The town’s Construction Standards for Subdivision
and Development as adopted and amended.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the town.
   COVENANT. A written promise or pledge.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet which has an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement, including
the reversal of public safety vehicles.
   CULVERT. A drain which channels water under a bridge, street or driveway.
   DEAD-END STREET. A street or portion of a street with only one vehicular
traffic outlet and no turnaround at the terminal end.
   DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes, as by the
recording of a plat.
   DEVELOPER. The authorized agent or agents of a subdivider or the subdivider
himself or herself. The DEVELOPER may be the owner of land proposed to be
subdivided or his or her representative, the subdivider.
   DRIVES, PRIVATE. Vehicular streets and driveways, paved or unpaved, which
are wholly within private property except where they intersect with other
streets within public rights-of-way.
   EASEMENT. An authorization grant by a property owner for the use by another
of any designated part of his or her property for a clearly- specified purpose
or for clearly-specified purposes.
   ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the Commission in lieu of an amount required
and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond. Such ESCROW FUNDS
shall be held by the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   FINAL PLAT. The map, drawing or plan described in this chapter of a
subdivision and any accompanying material submitted to the Commission for
secondary approval which, if approved and signed by the designated officials,
may be submitted to the county’s Recorder for recording.
   FLEXIBLE ZONING. Zoning which permits uses of land and a density of
buildings and structures different from those which are allowed within the
zoning district in which the land is situated. FLEXIBLE ZONING applications
shall include, but not be limited to, all special permits and special uses,
group housing projects and planned unit development.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. Those floodplains which have not been adequately
protected from flooding by the regulatory flood by means of dikes, levees or
reservoirs and which are shown on the floodway-flood boundary maps of the
Federal Insurance Administration or on maps provided to the Commission from the
state’s Natural Resources Commission.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the lowest point around the
perimeter of a building at which floodwater may enter the interior of the
building.
   FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a
river or stream which has been or may be covered by floodwater. The FLOODPLAIN
includes the channel, floodway and floodway fringe.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FOUNDATION. The supporting member of a wall or structure.
   FRONTAGE. The length along the street right-of-way line of a single lot,
tract or development area between the side lot lines of the property. It is
that side of a lot which abuts a street and is ordinarily regarded as the front
of the lot. Lots shall not be considered to front on stub ends of streets and
will be considered to front on both intersecting streets in the case of corner
lots.
   GRADE. The slope of roads, streets or other public ways as specified in
terms of percentage.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND HEALTH OFFICER. The agency and person designated by
the town to administer the health regulations within the town’s jurisdiction.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site development.
   IMPROVEMENT, LOT. Any building, structure, place, work of art or other
object, or any improvement of the land on which they are situated, constituting
a physical betterment of a real property or any part of such betterment.
Certain LOT IMPROVEMENTS shall be properly bonded as provided in this chapter.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any drainage ditch, roadway, sidewalk, tree, lawn, off-
street parking area, lot improvement or other facility for which the local or
state government may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and
operation or which may affect an improvement for which local or state
government responsibility is established. All such IMPROVEMENTS shall be
properly bonded.
   IMPROVEMENT, TEMPORARY. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during the construction of a subdivision prior to release of the performance
bond.
   INDIANA CODE. The Burns Indiana Statutes Code Edition, usually abbreviated
as I.C. herein, which codifies all state statutes for reference purposes. The
latest edition, with any amending supplements, must be referred to for the laws
currently in force and applicable.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system or any other approved sewage- treatment device.
   LAND USE. The development existing on land.
   LOCAL STREET. A street intended to provide access to other streets from
individual properties and to provide rights-of-way beneath it for sewer, water
and storm drainage pipes.
   LOT. A tract, plot or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or for building development.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions
including, but not limited to, subdivisions of four or more lots or any size of
subdivision requiring any new street, an extension of the local governmental
facilities or the creation of any public improvements.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than three lots
fronting on an existing street which do not involve any new streets or roads,
the extension of municipal facilities or the creation of any public
improvements, do not adversely affect the remainder of the parcel or adjoining
properties and are not in conflict with any provision or portion of the
Comprehensive Plan, Thoroughfare Plan, zoning ordinance or this chapter.
   MODEL HOME. Dwelling units used initially for display purposes which typify
the types of units that will be constructed in the subdivision. Such dwelling
units may be erected at the discretion of the Plan Commission by permitting a
portion of a major subdivision involving not more than three lots to be created
according to the procedures for a minor subdivision as set in this chapter.
   MONUMENT. Any permanent marker of concrete, galvanized iron pipe or iron or
steel rods which is used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines.
   NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial.
   ORDINANCE. Any legislative action, however denominated, of a local
government which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any
ordinance.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation or
any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest
in the land sought to be subdivided under this chapter.
   PARCEL. A part or portion of land having a legal description formally set
forth in a conveyance, together with the boundaries thereof, in order to make
possible its easy identification.
   PLAN COMMISSION. See ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A means of land regulation which permits large-
scale, unified land development in a configuration, and possibly a mix of uses,
not otherwise permitted “as the right” under the town ordinance but which
requires a special review and approval process under that ordinance or a
special ordinance.
   PLAT. A map indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land which is
filed or intended to be filed for record with the county’s Recorder.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Commission for approval.
   PRIMARY APPROVAL. An approval, or an approval with conditions imposed,
granted to a subdivision by the Commission after having determined in a public
hearing that the subdivision complies with the standards prescribed in this
chapter per I.C. 36-7-4-700: Subdivision Control.
   PRIMARY ARTERIAL. A street intended to move through-traffic to and from such
major attractors as central business districts, regional shopping centers,
colleges and universities, major industrial areas and similar traffic
generators within the town; a major thoroughfare.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor who is properly licensed and
registered in the state or who is permitted to practice in the state through
reciprocity.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer who is properly licensed and
registered in the state or who is permitted to practice in the state through
reciprocity.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a peak discharge which can be equaled or
exceeded on an average of once in a 100-year period as calculated by a method
and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the state’s Natural
Resources Commission; this flood is equivalent to a flood having a probability
of occurrence of 1% in any given year.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The maximum elevation, as established by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources, that is reached by the regulatory
flood at the locations in question which are relevant to the approval of a
given subdivision under consideration.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to
efficiently carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any
river or stream shown on the floodway-flood boundary maps of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent
property which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street
extension or widening.
   RESUBDIVISION (REPLAT). A change in a map of an approved or recorded
subdivision plat if such change affects any street layout on such map, any area
reserved thereon for public use or any lot line, or if it affects any map or
plan legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
transportation facilities, public utilities or other special public uses.
RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for any use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to the public use by the maker of the plat on which such
RIGHT-OF-WAY is established.
   SALE or LEASE. Any immediate or future transfer of ownership or any
possessory interest in land, including contracts of sale, lease, devise,
interstate succession or transfer, of an interest in a subdivision or part
thereof, whether by deed, metes and bounds, contract, plat or other written
instrument.
   SECONDARY APPROVAL. The stage of application for formal Commission approval
of a final plat of a subdivision the construction of which has been completed
or substantially completed which, if approved and signed by the designated
officials, may be submitted to the county’s Recorder for filing.
   SECONDARY ARTERIAL. A street intended to collect and distribute traffic in a
manner similar to primary arterials, except that these streets service minor
traffic-generating areas such as community-commercial areas, primary and
secondary educational facilities, hospitals, major recreational areas, churches
and offices or are designed to carry traffic from collector streets to the
system of primary arterials.
   SETBACK. A line parallel to the relevant lot line, front, back or side,
between which no buildings or structures may be erected as prescribed in the
town’s zoning ordinance.
   SKETCH PLAN. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary
plat, or to the preparation of the final plat in the case of minor
subdivisions, to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching a
general agreement with the Commission as to the form of the plat and the
objectives of this chapter.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STATE ACTS. Such legislative acts of the state as they effect this chapter.
   STATE PLANE COORDINATE SYSTEM. A system of plane coordinates based on the
Transverse Mercator Projection for the Western Zone of the state, established
by the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey for the state.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The distance between property lines measured at
right angles to the center line of the street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires a location on or
in the ground or is attached to something having a location on or in the
ground.
   SUBDIVIDER. The individual, firm, syndicate, corporation, partnership,
association, trust or other legal entity which executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The SUBDIVIDER need not be the owner of the
property; however, he or she shall be an agent of the owner or have sufficient
proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to
be divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or interests for
the purpose of offer, sale, lease or development either on the installment plan
or upon any and all other plans, terms and conditions, including resubdivision.
SUBDIVISION includes the division or development of residential and
nonresidential zoned land, whether by deed, metes and bounds description or
other recorded instrument. However, this chapter shall not apply to any of the
following:
      (1)   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does
not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and which does not change
the original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat;
      (2)   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of property;
      (3)   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in state law;
      (4)   The acquisition of street rights-of-way by a public agency in
conformance with the Comprehensive Plan; or
      (5)   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in a change of the present land usage.
   TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during the construction of a subdivision which is intended to be replaced by a
permanent improvement prior to release of the performance bond or turnaround
improvements at the ends of stub streets which is intended to be replaced when
the adjoining area is developed and the through- street connections made.
   TOWN ATTORNEY. The licensed attorney designated by the legally-authorized
body to furnish legal assistance for the administration of this chapter in lieu
of the Commission having its own attorney.
   TOWN ENGINEER. The licensed engineer designated by the town to furnish
engineering assistance in the administration of this chapter.
   UTILITIES. Installations for the transmission of water, sewage, gas,
electricity, telecommunications and stormwater, and similar facilities
providing services to and used by the public.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations of
this chapter where such modification will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the
result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter
would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   YARD. A space on the same lot as a principal building, such space being
open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky
except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The town’s ordinance setting forth the regulations
controlling the use of land in the incorporated areas and in those
unincorporated areas to which the town has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
SUBMISSION OF PLATS
§ 155.025 REQUIRED PROCEDURE.
   The procedure for the review and approval of a subdivision or planned unit
development (PUD) plat shall consist of four separate steps, in sequence: an
informal discussion meeting with the Administrator, the submission of a
preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision, the submission of construction
plans of the proposed subdivision and the submission of a final plat of the
subdivision. No person proposing a subdivision shall proceed with any grading
and improvements for streets or the installation of public utilities until the
preliminary plat and construction plans of the proposed subdivision are
approved by the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.026 ADVISORY MEETING WITH ADMINISTRATOR.
   Whenever the owner of any tract or parcel of land in the planning or
corporate limits of the town intends to make a subdivision or PUD, the
subdivider shall first meet and consult informally with the Administrator to
discuss the nature of the land division being proposed. At this meeting, the
Administrator will discuss the classification of the subdivision and what
regulatory procedures apply as required by this chapter. Discussions may also
be held regarding the general layout of streets and reservations of land,
drainage, fire protection and the availability of existing utilities and
services. At the same meeting, the subdivider should review with the
Administrator the minimum standards of subdivision design set forth in this
chapter and as required by the town’s Construction Standards. The distinction
between major and minor subdivisions as defined in this chapter shall be made
by the Commission when the applicant submits an application for sketch plan
approval.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.027 APPLICATION PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   After the advisory meeting with the Administrator, and in order to
begin the subdivision process, the applicant shall file with the Administrator
an application for review of a sketch plan, as described in §
155.150 of this chapter, and all applicable fees.
      (2)   The application shall:
         (a)   Be submitted on forms available at the office of the Commission
and be signed by the owner;
         (b)   Be accompanied by a fee of $50, plus $3 per lot in excess of
four lots;
         (c)   Identify all contiguous property of the owner with an indication
of the portion that is proposed to be subdivided, accompanied by an affidavit
of ownership which shall included the date that each separate parcel of land
was acquired, together with the book and page of each conveyance to the present
owner as recorded in the office of the county’s Recorder;
         (d)   Be submitted in duplicate;
         (e)   Be accompanied by a minimum of three copies of the sketch plan;
and
         (f)   Include the address and telephone number of an agent within the
territory of the Commission who shall be authorized to receive all notices
required by this chapter.
   (B)   Checkpoint submission. A copy of the sketch plan shall be submitted to
each of the checkpoint agencies which have jurisdiction or authority over any
area covered by the proposed subdivision, as listed below. The sketch plan and
application will not be deemed to be submitted until all of the checkpoint
agencies are in receipt of the sketch plan. The Administrator shall request
that all checkpoint agencies and officials to whom a request is made submit a
written report to the Administrator within 15 days of their receipt of the
sketch plan. Such checkpoint agencies shall include the Town Council, Town
Marshal, Zoning Commission, Utility Superintendents, Fire Department, the
county’s Health Department and the Eastern School Corporation.
   (C)   Administrator’s review. Within 30 calendar days of the submission
date, the Administrator shall study the proposal, review the application,
review any checkpoint agency comments and meet with the applicant and any
representatives of the reviewing agencies to discuss the aspects of the
proposed subdivision and possible modifications or changes which may be
required under this chapter. At this time, the Administrator shall also
classify the proposed subdivision as either a major or a minor subdivision, as
defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.028 MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Generally. During sketch plan review, if the Administrator classifies
the proposed land division as a major subdivision, then the applicant shall
follow the procedures outlined and detailed in this section. In addition to the
sketch plan, the applicant shall submit a preliminary subdivision plat, which
shall be approved, conditionally approved or rejected by the Commission at a
public meeting, and a final subdivision plat, which must be found to be in
compliance with the preliminary plat as approved by the Commission in order to
be signed and recorded.
   (B)   Official submission dates. The application and sketch plan shall be
submitted at least 61 calendar days before the date of the public meeting at
which the applicant intends to present the preliminary plat and at least 31
calendar days before submission of the preliminary plat.
   (C)   Preliminary plat procedures for primary approval.
      (1)   Submission requirements. Following the submission, review and
report on the sketch plan application, the subdivider may file a preliminary
plat for primary approval in the form prescribed in §
155.151 of this chapter. This submission shall:
         (a)   Be made on forms approved and provided by the Commission and be
submitted with a fee of $3 per lot for each lot not included in the sketch
plan;
         (b)   Show all land that the applicant proposes to subdivide and the
adjacent land within 100 feet. The application shall include all names and
addresses of the owners of adjoining land as shown in the files of the county’s
Auditor;
         (c)   Be presented in duplicate to the Administrator not later than 30
calendar days before the regular meeting of the Commission at which it is
requested to be heard;
         (d)   Be accompanied by ten copies of the preliminary plat as
described; and
         (e)   Generally comply with the sketch plan as reviewed.
      (2)   Placement on the commission agenda. Subsequent to the submission of
the preliminary plat for primary approval, the Commission shall place the
matter on its next regular meeting agenda for formal action.
      (3)   Administrative review. Subsequent to placement on the agenda and
before the date of the public hearing, the Administrator and other individuals
serving the Commission in an advisory capacity shall review the proposal and
prepare a written report for the Commission and the applicant indicating a
recommendation concerning the proposed subdivision.
      (4)   Public hearing notification. The Commission shall hold a public
hearing on the preliminary plat. Notice of such hearing shall be in local
newspapers of general circulation at least ten days prior to the hearing, as
per I.C. 5-3-1, at the applicant’s expense. Prior to the public hearing, the
applicant shall submit proof of publication that the notices of public hearing
were properly published. Any interested parties shall also be notified by the
applicant by certified mail of the date, time, place and purpose of the public
hearing at least ten days in advance of the hearing. At the time of the public
hearing, the applicant shall file with the Commission an affidavit so
testifying along with the certified mail receipts provided by the Post Office.
      (5)   Primary approval of the preliminary plat. At the public hearing,
the Commission will receive and consider the Administrator’s report, checkpoint
agency recommendations, testimony and exhibits submitted at the public hearing.
After the hearing on the preliminary plat, the applicant shall be advised of
any required changes or additions. The Commission shall approve, conditionally
approve or reject the preliminary plat. One copy of the preliminary plat shall
be returned to the applicant with the decision and reasons therefor within five
days of the public hearing. Primary approval by the Commission is subject to
review by certiorari. Secondary approval of a subdivision cannot occur until a
minimum of 30 days has elapsed since the granting of the primary approval.
      (6)   Effective period of primary approval. Unless extended, primary
approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of two years
after the date of primary approval, at the end of which time secondary approval
of the subdivision must have been obtained. Any plats not receiving secondary
approval within the specified time shall be null and void, and the applicant
shall be required to resubmit a new application for sketch plan review and
certificate subject to all zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations in
effect at the time of resubmission. Upon the request of the applicant, the
Commission may extend the preliminary approval of a preliminary plat in
increments of two years beyond an expiration date without further notice and
public hearing.
   (D)   Approval of construction plans.
      (1)   Following the approval of the preliminary plat and prior to
submission of the final plat, if the applicant wishes to proceed with the
subdivision, then before starting any work or improvements, he or she shall
file with the Plan Commission four sets of the detailed construction plans and
specifications in the form prescribed in §
155.152 of this chapter. Said documents must be submitted before beginning any
work or improvements. In no event shall final plat approval be given prior to
approval of the construction plans.
      (2)   The Commission shall refer these plans to the appropriate agencies
for review and comment. Once these agencies indicate their approval of the
construction plans or 14 working days have elapsed without a written response,
the Commission shall stamp the plans approved and return one set to the
applicant. Revisions and resubmittals of the construction plans as required by
review comments shall be at the expense of the applicant.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to submit all
necessary documents, plans, specifications and filing fees to the state and
county regulatory agencies for consideration of approval as prescribed by their
laws and regulations. Such agencies could include, but not necessarily, the
state’s Department of Environmental Management, the state’s Department of
Natural Resources, the state’s Department of Transportation, the Administrative
Building Council and the county’s Health Department. Where applicable, the
Commission reserves the right to withhold final acceptance of the subdivision
contingent upon receiving approvals from these agencies.
      (4)   The installation of improvements shall be in accordance with the
approved construction plans and shall be inspected by the designated town
official. Such inspections are required in all instances regardless of whether
the work is performed before or after final plat approval. Failure to request
inspection or to proceed without proper notification to the designated official
may be cause for a denial of final plat approval.
   (E)   Final plat procedure (secondary approval).
      (1)   Submission requirements. Following the approval or conditional
approval of the preliminary plat and construction plans, if the applicant
wishes to proceed with the subdivision, then he or she shall file with the
Commission a request for final plat approval. The application shall be filed on
forms available at the office of the Plan Commission and shall:
         (a)   Include the entire subdivision or section thereof which derives
access from an existing state, county or municipal roadway;
         (b)   Be accompanied by ten copies of the final plat as described in §
155.153 of this chapter;
         (c)   Totally comply with this chapter and the terms and conditions of
primary approval;
         (d)   Be accompanied by the performance bond, if required, in a form
satisfactory to the Commission Attorney and in an amount established by the
Commission upon recommendation of the participating jurisdiction and shall
guarantee the completion of all required subdivision and off-site public
improvements; and
         (e)   Be accompanied by any restrictive covenants, where they have
been proposed by the subdivider or required by the Commission, in a form which
is approved by the Commission.
      (2)   Determination of conformance (secondary approval). In order to be
recorded, a final plat must be found to be in conformance with the primary
approval by the Commission. If the final subdivision plat deviates from the
approved preliminary plat, then the subdivision shall be resubmitted to the
Commission at a public meeting for a new primary approval. The subdivider shall
request in writing a Commission review not less than 30 calender days prior to
the date of the public meeting at which he or she intends to have his or her
final plat reviewed. The Commission shall place the matter on its next regular
meeting agenda. The Administrator shall review the proposal and submit a
written report and recommendations to the Commission and the applicant; at the
public hearing, the Commission shall approve or reject the final plat. If
granted secondary approval, then it shall be signed by the Commission. If not
granted secondary approval, then the subdivider shall be informed as to the
insufficiency of his or her submittal.
      (3)   Sectionalizing plats. Prior to granting secondary approval of a
major subdivision plat, the Commission may permit the plat to be divided into
two or more sections and may impose such conditions upon the filing of the
sections as it may deem necessary to assure the orderly development of the
plat. The Commission may require that the performance bond be in such amount as
will be commensurate with the section or sections of the plat to be filed and
may defer the remaining required performance bond principal amount until the
remaining sections of the plat are offered for filing. Such sections must
contain at least 20 lots or 10% of the total number of lots contained in the
approved plat, whichever is less. The approval of all remaining sections not
filed with the Administrator shall automatically expire after two years from
the date of primary approval of the preliminary plat unless the expiration date
has been extended.
   (F)   Signing and recording a plat.
      (1)   Signing of plat. When the filing of a performance bond is required,
the Commission shall endorse approval on the plat by signing the certificate
only after the bond and construction plans have been approved and all of the
conditions of the primary approval have been satisfied. When the installation
of improvements is required, the Commission shall endorse secondary approval of
the plat by signing the certificate after all conditions of the primary
approval have been satisfied, all improvements have been satisfactorily
completed and accepted for public maintenance, “as-built” construction plans
have been submitted and, where required by this chapter, a maintenance bond has
been provided.
      (2)   Assurance to subdivider. If the subdivider elects to install all
improvements before he or she applies for secondary approval and it is shown
that the conditions of this chapter have been met, and if the final plat
completely conforms to the primary approval, then the Commission shall have no
other recourse than to grant secondary approval.
      (3)   Recording of final plat. The Commission shall sign the certificate,
which shall be part of the reproducible Mylar prints of the subdivision plat,
plus two sets of prints of the subdivision plat. The Mylar prints shall be
returned to the subdivider and his or her engineer or surveyor. It shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider to file the plat with the county’s Recorder
within 30 days of the date of signature. Failure of the subdivider to file the
plat as herein provided within 30 days shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.029 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Should the Administrator, upon examination of the sketch
plan application, classify the proposed land division as a minor subdivision,
then the subdivider shall follow the procedures and be subject to the process
outlined in this section. In addition to a sketch plan reviewed by the
Administrator and checkpoint agencies for primary approval by the Commission,
the applicant seeking approval of a minor subdivision shall submit for
secondary approval a final subdivision plat, which must be found in compliance
with the sketch plan or otherwise approved by the Commission in order to be
signed and recorded.
   (B)   Official submission date and placement on the agenda. An application
for sketch plan approval shall be submitted not less than 30 calender days
prior to a regularly-scheduled public meeting of the Commission at which the
proposal is intended to be acted upon. The Administrator shall place such
application on the agenda of the first regularly-scheduled meeting of the
Commission to occur 30 days after the date a complete application is submitted.
   (C)   Sketch plan review process. Within 20 calender days of the
subdivider’s sketch plan application submittal, the Administrator shall have
studied the proposal, reviewed received checkpoint agency reports and met with
the subdivider to discuss pertinent aspects of the proposed subdivision and
possible modifications or changes which may be suggested or required by this
chapter. The Administrator shall request that a representative of each
checkpoint agency that wishes to be involved in the sketch plan review be
present to participate in the sketch plan review meeting. In taking into
consideration the requirements of this chapter, particular attention shall be
given to sewage disposal, drainage, lot size and arrangement, the further
development of adjoining lands as yet unsubdivided and the requirements of the
Comprehensive Plan as adopted.
   (D)   Administrative review. Subsequent to placement on the agenda and prior
to the date of the public hearing, the Administrator and other appropriate
members of the Commission’s staff, including its Director, shall review the
proposal and prepare a written report to the Commission and the applicant
indicating a recommendation with regard to the subdivision being proposed.
   (E)   Public hearing notification and sign-posting requirements. The
Commission shall hold a public hearing on the sketch plan. Notice of such
hearing shall be published in at least one local newspaper of general
circulation ten days prior to the hearing, as per I.C. 5-3-1, at the
applicant’s expense. At the time of the public hearing, the applicant shall
show proof of publication that the notices of public hearing were published as
required. Interested parties shall be notified by the applicant by certified
mail of the date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing on the
subdivision at least ten days in advance of the hearing. At the time of the
public hearing, the applicant shall file with the Commission an affidavit so
testifying, along with the certified mail receipts provided by the Post Office.
   (F)   Primary approval of the sketch plan. After the Commission has examined
the sketch plan, Administrator’s report, checkpoint agency recommendations,
testimony and exhibits submitted, the Commission shall approve, conditionally
approve or reject the sketch plan at a regularly-scheduled hearing. One copy of
the sketch plan shall be returned to the applicant within five days after the
public hearing with the date of approval, conditional approval or rejection and
the reasons therefore accompanying the sketch plan. Primary approval by the
Commission is subject to review by certiorari. Secondary approval of a
subdivision cannot occur until a minimum of 30 days has elapsed since the
granting of primary approval or conditional primary approval.
   (G)   Effective period of primary approval. Unless extended, the primary
approval of a minor sketch plan shall be effective for a period of two years
after the date of primary approval, at the end of which time secondary approval
of the subdivision must have been obtained and certified by the Commission. Any
plats not receiving secondary approval within the period of time set forth
herein shall be null and void, and the developer shall be required to resubmit
a new application for sketch plan review and certificate subject to all of the
zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations in effect at the time of
resubmission. Upon a written application of the applicant, the Commission may
extend the primary approval of a minor sketch plan in increments of two years
beyond an expiration date without further notice and public hearing.
   (H)   Final subdivision plat procedure for secondary approval.
      (1)   Application requirements. Following approval or conditional
approval of the sketch plan, if the applicant wishes to proceed with the
subdivision, then he or she shall file with the Administrator an application
for secondary approval of a subdivision plat. The application shall:
         (a)   Be submitted on forms available at the office of the Commission;
         (b)   Include the entire subdivision or section thereof;
         (c)   Be accompanied by ten copies of the final subdivision plat as
described in §
155.153 of this chapter;
         (d)   Totally comply with this chapter and the terms and conditions of
approval;
         (e)   Be accompanied by a performance bond, if required, in a form
satisfactory to the Commission Attorney and in an amount established by the
Commission upon the recommendation of the participating jurisdiction; said bond
shall guarantee the completion of all required subdivision and off-site public
improvements; and
         (f)   Be accompanied by restrictive covenants, where proposed by the
subdivider or required by the Commission, in a form approved by the Commission.
      (2)   Determination of conformance (secondary approval). In order to be
recorded, a final subdivision plat must be found to be in conformance with the
approved sketch plan by the Commission. If the final subdivision plat deviates
from the sketch plan that received primary approval, then the subdivision shall
be resubmitted to the Commission at a public hearing for a new primary
approval. The subdivider shall request in writing a Commission review no less
than 30 calender days prior to the date of the public hearing at which he or
she intends to have his or her final plat reviewed. The Commission shall place
the matter on its next regular hearing agenda. The Administrator shall review
the proposal and submit a written report and recommendations to the Commission
and the applicant; at the public hearing, the Commission shall give secondary
approval of or reject the final plat. If approved, then it shall be signed by
the Commission. If not approved, then the subdivider shall be informed as to
the insufficiency of his or her submittal.
   (I)   Signing and recording a plat.
      (1)   Signing of plat.
         (a)   When the filing of a performance bond is required, the
Commission shall endorse approval on the plat by signing the certificate after
the bond and construction plans have been approved and all conditions of the
primary approval have been satisfied.
         (b)   When the installation of improvements is required, the
Commission shall endorse secondary approval on the plat by signing the
certificate after all conditions of the primary approval have been satisfied,
all improvements have been satisfactorily completed and accepted for public
maintenance, when required, “as built” construction plans have been submitted
and a maintenance bond, as may be required by this chapter, has been provided.
      (2)   Assurance to subdivider. If the subdivider elects to install all
improvements before he or she applies for secondary approval and it is shown
that the conditions of this chapter have been met, and if the final plat
completely conforms to the primary approval, then the Commission shall have no
other recourse than to grant secondary approval.
      (3)   Recording of plat. The Commission shall sign the certificate
granting secondary approval, which shall be part of the reproducible Mylar
print of the subdivision plat, plus two Mylar prints of the subdivision plat.
The Mylar prints shall be returned to the applicant and his or her engineer or
surveyor. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to file the plat
with the county’s Recorder within 30 days of the date of signature. Failure of
the subdivider to file the plat within 30 days shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.040 GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdivision plats
and improvements shall comply with the following laws, rules, and regulations:
   (A)   All applicable federal, state and local statutory provisions;
   (B)   The town’s zoning ordinance and Comprehensive Plan and all other
applicable laws and ordinances of the appropriate jurisdictions;
   (C)   The town’s Construction Standards;
   (D)   All applicable rules and regulations of the county’s Health
Department;
   (E)   The rules and regulations of the state’s Department of Transportation
if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway or state
frontage road; and
   (F)   All pertinent standards contained within the current planning guides
published by the Advisory Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.041 PLATS CROSSING MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Lot lines shall be laid out so as not to cross municipal boundary
lines.
   (B)   Whenever access to the subdivision is required across land in another
jurisdiction, the Commission may request assurance from the Town Attorney that
such access is legally established and assurance from the County Engineer that
the access road is adequately improved or that a performance bond has been duly
executed and is of sufficient amount to insure the construction of such access
road.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.042 SUBDIVISION NAME.
   (A)   The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or too
closely approximate phonetically the name of any other subdivision in the area
covered by this chapter.
   (B)   The Commission shall have final authority to approve or otherwise
designate the name of the subdivision, which shall be determined at the time of
preliminary plat approval.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.043 SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   If the Commission finds that land proposed to be subdivided is
unsuitable for subdivision development due to flooding, poor drainage, steep
slopes or other such conditions as may increase the danger to health, life or
property, aggravate erosion or flood hazards, and if it has been determined
from adequate investigations conducted by all of the public agencies concerned
that in the best interest of the public, the land should not be platted and
developed for the purpose proposed, then the Commission shall not approve the
land for subdivision unless adequate methods are formulated by the subdivider
for meeting the problems which will be created by the subdivision and
development of the land.
   (B)   The Commission may refuse to approve what it considers to be scattered
or premature subdivision of land which would involve danger or injury to the
public health, safety, welfare or prosperity by reason of a lack of adequate
water supply, schools, proper drainage, good roads and transportation
facilities or other public services, or which would necessitate an excessive
expenditure of public funds for the supply of such services, such as undue
maintenance costs for adequate roads.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.044 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Monuments consisting of a steel pin encased in concrete shall be
placed under the supervision of a registered land surveyor. The steel pin shall
be one-half inch in diameter and 30 inches long. The concrete encasement shall
consist of a minimum four-inch diameter pier 30 inches long. The top of the
steel pin centered in the concrete shall be one-fourth inch above the top of
the concrete. Monuments shall be placed at each corner or angle of the outside
boundary of the subdivision and shall be set following the grading of each
phase so that the top of the monument is level with the finished grade.
   (B)   The corners of all lots not marked by monuments as described above
shall be marked by galvanized or wrought iron pipe or by iron or steel bars at
least 30 inches in length and not less than one inch in diameter, the top of
said pipe or bar to be set level with the surrounding ground. Markings shall
include all angles and points of curvature as may be required to reestablish
the lot boundaries. All lot staking shall be performed under the supervision of
a registered land surveyor.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.045 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be shown for natural features
such as large trees, unusual rock formations and water courses, sites which
have historical significance and similar assets which, if preserved, will add
attractiveness and value to the subdivision and to the community. All trees on
the plat which are to remain shall be preserved during development. The sketch
plan shall show the number and location of existing trees and shall indicate
those trees required to be retained.
   (B)   The planting of new trees throughout the development is encouraged,
but in no case may trees be planted within the public rights-of-way of
residential areas. Where trees are planned within other public rights-of-way,
the location of such trees shall be included in the sketch plan as submitted
with the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.046 PUBLIC USES.
   (A)   Parks, playgrounds and recreation areas. The Commission shall require
that land be reserved for parks and playgrounds or other recreational purposes
in locations designated on the Comprehensive Plan or where such reservations
would be appropriate. Each reservation shall be of suitable size and topography
and shall have adequate road access for the intended purpose. Any such areas
shall be identified on the subdivision plat.
      (1)   When recreation areas are required, the Commission shall determine
the number of acres to be reserved based on an allotted area of three acres per
100 dwelling units or a minimum of 5% of the total subdivision land area,
whichever is greater. Land reserved for recreational purposes shall be of a
character and location which is suitable for use as a playground or other
recreation purposes and shall be relatively dry and level. It shall be improved
by the developer to the standards required by the Commission, and the cost of
the improvements shall be included in the amount of the performance bond.
      (2)   A recreation site shall have a total frontage on one or more
streets of at least 200 feet and shall not be any narrower than 50 feet in
depth at any point.
      (3)   The developers of adjoining subdivisions may cooperate in
allocating open space for joint use by all residents of the subdivisions
concerned. Where this is done, the size, location and design are subject to
Commission approval.
   (B)   Exceptions subject to discretion. At the discretion of the Commission,
the requirement for dedicated parks and playground areas may be waived based on
specific circumstances, such as the proximity to existing parks and
recreational facilities. If desired, it shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider to request such a waiver at the time of preliminary plat submittal.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.047 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks shall be provided within the dedicated rights-of-way in all major
subdivisions and in all minor subdivisions which are adjacent to existing
sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be constructed along both sides of all local,
collector and arterial streets. A grassed or landscaped median strip at least
four feet wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs. Wherever a
proposed subdivision is developed adjacent to or between existing sidewalks,
the developer shall extend the new sidewalks to the property line to connect
with the existing sidewalks.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.048 UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utility lines including, but not limited to, gas, electric,
telephone and cable television shall be located underground throughout the
subdivision within public rights-of-way or dedicated utility easements.
Underground service connections to each platted lot shall be installed at the
subdivider’s expense.
   (B)   Easements centered on the rear lot lines shall be provided for public
and private utilities. Such easements shall be at least 15 feet in width and
centered on the lots. Additional utility easements of equal width shall be
provided along side lot lines where necessary to complete the utility work as
approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.049 WATER SUPPLY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Water supply facilities and distribution systems.
      (1)   The subdivider shall construct a complete water distribution system
which shall adequately serve all lots, include appropriately-spaced fire
hydrants and be properly connected with the town’s public water supply system.
The subdivider shall, at his or her expense, be responsible for any required
offsite water mains as may be reasonably necessary to connect to the existing
system.
      (2)   Where a public water supply system is not reasonably accessible to
the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to install alternate water
supply facilities approved by the Town Engineer. In no case shall individual
lot wells be allowed unless specifically approved by the Commission and the
county’s Board of Health.
   (B)   Design requirements. The design of water supply systems shall be in
accordance with the town’s Construction Standards and as recommended by the
latest edition of Recommended Standards for Water Works as published by the
Health Education Service, Albany, New York.
   (C)   Selected design criteria.
      (1)   Locations. All water mains shall be constructed within public
street rights-of- way unless approved otherwise by the town. In all cases,
water mains shall be installed in dedicated easements or rights-of-way.
      (2)   Size. Water mains shall be sized as required for the application
based on needed peak demands and fire flows but in no case shall be less than
six inches in diameter unless specifically approved by the town. The town
reserves the right to approve or modify the proposed water main size as it
relates to existing and proposed water main connections.
      (3)   Cover. Unless specifically approved otherwise by the town, all
water mains shall be buried with a minimum cover of 60 inches.
      (4)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be placed a minimum of four feet
from streets or curbs and shall be spaced a maximum of 500 feet apart.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.050 SANITARY SEWER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Sanitary sewer systems and sanitary sewer facilities. The subdivider
shall construct a complete sanitary sewer system which shall adequately serve
all lots and be properly connected to the town’s sanitary sewer system. Where a
public sanitary sewer system is not reasonably accessible to the subdivision,
the subdivider shall install alternate sanitary sewer facilities which shall be
approved by the Plan Commission and the county’s Health Officer. In any case,
sanitary sewer facilities shall be installed as required by the standards and
specifications as approved by the state’s Department of Environmental
Management.
   (B)   Connection restriction. No connections draining stormwater runoff,
including roof drains or basement sumps, shall be made to a sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Design requirements. The design of sanitary sewer systems shall be in
accordance with the town’s Construction Standards and as required by 327 I.A.C.
3 as adopted by the state’s Water Pollution Control Board.
   (D)   Lift station use. The use of lift stations in the design of the
sanitary sewer system shall be avoided wherever possible and practical. The
inclusion of lift stations shall be subject to the specific approval of the
Town Council or its designated representative.
   (E)   Selected design criteria.
      (1)   Locations. Sanitary sewers shall be located within street rights-
of-way unless topography dictates otherwise. When located in easements on
private property, access shall be provided to all manholes. Unless specifically
approved otherwise, sanitary sewer manholes shall not be located within
drainage ditches, swales or other defined drainage areas. The minimum size of a
public sanitary sewer shall be eight inches in diameter.
      (2)   Manholes. Manholes shall be installed at the end of each line, at
any change in direction and at distances not greater than 400 feet on straight
sections of sanitary sewer lines. The use of cleanouts other than as required
on service laterals shall not be allowed.
      (3)   Cover. Unless specifically approved otherwise due to topography or
limitations caused by the connection to existing sewers, the minimum cover on
sanitary sewers shall be six feet in streets and alleys and four feet in all
other areas.
      (4)   Laterals. A service lateral shall be provided to each lot proposed
by the subdivider, which lateral shall serve only one lot. Laterals shall be
placed a minimum of ten feet from any property line so as to allow for future
maintenance and repair. A manufactured wye connection shall be installed on the
mainline sewer for the purpose of connecting service laterals. The minimum size
of service laterals shall be six inches in diameter.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
LOT IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.065 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following provisions shall pertain except that modifications may be
permitted in planned unit developments. Lots shall be designated by numbers.
Streets, avenues and other grounds shall be designated by names or numbers.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.066 LOT ARRANGEMENT.
   The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties for reasons of topography or other conditions in securing building
permits to build on each of the created lots in compliance with the zoning
ordinance and local health regulations. Driveway access shall be provided for
each building on such lots from the appropriate approved street. Except where
not feasible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines
and radial to curved street lines.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.067 LOT DIMENSIONS.
   The size, shape and lot dimensions within the jurisdiction of this chapter
shall conform to the minimum requirements of the zoning ordinance. Where lots
are more than double the minimum required area for the zoning district, the
Commission may require that such lots be arranged so as to allow for further
subdivision and the opening of future streets where they would be necessary to
serve all potential lots. The dimensions of corner lots shall be large enough
to allow for the erection of buildings when observing the minimum front yard
setback from both streets. The depth and width of properties reserved or laid
out for business, commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate to
provide for all off-street parking and loading facilities as may be required by
the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.068 BUILDING LINE SETBACK.
   The building line to establish yards for all buildings and lots shall be as
provided in the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.069 DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOTS AND ACCESS TO LOTS.
   (A)   Double-frontage lots. Double- frontage and reversed-frontage lots
shall be avoided except where necessary to provide for the separation of
residential development from the traffic on bordering arterials or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography and orientation which affect the
subdivided lots.
   (B)   Access from primary and secondary arterials. Lots shall not, in
general, derive access from a primary or secondary arterial street. Where
driveway access from a primary or secondary arterial street may be the only
possible access for several adjoining lots, the Commission may require that
such lots be served by a combined-access drive in order to limit possible
traffic hazards from multiple accesses to such streets. Where possible,
driveways should be designed and arranged so as to avoid requiring vehicles to
back into traffic on primary or secondary arterials.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.070 LOT DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from
all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the
general stormwater drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so
as to avoid the accumulation of stormwater on any one or more lots from
adjacent lots.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the lot owner to maintain the lot
grade as provided for in the approved construction plans as it applies to
drainage.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.071 DEBRIS AND WASTE.
   No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones, soil, junk, rubbish or
other waste material of any kind shall be buried in any land or left or
deposited on any lot or street at the time of occupancy within a subdivision,
nor shall any be left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at the time
of expiration of the performance bond or the dedication of public improvements,
whichever is sooner.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.072 FENCING.
   Each subdivider or developer shall be required to furnish and install fences
wherever the Commission determines that a hazardous condition may exist. The
fences shall be constructed according to the Construction Standards and shall
be noted as to height and material on the final plat. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued until said fence improvements have been duly
installed.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.073 WATER BODIES AND WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   If a tract being subdivided contains a water body or a portion
thereof, then lot lines shall be drawn so as to distribute the entire ownership
of the water body among the fees of adjacent lots. The Commission may approve
an alternative allocation of interests whereby the ownership of and
responsibility for the safe maintenance of the water body is so placed that it
will not become a local government responsibility.
   (B)   No part of the minimum area of a lot required under the zoning
ordinance may be satisfied by land which is under water. Where a watercourse
separates the buildable area of a lot from the street from which it has access,
provisions shall be made for the installation of a culvert or other structure
of a design approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.074 FLOOD HAZARDS.
   (A)   Land subject to flooding and land deemed to be topographically
unsuitable for residential development shall not be platted for residential use
or for any other use which may increase the danger to health, life or property.
Such land within the subdivision shall be set aside on the plat for such uses
as will not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation contrary to the
public welfare. To ensure that lots will be located only where they will
provide flood-free house sites, the Commission may require the subdivider to
provide elevation and flood profiles sufficient to demonstrate that the house
sites will be completely free from the danger of flooding.
   (B)   If a stream flows through or adjacent to the proposed subdivision,
then the plat plan shall provide for an easement or right-of-way along the
stream for a floodway. For smaller streams, those for which the floodway for a
100- year flood is 50 feet wide or less, the plan shall also provide for
channel improvement to enable them to carry all reasonable floods within banks.
The floor elevations of houses shall be high enough to be a minimum of two feet
above the 100-year flood. The floodway easement shall be wide enough to provide
for future enlargement of the stream channel as adjacent areas become more
highly developed and runoff rates are increased.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.085 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided
includes frontage on or access from an existing street as designated by the
town’s street map and provided that such street has an existing public right-
of-way allowing public access to the subdivided area.
   (B)   Streets shall be graded and improved in accordance with the
Construction Standards and the approved construction plans and as provided
herein.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.086 TOPOGRAPHY AND ARRANGEMENT.
   (A)   Streets shall be appropriately related to the topography, and the
grades of streets shall conform as closely as possible to the original
topography.
      (1)   All streets shall be arranged and graded so as to ensure that the
building pads will be above the streets.
      (2)   A combination of steep grades and sharp curves shall be avoided.
   (B)   All arterials and collector streets shall be properly related to
special traffic generators such as industries, business districts, schools,
churches and shopping centers, to population densities and to the pattern of
existing and proposed land uses.
   (C)   Minor or local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as
possible to the topography, to discourage use by through-traffic, to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary to provide convenient and safe access to the property.
   (D)   The use of cul-de-sacs shall be restricted to where they can
reasonably enhance the development and shall not be as a replacement for
through-streets for the purpose of maximizing lots.
   (E)   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, the
location of rail facilities and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, walkways, bikeways and parking areas so as to minimize
conflict of movement between the various types of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.087 STREET EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The street layout of the proposed subdivision shall provide for the
continuation or projection of streets and alleys already existing in areas
adjacent to the area being subdivided.
   (B)   At the determination of the Commission, where it is desirable to
provide street access to adjoining properties, proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundaries of such properties. Where the
Commission deems it necessary, such dead-end streets shall be provided with a
temporary turn-around approved by the Commission.
   (C)   The street system for the proposed subdivision shall provide for
extending existing streets at the same or a greater width, but in no case shall
a street extension be of less width than the minimum width required in this
chapter for a street in its category.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.088 DEDICATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR NEW STREETS.
   The dedication of a right-of-way for new streets measured from lot line to
lot line shall be as shown in §
155.100 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.089 DEDICATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR EXISTING STREETS.
   (A)   Subdivisions platted along existing streets after the effective date
of this chapter shall dedicate additional rights-of-way if necessary to meet
the minimum street width requirements set in §
155.088 of this chapter for new subdivision streets.
   (B)   The entire minimum right-of-way width shall be dedicated where the
subdivision is located on both sides of the existing street. When the
subdivision is located on only one side of an existing street, one-half of the
required right-of- way width as measured from the center line of the existing
roadway shall be dedicated.
   (C)   Dedication of one-half of the rights- of-way for proposed streets
along the boundaries of the land proposed for subdivision shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.090 STREET GRADES AND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   All streets shall be designed so as to provide for the discharge of
surface water from pavement and rights-of-way by grading and drainage. Street
grades and curvatures shall be as listed in §
155.100 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Plan Commission will not approve any street which will be subject
to inundation or flooding. All streets must be located at elevations which will
make them flood-free in the event of a 100-year flood. Fill may be used in
areas subject to flooding in order to provide flood- free streets if such fill
does not unduly increase flood heights and where allowed by and in accordance
with any applicable rules and regulations of the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
   (C)   Drainage openings under any street shall be designed so as not to
restrict the flow of water and thereby unduly increase flood heights.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.091 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   In general, all streets shall join each other so that a street is
approximately at right angles to the street it joins for a distance of at least
100 feet.
   (B)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever practical.
In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a leveling area
shall be provided having a 2% maximum grade at least 60 feet in distance
measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
   (C)   No lot or other parcel of land which abuts on and has access to either
a collector or a local access street shall have a service drive, curb cut or
other means of access to an arterial street within 50 feet of the right-of-way
of any street which intersects such arterial street on the side on which such
lot or parcel is located.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.092 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be permitted
in blocks adjacent to arterial streets, railroads and waterways. Block lengths
in residential areas shall not exceed 1,500 feet nor be less than 400 feet.
Blocks along arterial and collector streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet
in length.
   (B)   In long blocks, the Commission may require the reservation of
easements through the block to accommodate utilities, drainage or pedestrian
traffic. Pedestrian ways or crosswalks of not less than ten feet in width may
be required through the center of blocks more than 800 feet long.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.093 DEAD ENDS AND CUL-DE-SACS.
   (A)   Dead-end streets shall not be allowed unless specifically approved by
the Plan Commission. Where allowed, dead-end streets shall not exceed 800 feet
in length.
   (B)   Minor terminal streets or courts, or cul-de-sacs, which are designed
so as to have one end permanently closed shall not be longer than 600 feet.
Such streets shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a
radius at the outside of the pavement of at least 40 feet and a radius at the
outside of the right-of-way of at least 50 feet. The cul-de-sac shall be a
geometric shape so as to contain a circle with a minimum diameter of 80 feet.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.094 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or too
closely approximate phonetically the name of any other subdivision in the area
covered by this chapter. The Plan Commission shall have final authority to
approve the name of the subdivision, determined at the time of sketch plat
approval.
   (B)   Street names shall not duplicate any existing name within the area
covered by this chapter except where a new street is a continuation of an
existing street. Street names which may be spelled differently but sound the
same as existing streets shall not be used. The Plan Commission shall have
final authority to approve the names of streets, which shall be determined at
the time of sketch plat approval.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.095 PRIVATE STREETS AND RESERVE STRIPS.
   There shall be no private streets platted within a subdivision. There shall
be no reserve strips in a subdivision except where their control is rested in
the town under conditions approved by the Commission as authorized in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.096 ACCESS TO COLLECTOR STREETS.
   (A)   Where possible, lots in single- family residential subdivisions
fronting on collector streets shall be avoided.
   (B)    Where possible, lots at the corners of intersections between local
and collector streets shall front on the local street and have driveway access
only to the local street, not to the collector street.
   (C)   In multiple-family residential areas, entrances to group parking lots
shall have access only to local streets, where possible, and such entrances
shall be widely spaced.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.097 ACCESS TO PRIMARY ARTERIALS.
   Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed primary
arterial, the Commission may require that access to it be limited by one of the
following means:
   (A)   The subdivision of the lots so as to back onto the primary arterial
and front onto a parallel local street; no access shall be provided from the
primary arterial, and screening shall be provided within a strip of land along
the rear property line of such lots;
   (B)   A series of cul-de-sacs or loop streets entered from and designed
generally to be at right angles to an access street that is at some distance
from and parallel to the arterial street, with the rear lines of their terminal
lots backing onto the arterial; or
   (C)   A marginal access or service road separated from the primary arterial
by a landscaped or decoratively-fenced grass strip and having access thereto at
widely-spaced, suitable points.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.098 STREET REGULATORY SIGNS.
   The applicant shall provide and install a street sign at every street
intersection within his or her subdivision. The town shall inspect and approve
all street signs before the issuance of certificates of occupancy for any
residences on the approved streets.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.099 RAILROADS AND LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS.
   Railroad rights-of-way and limited-access highways where located so as to
affect the subdivision of adjoining lands shall be treated as follows.
   (A)   In residential districts, a buffer strip at least 25 feet in depth
which is in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district
shall be provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited-access
highway. This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated
on the plat: “This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structures
hereon other than earth berms, walls, fences and other landscape-screening
devices approved by the Commission is prohibited”.
   (B)   In districts zoned for business, commercial, or industrial uses, the
nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to a railroad
shall, wherever practical, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure a
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
   (C)   Streets parallel to a railroad shall, to the extent practicable, be at
a distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way when
intersecting a street which crosses the railroad at grade. Such distance shall
be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for the
future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.100 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STREETS.
Feature Arterial Street Collector Street Local Street Cul-de-sac
Feature                Arterial Street Collector Street Local Street Cul-de-sac
Horizontal curve       200 feet        100 feet         100 feet     100 feet
minimum radius
Maximum grade          5%              7%               7%           7%
Minimum angle for      90 degrees      80 degrees       70 degrees   70 degrees
intersection
Minimum corner radius  30 feet         25 feet          20 feet      20 feet
Minimum grade          0.5%            0.5%             0.5%         0.5%
Minimum street width*  48 feet         36 feet          26 feet      26 feet
Minimum tangent length 200 feet        150 feet         100 feet     100 feet
between reverse curves
Right-of-way width     70 feet         60 feet          50 feet      50 feet
Vertical curve minimum 500 feet        300 feet         200 feet     100 feet
sight distance
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Street width is defined as the distance from front of curb. Where curb and
gutter is required, minimum street widths will be increased as detailed in the
Construction Standards.
 
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWER IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.115 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The Commission shall not recommend for approval any subdivision plat which
does not make adequate provision for stormwater or floodwater runoff channels
or basins. The stormwater drainage system shall be separate and independent of
any sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by
the Rational Method, or by other methods as approved by the Commission, and a
copy of the design computations shall be submitted along with the plans. Inlets
shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any
street intersection, for a distance of more than 600 feet in the gutter or
where the encroachment of stormwater into the street disrupts traffic. When
calculations indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a point, no further
allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point and catch basins or inlets
shall be used to intercept flow at that point.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.116 NATURE OF STORMWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Location. The subdivider may be required by the Commission to carry
away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist either
previously to or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities shall
be located in the street rights- of-way where feasible or in perpetual,
unobstructed easements of appropriate width.
   (B)   Accessibility to public storm sewers. Where a public storm sewer is
accessible, the applicant shall install storm sewer facilities. If no outlets
are within a reasonable distance, then adequate provision shall be made for the
disposal of stormwater. However, in subdivisions containing lots of less than
15,000 square feet in area and in business and industrial districts,
underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed throughout the subdivision
and be conducted to an approved outfall.
   (C)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert or other drainage
facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate the potential runoff
from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The Town Engineer shall approve the necessary size of the facility
as determined by the subdivider based on the provisions of the required
standards of construction and the specifications assuming conditions of maximum
potential watershed development permitted by the zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Drainage design criteria.
      (1)   The subdivider shall size all storm sewers, inlets, culverts,
ditches and other drainage structures based on runoff from a ten-year storm
event. The drainage calculations shall also include the effect of the
subdivision on the existing downstream drainage facilities outside of the
subdivided area. Where it is determined that runoff incidental to the
development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage
facility during a five- year storm, the Plan Commission shall not approve the
subdivision until provisions have been made for the improvement of said
condition.
      (2)   The storm drainage system will be designed to meet the following
conditions.
         (a)   Storm inlets shall be placed at the low points of roads and
shall accept the ten-year storm volume with not more than one-half foot of
water pooling above the inlet.
         (b)   On-site storm runoff detention shall be provided so as to
restrict the outlet of stormwater at a ten-year, pre-developed runoff rate for
a 100- year, post-developed storm event.
         (c)   Storm pipes and culverts shall have a minimum diameter of 12
inches.
         (d)   Drainage swales shall have a minimum longitudinal slope of 1%.
   (E)   Floodway areas. If a subdivision of land is proposed within the
floodplain, then floodways shall be preserved and not diminished in capacity by
filling or obstruction except as approved in writing by the state’s Natural
Resources Commission. No residential building site may be located within the
floodway.
   (F)   Floodway fringe areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an area
of the floodplain designated as a floodway fringe, the Commission may approve
such subdivision provided that:
      (1)   All streets are elevated sufficiently to be above the regulatory
flood elevation;
      (2)   All lots for residential usage have a flood protection grade that
is two feet above the regulatory flood elevation;
      (3)   Where provided, water and sanitary sewer facilities are constructed
to eliminate contamination of or by floodwater;
      (4)   Approval to fill the area from the state’s Natural Resources
Commission has been obtained in writing; and
      (5)   Lands below the regulatory flood elevation shall not be used for
computing the area requirement for any lot.
   (G)   Floodplain areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an area of
the floodplain for which floodway and floodway fringe designations have not
been made, the Commission shall not approve such subdivision unless:
      (1)   All streets are raised sufficiently to be above the regulatory
flood elevation;
      (2)   All lots for residential usage have a flood protection grade of two
feet above the regulatory flood elevation;
      (3)   Where provided, public water and sanitary sewer facilities are
constructed so as to eliminate contamination of or by floodwater;
      (4)   Filling to achieve the provisions of divisions (G)(1) through (G)
(3) above will not raise the level of the regulatory flood elevation more than
one-tenth of one foot for that reach of the stream. All filling in the
floodplain must be approved in writing by the state’s Natural Resources
Commission; and
      (5)   Lands below the regulatory flood elevation shall not be used for
computing the area requirement for any lot.
   (H)   Recording of plats in the floodplain and floodwav fringe. All final
plats having within their boundaries areas whose elevation is below that of the
regulatory flood elevation shall show and label the regulatory flood boundary
and elevation as of the date the final plat is drawn on the final plat for
recording.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.117 DEDICATION OF DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   Where topography or other conditions are such so as to make impractical the
inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way, perpetual,
unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for such drainage facilities
shall be provided across property outside of the right-of-way lines and with
satisfactory access to the street. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
Drainage easements shall be carried from the street to a natural watercourse or
other drainage facility. The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by
drainage or conservation, easement land on both sides of existing watercourses
of a width to be determined by the Commission and, in the case of legal drains,
the county’s Drainage Board.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.130 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Before the final plat of any subdivided area shall be approved, signed and
recorded, the subdivider shall construct all improvements as required by this
chapter in accordance with the approved preliminary plat and construction
plans, except as allowed by §
155.131 of this chapter. Improvements shall include the construction of all
streets, sidewalks, public utilities and grading as required to properly
develop the building lots. Improvements shall be performed to the satisfaction
of the Commission and the Town Council.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.131 POSTING OF BONDS.
   (A)   At the discretion of the Commission, the requirements for the
completion of improvements as described in §
155.130 of this chapter may be waived provided that the subdivider posts a
performance bond in an amount equal to 100% of the value of any improvements
remaining to be completed. The value of such work shall be established by the
Commission based on a reasonable estimate of construction costs. The bond shall
be securable to the town and is intended to provide reasonable assurance to the
town of the satisfactory construction of the uncompleted portion of the
required public improvements. Under the provisions of accepting a performance
bond, the town shall require the applicant to enter into a contract
guaranteeing the completion of all public improvements within one year of
posting the bond. In the event of unforeseen circumstances, an additional time
period for development beyond the one-year requirement may be negotiated.
   (B)   In lieu of a performance bond, the applicant may provide the town with
a certified check in an amount equal to 100% of the estimated cost of
completion of the uncompleted portion of the required public improvements.
   (C)   A performance bond furnished pursuant to this section shall comply
with all statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the Town Attorney
as to form, sufficiency and manner of execution as set forth in this section.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.132 INSPECTION.
   (A)   When the construction plans have been approved as provided in this
chapter, the subdivider shall first notify the Administrator of his or her
intention to proceed with the construction and installation of improvements.
Notification shall be made at least 24 hours before any such construction or
installation commences so as to give the Administrator or his or her designated
person or persons an opportunity to inspect the site prior to the commencement
of work and to inspect the installation or construction of said streets and
improvements during the course of the work being performed.
   (B)   The Administrator or his or her agent shall have the right to
periodically inspect the required improvements during construction to ensure
their satisfactory completion.
   (C)   If the Administrator finds upon inspection that any of the required
improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the accepted
construction standards and specifications, then the subdivider shall be
responsible for the removal and replacement of said improvements.
   (D)   Whenever the cost of improvements is covered by a performance bond,
the subdivider and the bonding company shall be severally and jointly liable
for completing the improvements according to specifications.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.133 ACCEPTANCE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   After streets and improvements have been installed and constructed pursuant
to the requirements contained in this chapter, in the event the subdivider
desires to have the town accept said streets or improvements, the subdivider
shall notify the Commission that the construction or installation has been
completed and shall supply the town with a minimum of four copies of the as-
built plan on which the streets or improvements in question have been
constructed or installed. The portion of street or improvement which the
subdivider desires to have the town accept shall be shaded or colored on each
of the four copies.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.134 RELEASE OR REDUCTION OF PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   The Commission shall not accept required public improvements nor
release or reduce a performance bond until the Town Council has submitted a
certificate stating that all required improvements have been satisfactorily
completed and the subdivision engineer has certified to the Commission that the
layout of all public improvements is in accordance with the construction plans
for the subdivision. The Town Council shall thereafter accept the improvements
for dedication in accordance with the established procedure.
   (B)   Prior to any street or other improvement being accepted by the town as
hereinafter provided, the subdivider shall post a maintenance bond or other
security naming the town as obligee in an amount not to exceed 10% of the cost
of all public improvements in order to ensure the maintenance of said
improvements for a period of at least 36 months from the date of acceptance by
the town.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.135 FAILURE TO COMPLETE PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   For subdivisions for which no performance bond has been posted, if the
public improvements are not completed within the period specified by the
Commission in the primary approval of the preliminary plat, or the sketch plan
in the case of a minor subdivision, then the approval shall be deemed to have
expired. In those cases where a performance bond has been posted and the
required improvements have not been installed, the Commission may request that
the town declare the bond to be in default and cause all public improvements to
be installed according to the secondary approval regardless of the extent of
building development at the time the bond is declared in default.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
DOCUMENTS
§ 155.150 SKETCH PLANS.
   (A)   Sketch plans submitted to the Commission, prepared in pen or pencil,
shall be drawn to a convenient scale of not more than 100 feet to an inch.
   (B)   Sketch plans shall show the following information:
      (1)   Subdivision name. Include the name of the subdivision if the
property is within an existing subdivision or the proposed name if not within a
previously-platted subdivision. The proposed name shall not duplicate the name
of any subdivision plat previously recorded nor of a subdivision plat for which
primary approval is still in effect. If no subdivision name has been chosen,
the name by which the property is known locally shall be used;
      (2)   Ownership.
         (a)   The name and address, including telephone number, of the legal
owner or agent of the property and citation of the last instrument conveying
title to each parcel of property involved in the proposed subdivision, giving
grantor, grantee, date and land record references;
         (b)   Citation of any existing legal rights-of-way or easements which
affect the property;
         (c)   A complete copy of any existing covenants on the property; and
         (d)   The name and address, including telephone number, of the
professional person or persons responsible for the subdivision design and the
design of the public improvements and surveys.
      (3)   Description. The location of property, name of local jurisdiction,
lot, section, township, range and county, graphic scale, north arrow and date;
and
      (4)   Features to be included.
         (a)   The location of property lines, existing easements, burial
grounds, railroad rights-of- way, watercourses and existing wooded areas or
trees eight inches or more in diameter; the location, width and names of all
existing or platted streets or other public ways within or immediately adjacent
to the tract and the names of adjacent and adjoining property owners taken from
the latest assessment rolls;
         (b)   The location, size, elevation and slope of existing sewers,
water mains, culverts and other underground structures within the tract and
immediately adjacent thereto; the existing permanent buildings and utility
poles on or immediately adjacent to the site and utility rights-of-way;
         (c)   The approximate topography at the same scale as the sketch plan;
while normally showing two-foot contour intervals, the Administrator may
require one-foot intervals on very flat land or permit five-foot intervals on
very steep slopes;
         (d)   The approximate locations and widths of proposed streets;
         (e)   Preliminary proposals for connecting with the existing water
supply and sanitary sewage systems or alternate means of providing water supply
and sanitary waste treatment and disposal; preliminary provisions for
collecting and discharging surface water drainage;
         (f)   The approximate dimensions, areas and locations of all proposed
or existing lots;
         (g)   The approximate locations, dimensions and areas of all parcels
of land proposed to be set aside for park or playground use, for other public
use or for the use of property owners in the proposed subdivision;
         (h)   The location of temporary stakes to enable the Commission to
find and appraise features of the sketch plan in the field;
         (i)   Whenever the sketch plan covers only a part of an applicant’s
contiguous holdings, the applicant shall submit, at a scale of not more than
200 feet to the inch, a sketch in pen or pencil of the proposed subdivision
area together with its proposed street system and an indication of the probable
future street and drainage system of the remaining portion of the tract; and
         (j)   A vicinity map showing streets and other general development of
the surrounding area; the sketch plan shall show all school and improvement
district lines with the zones properly designated.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.151 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor
at a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch with the sheets numbered in
sequence if there is more than one sheet. The preliminary plat shall be of such
size as is acceptable for filing in the office of the county’s Recorder but
shall not be larger than 24 by 36 inches.
   (B)   The preliminary plat shall show the following features and
information:
      (1)   The location of the property with respect to surrounding property
and streets, the names of all adjoining property owners of record or the names
of adjoining developments and the names of adjoining streets;
      (2)   The locations and dimensions of all boundary lines of the property,
to be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot;
      (3)   The location of existing streets, easements, water bodies, streams
and other pertinent features such as swamps, floodplains, railroads, buildings,
parks, cemeteries, drainage ditches and bridges, and the topography at the same
scale as the sketch plan;
      (4)   The locations, dimensions, bearings and areas of all proposed or
existing lots;
      (5)   The locations and widths of all existing and proposed streets,
alleys or other public ways and their rights-of-way, and of easements and
building set- back lines, utilities, fire hydrants and storm water facilities;
      (6)   The locations and dimensions of all property proposed to be set
aside for park or playground use, or other public or private reservations, with
designation of the purpose thereof and the conditions, if any, of the
dedication or reservation;
      (7)   The name and address of the owner or owners of the land to be
subdivided, the name and address of the subdivider, if other than the owner,
and the name and registration number of the land surveyor;
      (8)   The date of the map, approximate true- north point, scale and title
of the subdivisions;
      (9)   Sufficient data acceptable to the county’s Engineer to determine
readily the location, bearing and length of all lines and to reproduce such
lines upon the ground, as well as the location of all proposed monuments;
      (10)   The name of the subdivision and of all new streets, subject to
approval by the Commission;
      (11)   Indication of the use of any lot, such as single-family, two-
family, multi-family or townhouse, and of all uses other than residential as
proposed by the subdivider;
      (12)   Blocks, which shall be consecutively numbered or lettered in
alphabetical order; blocks in numbered additions to subdivisions which bear the
same name shall be numbered or lettered consecutively throughout the several
additions;
      (13)   All lots in each block, which shall be consecutively numbered, and
all outlots, which shall be lettered in alphabetical order; if blocks are
numbered or lettered, then outlots shall be lettered in alphabetical order
within each block; and
      (14)   All information required on the sketch plan should also be shown
on the preliminary plat, and the following notation shall also be shown:
         (a)   An explanation of drainage easements, if any;
         (b)   An explanation of site easements, if any;
         (c)   An explanation of site reservations, if any; and
         (d)   The endorsement of the owner.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.152 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   General construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements. Plans shall be drawn at a scale of not more than one inch equals
50 feet.
   (B)   Map sheets shall show:
      (1)   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevation lines of all
streets, and where a proposed street intersects an existing street or streets,
the elevation along the center line of the existing street or streets within
100 feet of the intersection shall also be shown; the radii of all curves,
lengths of tangents and central angles on all streets;
      (2)   The Commission may require, where steep slopes exist, that cross-
sections of all proposed streets at 100-foot stations be shown at five points
as follows: on a line at right angles to the center line of the street, and all
elevation points shall be at the center line of the street, each property line,
and points 25 feet inside each property line;
      (3)   Plans and profiles showing the location and typical cross-section
of street pavement including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage easements,
servitudes, rights-of-way, manholes and catch basins; the location of street
trees, street lighting standards and street signs; the location, size and
invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, stormwater drains
and fire hydrants, which also show the connection to any existing or proposed
utility systems; the exact location and size of all water, gas or other
underground utilities or structures;
      (4)   The location, size, elevation and other appropriate descriptions of
any existing facilities or utilities including, but not limited to, existing
streets, sewers, drains, water mains, easements, water bodies, streams,
floodplains and other pertinent features such as swamps, railroads, buildings
and utilities within the subdivision, and of each tree with a diameter of eight
inches or more; the water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the date
of the survey and the approximate high- and low-water elevations of such lakes
or streams, with all elevations being referred to the U.S.G.S. datum plane; if
the subdivision borders a lake, river or stream, then the distances and
bearings of a meander line established not less than 20 feet back from the
ordinary high-water mark of such waterways;
      (5)   The topography, at the same scale as the sketch plan, with a
contour interval of two feet, referred to the sea-level datum; All data
provided shall be the latest applicable U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey data and
should be so noted on the plat;
      (6)   All specifications and references required by the town’s
Construction Standards and specifications, including a site-grading plan for
the entire subdivision; and
      (7)   Name, address, registration number, signature and seal of the
professional engineer or surveyor and the date, including revision dates.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.153 FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   The final subdivision plat shall be presented on reproducible Mylar at
an appropriate scale and contain the same information as on the preliminary
plat, except for any changes or additions required by the conditions of primary
approval. The preliminary plat may be used as the final subdivision plat if it
meets these requirements and is revised in accordance with the Commission’s
approval. The final subdivision plat shall be prepared by a registered land
surveyor.
   (B)   All revision dates must be shown, as well as the following
information:
      (1)   A notation of any self-imposed restrictions and the location of any
building lines proposed to be established in this manner if required by the
Commission in accordance with this chapter; and
      (2)   All monuments erected and corners and other points established in
the field shall be shown and noted in their places on the plat. The legend for
metal monuments shall indicate the kind of metal and the diameter, length and
weight per lineal foot of the monuments.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter or any regulations
herein contained shall be given a “notice of violation”, at which time he or
she shall have ten days to correct such violation. After ten days, should the
violation not be corrected, then he or she shall be issued a “stop-work notice”
and fined $300 for each day in violation.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-3-2002)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
Enactment Provisions
   
156.001   Title
   
156.002   Interpretation and conflict
   
156.003   Saving provision
   
156.004   Exclusion
   
156.005   Effective date
   
156.006   Amendments
   
156.007   Violations and enforcement
   
156.008   Designation of the Administrator
   
156.009   Definitions
Districts
   
156.020   Establishment of districts
   
156.021   Boundaries, general
   
156.022   Boundaries, floodplain districts
   
156.023   Subdivisions, cluster developments, planned unit developments,
condominiums and zero lot line developments
   
156.024   Effect of annexation
Authorized Uses
   
156.035   Primary uses
   
156.036   Accessory uses
   
156.037   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
156.038   Home service and home occupations
   
156.039   Mobile home parks and manufactured home communities
Use Requirements and Restrictions
   
156.050   Height of structures
   
156.051   Maximum lot coverage, residential uses
   
156.052   Minimum lot size, residential uses
   
156.053   Minimum lot size, other uses
   
156.054   Standard setbacks
   
156.055   Height, yard and area exceptions
   
156.056   Restrictions along seams
   
156.057   Water pollution control
Off-street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
156.070   Reserved
   
156.071   Reserved
   
156.072   Required parking spaces
   
156.073   General parking space regulations
   
156.074   Off-street loading
   
156.075   Public parking areas
Signs
   
156.090   Purpose
   
156.091   Signs not requiring permits
   
156.092   On-premises signs
   
156.093   Outdoor advertising signs, billboards
Planned Unit Developments
   
156.105   Intent of districts
   
156.106   Organization of proposals
   
156.107   Classifications of planned unit developments
   
156.108   Pre-submission conference
   
156.109   Filing procedure
   
156.110   Review meeting
   
156.111   Preliminary plan submission requirements
   
156.112   Preliminary plan hearing and disposition
   
156.113   Submittal of final plans
   
156.114   Amendment of the approved final detailed plans
   
156.115   Lapsed and abandoned plan developments
Special Uses and Appeals
   
156.130   Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals, membership and jurisdiction
   
156.131   Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals, rules and procedures
   
156.132   Special uses
   
156.133   Variances
   
156.134   Appeals
Improvement Location Permits
   
156.145   Applicability
   
156.146   Certification of compliance
   
156.147   Site plan and construction drawings
   
156.148   Improvement location permits, industrial uses
   
156.149   Mobile homes
   
156.150   Records
   
156.151   Issuance or denial
   
156.152   Appeals
   
156.153   Expiration
   
156.154   Additional provisions for improvement location permits and
certificates of compliance
 
   
156.999   Penalty
ENACTMENT PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall hereafter be known and cited as the zoning ordinance
of the town.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.002 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Conflict with public and private provisions.
      (1)   Public provisions. This chapter is not intended to interfere with,
abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute or other
provision of law. Where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other provision of this chapter or any
other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, those provisions
which are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall control.
      (2)   Private provisions. This chapter is not intended to abrogate any
easement or covenant or any other private agreement or restriction provided
that where the provisions of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or regulations than such easement, covenant or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. Where
the provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement or restriction
impose more restrictive duties and obligations or higher standards than the
requirements of this chapter or of the determinations of the Commission in
enforcing this chapter, and such private provisions are not inconsistent with
this chapter or the determinations thereunder, then such private provisions
shall be operative and supplemental to this chapter and the determinations made
thereunder. Private provisions can only be enforced privately unless a public
agency such as the Town Council or Plan Commission has been made a party to
such agreements.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.003 SAVING PROVISION.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.004 EXCLUSION.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.005 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.006 AMENDMENTS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.007 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator and the town’s police force
to enforce this chapter and to bring any violations or lack of compliance to
the attention of the Town Attorney, who may file a complaint against the person
and prosecute the alleged violation. Any person may enjoin a violation of this
chapter by suit in a circuit or superior court of the county.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may require the removal of a structure
erected in violation of this chapter or the removal of any use or condition
permitted in violation of this chapter by a mandatory injunction in the circuit
court of the county against the owner or possessor of the real estate.
   (C)   A use which violates this chapter shall be treated as if it were a
common nuisance, and the owner or possessor of the structure, land or premises
upon which the use is maintained shall be liable for such nuisance.
   (D)   No improvement location permit or building permit required under the
Uniform Building Code or this chapter shall be issued on any property subject
to this chapter in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the contrary and
in addition to other provisions of this chapter, if the Board of Zoning Appeals
or the town is required to utilize the services of the Town Attorney or of
another attorney in investigating a possible violation of this chapter or in
enforcing the provisions of this chapter before any board or court and such
investigation results in a determination that a violation has occurred, or the
Board of Zoning Appeals or the town is successful in its enforcement of this
chapter by way of suit, appeal or other appropriate proceeding, then the
defendant or party investigated for a violation shall pay the town’s reasonable
attorney fees and other costs related to the investigation of the violation or
the enforcement of this chapter unless such attorney fees or costs are
specifically waived by the Town Council.
   (F)   As to any appeal from a decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals, costs
may not be allowed against the Board of Zoning Appeals unless it appears to the
court that the Board acted with gross negligence or in bad faith in making the
decision brought up for review.
   (G)   The Administrator, his or her staff and any person or persons
assisting the Administrator in the application and enforcement of this chapter
are hereby authorized to go onto private property for the purpose of conducting
inspections required by this chapter or by any order of the Plan Commission or
the Board of Zoning Appeals and as required to determine if this chapter is
being violated or to enforce this chapter. Such inspection or inspections shall
occur at reasonable times and shall be conducted in a manner so as not to
disturb the peace.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002; Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 156.008 DESIGNATION OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council shall designate the Administrator for the purpose of
implementing this chapter, and the town’s police force shall have the primary
responsibility for enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 156.009 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental to the principal use of a building. In
buildings restricted to residential use, the office of a professional person,
customary family occupations and workshops not conducted for compensation shall
be deemed ACCESSORY USES.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The officer appointed by or delegated the responsibility for
the administration of this chapter by the Town Council.
   ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION. A planning commission serving a single local
government jurisdiction and established as defined under I.C. 36-7-1-2. The
town’s Plan Commission is an ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
   ALLEY. A public way which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A building providing more than two rooms or suites of rooms
designed as a single-family dwelling, with each including culinary
accommodations.
   APPLICANT. The fee simple owner of land who makes application to the Plan
Commission for action by said Commission thereby affecting said land.
   [Reserved]
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street which provides through-traffic at higher speeds
and service than a local street or a collector street. ARTERIAL STREETS are not
designed to “calm” traffic; their purpose is to move traffic through.
   BUILDING LINE. The line which establishes the minimum permitted distance on
a lot between the front line of a building and the street right-of-way line.
   BUILDING PERMIT. See IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   CAMPGROUND. Any site, lot, field or tract of land under single ownership or
the ownership of two or more people which is designed with facilities for
short-term occupancy by recreational vehicles and other camping equipment, but
not including mobile homes.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when
such are operated in conjunction with and within the boundaries of such
CEMETERY.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. An occupancy permit as cited in I.C. 36-7-4-801
and I.C. 36-7-4-802. A CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE is commonly understood to be a
final approval resulting from satisfying all terms of the applicable permits.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A state-licensed or exempted facility in a nonresidential
structure where one or more individuals provide child care for any number of
children, in a residentially-occupied residential structure where individuals
provide child care for 11 or more children at any time or in a
nonresidentially-occupied residential structure for six or more children at any
time.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which collects local streets to higher-
classification roads.
   COMMISSION. The Advisory Plan Commission of the town.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The official, comprehensive plan of the town as may be
amended. Such plan is used as a guideline in developing this chapter.
   CONDOMINIUM. Real estate lawfully subjected to I.C. 32-25 et seq., the
Horizontal Property Law, by the recordation of condominium instruments, in
which undivided interests in the common areas and facilities are vested in the
condominium unit owners.
   CONSTRUCTIONS STANDARDS. The Construction Standards for Subdivisions and
Development as adopted by Ordinance No. 2002-13, and as may be amended from
time to time.
   DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE. A panel established by the town to provide
technical services to the Plan Commission in administering this chapter.
   DETACHED BUILDING. A building that has no structural connection with another
building.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the town for which the regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises, and for which the height and area
of buildings, are uniform.
   DRIVES, PRIVATE. Vehicular streets and driveways, paved or unpaved, which
are wholly within private property except where they intersect with public
streets within public rights-of-way.
   DWELLING. A building or a portion thereof which is used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family and multiple-family dwellings but
not including hotels, lodging or boarding houses or tourist homes.
   EASEMENT. A portion or strip of land which is part of a lot or parcel but
has been reserved for a specific use or for the access of persons, utilities or
services.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit.
   FARM. An area used for agricultural operations including truck gardening,
forestry, the operating of a tree or plant nursery or the production of
livestock and poultry.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. Those floodplains which have not been adequately
protected from flooding caused by the regulatory flood and which are shown on
the zoning map, on the flood hazard or floodway-flood boundary maps of the
Federal Insurance Administration or on maps provided to the Commission from the
state’s Natural Resources Commission.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the lowest floor of a building,
including the basement, which shall be two feet above the elevation of the
regulatory flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining a river or stream which has been or may
hereafter be covered by floodwater from the regulatory flood.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside of the floodway
which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
   FOUNDATION. The supporting member of a wall or structure which is situated
in the ground.
   FRONT LOT LINE. For an interior or through lot, the line marking the
boundary between the lot and the abutting street, lake or watercourse, and for
a corner lot, the line marking the boundary between the lot and the shorter of
the two abutting street segments.
   FRONT YARD. The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building to the right-of- way line and said right-of-way line, which extends to
the side lines of the lot and is measured as the shortest distance from that
foundation to the right-of-way line. For a corner lot, the FRONT YARD shall be
that yard abutting the street upon which the lot has its least frontage, except
as deed restrictions specify otherwise.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An enclosed space for the storage of one or more motor
vehicles provided that no business, occupation or serve is conducted for profit
therein, nor that space for more than one car is leased therein to a
nonresident of the premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage other than a private garage which is available to
the public, operated for gain and used for the storage, repair, rental,
servicing or equipping of automobiles or other motor vehicles.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The square-feet area of a residential building within its
largest outside dimensions computed on a horizontal plane at the ground floor
level, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages and exterior
stairways.
   HEIGHT. With respect to a building, the vertical distance from the lot’s
ground level to the highest point for a flat roof, to the deck line for a
mansard roof and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for a gable, hip
or gambrel roof.
   HOSPITAL. A building used for the diagnosis, treatment or other care of
human ailments, unless otherwise specified.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or a portion thereof which is used for the more-
or-less temporary occupancy of individuals who are lodged, whether with or
without meals.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. Written permission issued by the Administrator
or his or her designee to permit a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, demolish or
add to any building or structure within its jurisdiction, to cause the same to
be done or to change the use or condition of the land.
   LAUNDERETTE. A business premises which is equipped with individual clothes
washing machines for the use of retail customers, but which is exclusive of
laundry facilities provided as an accessory use in an apartment house or an
apartment hotel.
   LOCAL STREET. A street which provides access to houses.
   LOT. A tract, plot or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or building development.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, with the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees. A lot with
streets abutting more than two sides shall also be a CORNER LOT.
   LOT COVERAGE. The horizontal area of all buildings on a lot as a percentage
of the lot area.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the side lot lines as measured on the
building line.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision
including, but not limited to, subdivisions of four or more lots or a
subdivision of any size requiring any new street, an extension of the local
government facilities or the creation of any public improvements.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit designed and built in a
factory and installed as a permanent residence which bears a seal certifying
that it was built in compliance with the federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., and
which also complies with the following specifications:
      (1)   Shall have been constructed after January 1, 1981, and must exceed
950 square feet of occupied space;
      (2)   Is attached to a permanent foundation of masonry construction and
has a permanent perimeter enclosure constructed in accordance with the One- and
Two-Family Dwelling Code; and
      (3)   Has the wheels, axles and towing chassis removed.
   MEDICAL CLINIC. An establishment where patients are admitted for special
study and treatment by two or more licensed physicians and their professional
associates practicing medicine together.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than three lots which
fronts on an existing street which is an improved right-of-way maintained by
the town or other local government, and one not involving any new streets or
the creation of any public improvements, not adversely affecting the remainder
of the parcel or adjoining properties and not in conflict with any provision or
portion of the town’s Comprehensive Plan or zoning ordinance.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle without motive power which is designed by the
manufacturer or maker with hitch and undercarriage so as to permit the
attachment of axles and wheels designed to permit it to be used as a conveyance
upon public streets and highways and which is so designed, constructed or
reconstructed as will permit the vehicle to be used as a single-family
dwelling, but not one qualifying under the definition of manufactured home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK/MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY (MHP/MHC). A site with required
improvements and utilities containing four or more mobile home park or
manufactured home park lots which may include services and facilities for its
residents, and within which recreational vehicles and tents shall not be used
as places of abode.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling, on a separate lot, containing more than
two dwelling units.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure or use of land existing at the time
of enactment of this chapter which does not conform to the regulations of the
district or zone in which it is situated.
   NURSING HOME or CONVALESCENT HOME. Any dwelling with less than 15 sleeping
rooms where persons are housed or lodged and furnished with meals and nursing
care for hire.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area other than a street which is used for the
temporary parking of more than four automobiles and is available for public
use, whether free, for compensation or as an accommodation for clients or
customers.
   PARKING SPACE (OFF-STREET). A space other than a street, but accessible from
a street or alley, which is used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle
and is not less than nine feet wide and 20 feet long, exclusive of passageways.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A unified development meeting the requirements for
zoning approval under the provisions of §§
156.105 through
156.115 of this chapter.
   PLAT. A map indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land which is
filed or intended to be filed for record with the county’s Recorder.
   PRIMARY ARTERIAL. A street intended to move through-traffic to and from such
major attractors as central business districts, regional shopping centers,
colleges and universities, military installations, major industrial areas and
similar traffic generators within the town or as a route for traffic between
communities.
   PRIMARY USE. The principal, predominate use of real estate.
   PRIMARY-USE BUILDING. A building, including any other building attached in a
substantial way, such as by a roof, in which the primary use of the lot or
parcel is conducted. For single-family and two-family residential uses, it is
the main dwelling or dwellings. For multi-family residential uses, it is all
dwelling units. Only one PRIMARY-USE BUILDING is permitted per lot or parcel.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. The office of a member of one of the recognized
professions, said professions being minister, attorney, dentist, engineer,
physician, surgeon, licensed real estate broker, licensed broker and public
accountant.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between properties, both public
and private, which is evidenced by a certified stake survey or by recorded
agreement between all adjoining landowners.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, street, highway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement or other
facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established. All such
IMPROVEMENTS shall be properly bonded.
   REAR LOT LINE. For an interior or corner lot, the lot line which is opposite
the front lot line and farthest from it; for a triangular or other irregularly-
shaped lot, the REAR LOT LINE IS the line ten feet long, parallel to the front
lot line and wholly within the lot which is farthest from the front lot line.
   REAR YARD. A yard as defined herein which encompasses the horizontal space
between the nearest foundation of a building to a rear lot line and that rear
lot line and extends to the side lines of the lot, measured as the shortest
distance from the foundation to the rear lot line. The REAR YARD of a corner
lot shall be that yard at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A portable vehicular structure designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel and vacation uses which is identified as a travel trailer
or motor home by the manufacturer of the unit and which is of a size that is
street legal.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a peak discharge which can be equaled or
exceeded on an average of once in a 100-year period as calculated by a method
and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the state’s Natural
Resources Commission; this flood is equivalent to a flood having a 1%
probability of occurrence in any given year.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream, those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream and the area covered by floodwaters in significant downstream motion or
covered by significant volumes of stored water during the occurrence of the
regulatory flood.
   SECONDARY ARTERIAL. A street intended to collect and distribute traffic in a
manner similar to primary arterials, except such streets service minor traffic-
generating areas such as major recreational areas, community-commercial areas,
churches, offices and hospitals or are designed to carry traffic from collector
streets to the system of primary arterials.
   SETBACK. A line parallel to and equidistant from the relevant lot line,
front, back or side, between which no buildings may be erected as prescribed in
this chapter.
   SIDE LOT LINE. Any line separating two lots other than front or rear lot
lines.
   SIDE YARD. The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a building
to the side lot line and that side lot line which is unoccupied other than by
architectural appurtenances projecting not more than 24 inches into that space.
   SIGN. A visual device or structure used for advertising, display or
publicity purposes.
   SIGN, PORTABLE OR FREESTANDING. Any sign designed to be moved from one
location to another which is not permanently affixed to the ground or to a
structure, or which is affixed by means of tie-down straps or stakes.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign which by its intention, design, construction,
location, method, placement or other considerations could be construed as
having a defined period of usefulness.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building, on a separate lot, containing one
dwelling unit.
   SPECIAL USE. The authorization of a use which is designated by this chapter
as being permitted in the district concerned if it meets special conditions and
which, upon application, is specifically authorized by the Advisory Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   STREET. A right-of-way purchased by a governmental unit or established by a
recorded plat which is publicly maintained so as to provide the principal means
of access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on or in
the ground or an attachment to something having a location on or in the ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots,
parcels, sites, units, plats or interests for the purpose of offer, sale, lease
or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions, including resubdivision.
   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS. The subdivision regulations of the town as adopted
by Ordinance No. 2002-13 and as may be amended from time to time.
   SWIMMING POOL. An aboveground or in- ground pool which is not dismantled
seasonally, meaning for less than six months, is at least 18 inches deep and is
used for recreational purposes.
   TRADE SCHOOL or BUSINESS SCHOOL. Secretarial schools or colleges, business
schools or colleges when not public and not owned or conducted by or under the
sponsorship of a religious or charitable organization and schools conducted as
commercial enterprises for teaching instrumental music, dancing, barbering or
hairdressing or for teaching industrial skills, whereby machinery is employed
as a means of instruction.
   USE. The employment or occupation of a building, structure or land for a
person’s service, benefit or enjoyment.
   USE VARIANCE. The approval of a use other than that prescribed by this
chapter. Changes of allowed uses are not permitted by this chapter except by
zoning map amendment.
   VARIANCE. A specific approval which is granted by the Advisory Board of
Zoning Appeals in the manner prescribed by this chapter to deviate from the
development standards, such as height, bulk or area, which this chapter
otherwise prescribes.
   YARD. An open space other than a court which is on the same lot with a
building and is unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a building from
the ground upward except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a YARD for
the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard
or the depth of a rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot
line and the building shall be used.
   ZONE or DISTRICT. A section of the territory under the jurisdiction of the
town for which uniform regulations governing the use, height, area, size and
intensity of use of buildings, land and open spaces about buildings are herein
established.
   ZONE MAP. The map of the town’s zones adopted July 27, 1955, and amended
June 2001, and any such future amendments to said map.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002; Ord. 2005-1, passed 2-1-2005; Ord. 2005-5,
passed 11-1-2005; Ord. 2008-5, passed 11-4-2008)
DISTRICTS
§ 156.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, comfort, convenience
and general public welfare, the town is hereby divided into the following types
of districts.
District Description
District Description
A        Agricultural, to include areas where agricultural production and
         operations are expected
         General business district, to include areas which are appropriate for
B1       all kinds of business such as the general exchange of merchandise,
         goods or services associated with retail businesses
         Local business district, to include areas that are close to
B2       residential areas and appropriate to meeting their shopping and
         service needs
C1       Commercial and wholesale district, to include areas for warehousing
         and bulk-storage facilities in addition to commercial businesses
         Floodplain district, established to include lowland areas adjacent to
FP       lakes and ponds and areas which are within the floodplains of rivers
         or creeks and are subject to inundation and damage from floodwaters up
         to the regulatory flood elevation
I        Industrial district, to include areas for light and heavy industrial
         uses
         Planned unit development district, established for the purpose of
PD       allowing mixed-use developments as set forth in §§
         156.105 through
         156.115 of this chapter
         Residential district, to include areas of low-density single-family
R1       residences with a density of two and one-half dwelling units or less
         per gross acre
         Residential district, to include areas for medium-density single-
R2       family residences with a density of four dwelling units or less per
         gross acre
         Residential district, to include areas for high-density single-family,
R3       two-family and multi-family residential developments with a density of
         eight dwelling units or less per gross acre
         Residential district, to include areas for high-density single-family,
R4       two-family and multi-family residential developments with a density of
         eight dwelling units or more per gross acre
 
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.021 BOUNDARIES, GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   The boundaries of the districts established by §
156.020 of this chapter are as shown on the zone map, which is a part of this
chapter and hereafter known as the official zoning map for the town. Said
official zoning map shall be kept in the custody of the Utility Office.
      (2)   Except as provided by §
156.022 of this chapter, such boundaries and the official zoning map shall be
changed only by amendment to the official zoning map. Upon such amendment and
within five days of passage of such amendment, the town shall certify a copy of
such amendment to the Administrator, who shall immediately change the official
zoning map in accordance with such amendment.
   (B)   When the exact boundaries of a district are uncertain, they shall be
determined by use of the scale of the zoning map. When the map is caused to be
changed by amendment, the change shall be to the center of any and all abutting
rights-of-way.
   (C)   If the boundary line of a district divides a lot having frontage on a
street so that the front part of the lot lies in one district and the rest of
the lot lies in another, then use requirements and restrictions that apply to
the front of the lot apply to the entire lot.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.022 BOUNDARIES, FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The boundary of an FP district may be changed if the state’s Natural
Resources Commission, after investigating the land involved, determines that
the requested change would not endanger the public welfare and the elevation of
such land is at or above the elevation of the regulatory flood.
      (2)   Such determination shall be made in writing upon the request of the
applicant, who shall provide the state’s Natural Resources Commission with a
scale drawing identifying the location, dimensions and elevations related to
the acceptable vertical datum.
   (B)   (1)   If the land within the boundary of an FP district is certified
by a registered land surveyor or registered professional engineer as having an
elevation at or above the regulatory flood elevation as determined by the
state’s Natural Resources Commission, then that area of land so certified will
be removed from the FP designation and become zoned the same as are the
adjacent areas on the zoning map. Should the adjacent areas contain more than
one zoning district, then the line dividing those existing districts shall be
extended through the land so removed from the FP district.
      (2)   Should an area certified as having a natural ground elevation at or
above that of the regulatory flood be adjacent to no district other than FP
district, that is, be surrounded by floodplain, then it will be designated A,
Agriculture, until or unless the legislative body alters that designation by
ordinance. However, in no case shall an area derive A zoning from its adjacency
to land removed by certification from the FP district if the area also abuts
another zoning classification; in such cases, it shall derive its zoning from
said adjacent district.
   (C)   Buildings permitted on lands within 100 feet of the FP district shall
be required to comply with the flood protection grade as established by the
state’s Natural Resources Commission.
   (D)   All lands within the floodplain having an elevation below that
elevation determined by the state’s Natural Resources Commission to be the
regulatory flood elevation for that location shall be in the FP district.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.023 SUBDIVISIONS, CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS,
CONDOMINIUMS AND ZERO LOT LINE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The subdivision of land pursuant to the requirements of the
town’s subdivision control ordinance shall be permitted in districts A, FP, R1,
R2, R3, R4, B1, B2, C1 and I. The intended principal use of each of the lots
within a proposed subdivision shall govern the specific district appropriate
for the land to be subdivided as per §
156.035 of this chapter.
      (2)   The following classifications of subdivisions shall only be
permitted in R1, R2, R3 or R4 districts:
         (a)   Major subdivisions intended entirely for residential use; and
         (b)   Any portions of major subdivisions intended for residential use.
   (B)   (1)   As per §
156.107 of this chapter, planned unit developments shall be permitted only in
districts PDRS, PDNR and PDMX.
      (2)   In order to provide greater design flexibility and encourage
innovative land development techniques and a more efficient use of land, the
design and development of uses within these districts may deviate from the
standards prescribed by the town’s subdivision control ordinance and §§
156.050 through
156.055 and
156.070 through
156.075 of this chapter.
      (3)   Condominiums as defined and regulated in the Horizontal Property
Law, I.C. 32-25 et seq., cluster developments and zero lot line developments
shall be considered to be planned unit developments for zoning purposes and
shall consequently be permitted only in PD districts.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.024 EFFECT OF ANNEXATION.
   All land or territory which may hereinafter be annexed into the town shall
be considered to be in the R1 single-family district until or unless otherwise
classified by the annexation ordinance.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
AUTHORIZED USES
§ 156.035 PRIMARY USES.
   Primary uses are authorized in the districts established by §
156.020 of this chapter in accordance with the table below. Uses not
specifically identified herein shall require consideration as a “special use”
under the provisions of §
156.132 of this chapter.
   (A)   Where uses are designated by an “X” in the table below, such uses
shall be permitted in that zoning district.
   (B)   Where uses are designated by an “S” in the table below, such uses
shall be permitted only if a special use has been approved under §
156.132 of this chapter.
            District in Which Permitted
Primary Use R1 R2 R3 R4 B1 B2 C1 I A
                                               District in Which Permitted
Primary Use                                    R1 R2 R3 R4 B1 B2 C1 I A
Agricultural:
Commercial greenhouse                                      X     X    X
Farm                                                          X     X X
Business, automotive services:
Automotive sales and service                               X     X
Car wash                                                   X     X
Gas station, with repair                                   X     X
Gas station, without repair                                X  S  X
Motor vehicle repair                                       X     X
Business, food sales and services:
Grocery, including convenience stores                      X  X  X
Other similar uses                                         X  S  X
Restaurant, with alcohol                                   X     X
Restaurant, without alcohol                                X  X  X
Wholesale produce                                          X  X  X    X
Business, miscellaneous:
Bank                                                       X  X  X
Cellular, communications, radio and other such                   X  X
towers
Farm equipment and sales                                   X  X  X    X
Hospital or medical center                              S  X  X  X
Hotel, motel or bed and breakfast                          X     X
Large-scale shopping center                                      X
Mortuary                                                   X
Professional offices                           X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Veterinary hospital                                        X     X
Warehouse                                                        X  X
Business, recreational:
Bowling alley                                              X     X
Golf course                                    S  S  S  S             X
Indoor theater                                             X  X  X
Other similar uses                                         X     X
Private club or lodge                                   X  X  X
Business, retail sales:
Antique shop                                               X     X
Department or drug store                                   X     X
Hardware store                                             X  X  X
Liquor store                                               X     X
Other similar uses                                         X  S  X
Retail shop or store                                       X  X  X
Industrial:
General industry                                                    X
Light industry                                             X     X  X
Recycling center                                                    X
Public facilities:
Church or similar place of worship                X  X  X  X  X       X
Daycare center                                             X  X  X
Government offices                                         X  X  X
Police or fire station                         S  S  X  X  X  X       X
Public library or museum                          S  S  S  X  X       X
Public park or playground                      X  X  X  X  X  X       X
School, public, private or parochial           X  X  X  X  X  X       X
Residential:
Boarding or lodging house                               X  X  X
Group home                                              X     X
Manufactured home                              X  X  X  X     X
Mobile home*                                   S  S  S  S  X     X
Multi-family dwelling                                X  X
Nursing home                                            X     X
Single-family dwelling                         X  X  X  X  X  X       X
Two-family dwelling                                  X  X             X
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Permitted only as a temporary structure subject to the provisions of §
156.149
 
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.036 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses such as the following are authorized in all districts,
subject to the provisions of any and all recorded restrictive covenants running
with the land:
   (A)   Bird baths and bird houses;
   (B)   Accessory buildings;
   (C)   Driveways;
   (D)   Fences and hedges;
   (E)   Lamp posts;
   (F)   Mailboxes;
   (G)   Name plates;
   (H)   Parking spaces;
   (I)   Private swimming pools;
   (J)   Public utility installations for local service (such as poles, lines,
hydrants and the like);
   (K)   Retaining walls;
   (L)   Trees, shrubs, plants and flowers; and
   (M)   Walks.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.037 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Within the districts established by this chapter or by amendments
which may later be adopted, there may exist:
         (a)   Nonconforming lots;
         (b)   Nonconforming structures;
         (c)   Nonconforming uses of land;
         (d)   Nonconforming uses of land and structures in combination; and
         (e)   Nonconforming characteristics of use.
      (2)   These were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended but are
prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this chapter, or may be
under future amendments hereto. It is the intent of this chapter to permit
these nonconforming uses to continue until they are removed but not to
encourage their survival. Furthermore, it is the intent of this chapter that
nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be
used as grounds for adding other structures or uses which are prohibited
elsewhere in the same district.
      (3)   The restrictions on nonconforming uses stated in this section do
not apply to agricultural land in a nonconforming-use status if the land was
used for agricultural production before being classified as a nonconforming
use. The land must remain in agricultural production for any three-year period
out of a five-year period.
   (B)   Incompatibility of nonconforming uses. Nonconforming uses are declared
by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts in
which such uses are located. A nonconforming use of a structure, land or a
structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after
passage of this chapter by the attachment on a building or premises of
additional signs intended to be seen from off of the premises or by the
addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally prohibited in the
district in which such uses are located.
   (C)   Avoidance of undue hardship. To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction or
designated use of any building or development on which actual construction was
lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter and upon which actual building construction has been carried on
diligently. Where demolition or removal of an existing building has been
substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such demolition or removal shall
be deemed to be actual construction provided that the work shall be carried on
diligently. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined as work done which is beyond
the preparation stage and into that stage where the changes or additions are
made permanent.
   (D)   Single nonconforming lots of record. In any district in which single-
family dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary
accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record after the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter notwithstanding any
limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter. Such lots must be in
separate ownership or included in a subdivision of record in the office of the
county’s Recorder at the time of passage of this chapter. This provision shall
apply even if such lots fail to meet the requirements for area or width, or
both, which are generally applicable in the district provided that yard
dimensions and requirements other than those applying to the area or width, or
both, of the lots shall conform to the regulations for the district in which
such lots are located; see §
156.052(C) of this chapter. Variances of requirements listed in §§
156.050 through
156.093 of this chapter other than lot area or lot width shall be obtained only
through action of the Board of Zoning Appeals as provided in §
156.133 of this chapter.
   (E)   Nonconforming lots of record in combination. If two or more lots or a
combination of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single
ownership are of record at the time of passage or amendment of this chapter,
and if all or part of the lots with no buildings do not meet the requirements
established for lot width and area, then the lands involved shall be considered
to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this chapter, and no portion of
said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with
the lot width and lot area requirements established by this chapter, nor shall
any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with a width or area
below the requirements stated in this chapter.
   (F)   Nonconforming uses of land. Where lawful uses of land exist at the
time of adoption of this chapter which would not be permitted by the
regulations imposed by this chapter, the uses may be continued so long as they
remain otherwise lawful, provided that:
      (1)   No such nonconforming uses shall be enlarged, increased or extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter;
      (2)   No such nonconforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to
any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such uses at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter;
      (3)   Except for when government action impedes access to the premises,
if any such nonconforming uses of land are discontinued or abandoned for more
than one year, then any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the
regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land is
located; and
      (4)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land.
   (G)   Nonconforming structures. Where a lawful structure exists on the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter which could not now be
built under the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, bulk or other requirements
concerning the structure, such structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its nonconformity.
      (2)   Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means to the extent of more than 50% of the fair
market value of the building immediately prior to the damage, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
Structures made nonconforming by an action of the government, such as a right-
of-way purchase, are not subject to this restriction.
      (3)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
   (H)   Nonconforming uses of structures or of structures and land in
combination. If a lawful use involving an individual structure or a structure
and land in combination exists on the effective date of adoption or amendment
of this chapter which would not now be allowed in the district under the terms
of this chapter, then the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this
chapter in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      (2)   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
      (3)   Any structure or any structure and land in combination in or on
which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter
conform to the regulations for the district. The nonconforming use may not
thereafter be resumed.
      (4)   Except for when government action impedes access to the premises,
when a nonconforming use of a structure or of a structure and land in
combination is discontinued or abandoned for more than one year, the structure
or structure and land in combination shall not thereafter be used except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (5)   Where nonconforming-use status applies to a structure and land in
combination, the removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
   (I)   Repairs and maintenance.
      (1)   In any period of 12 consecutive months, on any nonconforming
structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use, work may be
done on ordinary repairs or on the repair or replacement of non-bearing walls,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing to an extent not exceeding 30%of the current
replacement cost of the nonconforming structure and market value of the real
estate or of the nonconforming portion of the structure in any three- year
period, whichever the case may be, provided that the cubic content existing
when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof
declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety
upon the order of such official. If a nonconforming structure or portion of a
structure containing a nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful
by reason of physical condition, then it shall not thereafter be restored,
repaired or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.038 HOME SERVICE AND HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. This section authorizes as home occupations all uses which
conform with its standards. In general, a home occupation is an accessory use
located and conducted in such a way so that neighbors, under normal
circumstances, would be unaware of its existence except for a sign. Home
occupations conforming to the requirements of divisions (B) and (C) below are
permitted in any non- rural zone which authorizes the dwelling unit to which
the home occupation is accessory and in rural zones on lots up to two acres in
area.
   (B)   Home occupation requirements. In addition to all other requirements
applicable in the zone in which such are located, all home occupations are
subject to the following.
      (1)   No alteration shall be made to the exterior of the primary-use
building or to the lot which changes the residential character of the building
or lot.
      (2)   The operator of a home occupation shall be a resident of the
dwelling unit, and no employees are allowed who are not residents of that
dwelling unit.
      (3)   A home occupation shall not involve construction features or the
use of any electrical and mechanical equipment or combustible materials which
would change the fire-separation requirements of the primary-use building.
      (4)   There can be no activity or storage of any kind related to the home
occupation outside the primary-use building.
      (5)   A home occupation shall provide an additional off-street parking
area adequate to accommodate the needs created by the home occupation. This
area shall contain at least one parking space, which shall be in addition to
the parking spaces required for the dwelling unit. This parking space shall be
provided on the same lot as the home occupation; it may be located in the front
setback but not in the right-of-way.
   (C)   Permitted home occupations. Home occupations may include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the following:
      (1)   Dressmaker, seamstress or tailor;
      (2)   One-station barber or beauty shop;
      (3)   Home craft, such as model making, cabinet and furniture making,
antique restoration and furniture upholstering;
      (4)   Office facility of a member of the clergy;
      (5)   Office facility of a sales representative, salesperson or
manufacturer’s representative, provided that no retail or wholesale goods are
stored or exchanged; or
      (6)   Office facility of an accountant, architect, artist, broker,
engineer, insurance agent, land surveyor, lawyer, musician, real estate agent,
telecommuter or member of the recognized counseling professions.
   (D)   Prohibited home occupations. For reasons of incompatibility with
permitted uses or violations of the neighborhood character, permitted home
occupations shall not include the following:
      (1)   Antique shop;
      (2)   Automobile, truck or motorcycle service, repair, salvage,
customization or restoration;
      (3)   Barber or beauty shop with two or more stations;
      (4)   Physician, dentist, optometrist, podiatrist, chiropractor or any
medical or dental clinic, office or hospital;
      (5)   Restaurant, bakery or catering service;
      (6)   Veterinarian or any veterinary clinic, office or hospital;
      (7)   Welding shop;
      (8)   Bed and breakfast, tourist home or boarding home; or
      (9)   Other activities having similar characteristics.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.039 MOBILE HOME PARKS AND MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES.
   (A)   Intent. This section details the process by which mobile home parks
and manufactured home communities (MHP/MHC) are approved and the regulations
which apply to them. MHP/MHCs are residential facilities and involve the
creation of individual-use sites or lots without the need for subdividing or
platting the land. For the purposes of this subchapter, MHP/MHCs shall be
defined as any tract of land upon which four or more units are located.
   (B)   Zoning and design considerations.
      (1)   For the purposes of these regulations, MHP/MHCs shall be
constructed only on land classified as R4 residential district and shall be
subject to all lot size, height, setback and other requirements as established
by this chapter for such district.
      (2)   To ensure adequate design and circulation, and to ensure that
state-mandated, health- related standards are met per I.C. 16-41-27-1 through
I.C. 16-41-27-34, plans detailing the proposed MHP/MHC shall be submitted for
approval by the Advisory Plan Commission at a public hearing before the
required permits can be issued for the work.
      (3)   MHP/MHCs shall be considered a major subdivision and shall be
subject to the submittal and approval procedures as outlined in this chapter
and the town’s subdivision control ordinance.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
USE REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 156.050 HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, no structure may be
erected or changed so as to make its height greater than 35 feet in R1, R2, R3,
R4, B1, B2 or A districts.
   (B)   (1)   Structures shall not exceed 50 feet in height in C1 districts or
150 feet in height for industrial (I) districts.
      (2)   Such heights do not extend to signs permitted for these uses.
   (C)   An agricultural structure other than a residence may be erected or
changed to any height necessary for its operation.
   (D)   Spires, church steeples, cooling towers, water storage towers,
electrical transmission towers or other similar structures may be erected to
any height which is not otherwise prohibited elsewhere in this ordinance.
   (E)   Accessory uses such as fences, walls or hedges shall be limited to
seven feet in height and shall be subject to all setbacks as provided in §
156.054 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.051 MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE, RESIDENTIAL USES.
   Residential buildings on any lot may not exceed in coverage the following
percentages of the total lot area.
 
District               R1  R2  R3  R4  B1* B2  A
Percentage of coverage 25% 30% 40% 40% 60% 30% 25%
NOTES TO TABLE:
* There is no maximum lot coverage if the entire first story contains
nonresidential uses.
 
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.052 MINIMUM LOT SIZE, RESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, a lot on which a dwelling is
erected may not be smaller in area, in square feet per dwelling unit, than as
prescribed as follows.
 
Lot Size in Square Feet
Dwelling Type R1     R2     R3    R4    B1    B2    A
Multi-family  N/A    N/A    2,400 2,000 N/A   N/A   N/A
Single-family 14,000 10,000 7,200 6,000 6,000 6,000 14,000
Two-family    N/A    N/A    3,600 3,000 N/A   N/A   N/A
 
   (B)   All residential lots shall front a public street and, except as
provided in division (C) below, shall have a minimum width along such street as
prescribed as follows.
 
Lot Width in Feet
Dwelling Type R1  R2  R3 R4 B1    B2  A
Multi-family  N/A N/A 70 70 N/A   N/A N/A
Single-family 100 75  60 60 6,000 60  100
Two-family    N/A N/A 60 60 N/A   N/A N/A
 
   (C)   A single-family dwelling may be located on any lot in any district in
which single-family dwellings are permitted if the lot was in separate
ownership or included in a recorded subdivision at the time of passage of this
chapter even if said lot does not meet the minimum areas or widths specified
for the district by this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   The minimum lot areas specified in divisions (A), (B) and (C)
above are only for primary uses served by sanitary sewers.
      (2)   Lots not served by sanitary sewers shall be subject to minimum size
and area standards established or recommended by the county’s Sanitarian or the
state’s Department of Health as required for on-site septic systems. However,
in no case shall such lots be less than as prescribed in this section or in §
156.051 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.053 MINIMUM LOT SIZE, OTHER USES.
   No minimum lot sizes are prescribed for lots used for business, commercial
or industrial uses. It is the intent of this chapter that uses provide lot
areas necessary to conduct the business intended and allow for adequate off-
street parking and loading areas on the grounds adjacent to their buildings.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.054 STANDARD SETBACKS.
   (A)   Front yard requirements.
      (1)   In residential districts or B2 districts, the minimum building
setback or front yard depth for a lot abutting a street shall be 25 feet for
local streets, 30 feet for collector streets and 40 feet for arterial streets
as measured from the public right-of-way. Along a local residential street, the
front yard depth shall be set as the average of the front yards of the
adjoining properties. If any adjoining lots are undeveloped, then the front
yard depth shall be considered to be 25 feet. In any case, the depth of the
front yard shall not be greater than one-third of the lot depth or 40 feet. For
any corner lots, these front yard- setback standards shall also apply to the
side yard or side yards abutting a public street. Where a lot does not abut a
street, the minimum front yard depth shall be 25 feet as measured from a
designated lot line.
      (2)   In districts B1, C1 or I, the minimum front yard depth shall be
equal to the average of any adjoining developed lot or 15 feet, whichever is
greater. Corner lots in these districts shall have a side yard depth equal to
the adjoining lot or to 15 feet, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Rear yard requirements. Each lot shall have a rear yard of 15% of the
lot depth or 30 feet, whichever is less, between the rear building line of the
principal building and the rear lot line. The rear yard may include permitted
accessory-use structures as provided by this chapter, but in no case shall such
structures be less than three feet from the rear lot line. In the case of
swimming pools, the inside edge shall be no closer than four feet to any lot
line.
   (C)   [Reserved]
   (D)   Fences, hedges and walls.
      (1)   Fences, hedges and walls not greater than seven feet in height are
permitted at least three feet from all rear and side property lines on interior
lots and on or to the rear of all front yard setback lines. It is the owner’s
responsibility to verify the location of the property line.
      (2)   A front yard may include a fence or hedge not over three and one-
half feet in height, except that front yards on a corner lot may have a fence
or hedge not over three feet in height as measured from the top of the curb.
      (3)   A fence not exceeding four feet in height may be erected on the
side lot lines forward of the front corner of the principal building.
      (4)   No fence shall be constructed in a manner which would block the
view of vehicular traffic or restrict the snow plowing of streets. All fences
shall be properly maintained with respect to appearance and safety
      (5)   Barbed wire fences or electrified fences are not permitted in
platted areas.
      (6)   Fences or structures over seven feet in height so as to enclose
tennis courts or other game areas located within the rear half of the lot shall
be composed of a wire mesh capable of admitting at least 90% of light as
measured on a reputable light meter. Such fences shall be permitted in the
required side yard or rear yard subject to the Plan Commission’s review and
approval.
      (7)   Any permanent swimming pool, whether aboveground or in-ground,
which is at least 18 inches in depth and used for recreational purposes shall
be entirely enclosed by a building or by fences or walls which are at least six
feet in height.
         (a)   Said fence or wall shall be equipped with self-latching gates or
doors and a latching device which is located not less than four feet above the
ground.
         (b)   All fencing must be in place and approved by the Plan Commission
before water is run into the pool.
      (8)   For fences which do not meet the requirements of this section,
refer to the variance procedure in §
156.133 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002; Ord. 2005-1, passed 2-1-2005; Ord. 2005-5,
passed 11-1-2005)
§ 156.055 HEIGHT, YARD AND AREA EXCEPTIONS.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.056 RESTRICTIONS ALONG SEAMS.
   (A)   The following buildings and structures are the only ones which may be
erected within a floodway fringe: recreational shelters, parking areas,
detached and unenclosed carports, water wells, public or private streets,
bridges and transmission mains for water, sewer, gas, electric and other
similar utilities.
   (B)   The buildings and structures listed in division (A) above may be
erected within a regulatory floodway only if a permit to construct in a
floodway has been received from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.057 WATER POLLUTION CONTROL.
   No authorization or use under this chapter includes the authority to
discharge liquid or solid wastes into public waters except as permitted under
the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit program, as
allowed by the Environmental Protection Agency and as administered by the
state’s Department of Environmental Management.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.070 RESERVED.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.071 RESERVED.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.072 REQUIRED PARKING SPACES.
   Parking spaces shall be provided as follows.
Parking Requirements by Use
Use Required Parking Spaces
Parking Requirements by Use
Use                                     Required Parking Spaces
Automobile, RV and camper sales         1 per 400 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Banks, business offices, professional
offices and similar business uses, and  1 per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area
post offices and similar service uses
Boarding or lodging house               1 per occupant plus 2 for the resident
                                        owner
Bowling alley                           4 per lane
Cemetery or crematory                   1 per 2 employees plus 1 per 4 seats in
                                        chapel, if provided
Church or temple                        1 per 4 seats in main auditorium
Clinic                                  1 per employee plus 3 per doctor for
                                        patients
Country club or golf course             1 per 2 employees plus 3 per golf hole
Department store, antique shop, apparel
shop, flower shop, drugstore, hardware
store, barber shop, beauty shop, health
spa or fitness center, bakery,
restaurant, delicatessen, liquor store, 1 per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area
meat market, grocery (including
convenience stores), dry-cleaning and
laundry establishment, billiard room,
night club and furniture sales
Hospital                                1 per 3 beds
Hotel or motel                          1 per 3 employees plus 1 per sleeping
                                        room
Industrial uses generally               1 per employee on largest shift
Junk yard or recycling center           1 per employee
Kindergarten or childcare center        1 per 2 employees plus 1 per 5 children
Mortuary                                1 per 3 seats in main auditorium
Motor vehicle repair                    1 per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Nursing home                            1 per 7 persons plus 1 per employee on
                                        largest shift
Private recreational development        1 per 2 customers or members
Public library or museum                2 per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Residential use, including apartments   2 per dwelling unit
                                        1 per staff member plus 1 per 5,000 sq.
School                                  ft., plus 1 per 4 students enrolled if
                                        a high school
Shopping center                         4 per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross leasable
                                        area
Swimming pools                          1 per 100 sq. ft. of pool area
Theater, indoor                         1 per 2 seats
Tourist home or bed and breakfast       1 per employee plus 1 per guest bedroom
Trade or business school                1 per 3 students and staff
Truck terminal                          1 per 2 employees plus 4 for customers
Veterinary hospital or clinic or        1 per 3 animal spaces (cages or pens)
boarding kennel
 
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.073 GENERAL PARKING SPACE REGULATIONS.
   Parking spaces may not be located in the required front yard except in
business and industrial districts. Two or more buildings or uses may
collectively provide the required off-street parking, in which case the
required number of parking spaces shall be not less than the sum of the
requirements for the several individual uses computed separately. This
provision shall apply to a building having space occupied by two or more uses.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.074 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.075 PUBLIC PARKING AREAS.
   After the effective date of this chapter, every parcel of land which is
changed to a public parking area, automobile or trailer sales area or public
garage shall be developed as follows.
   (A)   Such area, where subject to moving traffic, shall be paved with an
all-weather, dust-proof surface and shall have appropriate bumper guards or
curbs where needed.
   (B)   (1)   Where such area adjoins a lot in a residential zone, a solid
wall, compact evergreen screen or uniformly-painted solid board fence having a
height of not less than five feet shall be erected and maintained between such
area and the property in the residential zone.
      (2)   Such enclosures shall be at least five feet from the side of a lot
in a residential zone, and all required front and side yards shall be properly
maintained as such.
   (C)   Any light used to illuminate said parking area shall be arranged,
insofar as practical, so as to reflect the light away from the adjoining
premises in a residential zone.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 2-1-2005)
SIGNS
§ 156.090 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to permit such signs as will not, by their
reason, size, location, construction or manner of display, endanger the public
safety of individuals, obstruct the vision necessary for traffic safety or
otherwise endanger the public health and morals, and to permit and regulate
signs in such a way so as to support and complement land-use objectives set
forth in other parts of this chapter. All new signs except for those exempted
in §
156.091 of this chapter will require an improvement location permit as
prescribed in §
156.145 of this chapter. All signs not expressly exempted or permitted by this
subchapter are prohibited.
(Ord. 2008-5, passed 11-4-2008)
§ 156.091 SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMITS.
   The following types of signs shall be exempted from the permit requirements
of §
156.145 of this chapter, though signs so exempted are subject to any and all
other sign regulations covered under this subchapter:
   (A)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only property
numbers, post box numbers and names of the occupants of the premises or the
name of the home service;
   (B)   Flags and insignia of any government, but such are not to exceed 30
square feet in area;
   (C)   Legal notices, identification information or directional signs erected
by, or by order of, governmental bodies;
   (D)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except for
letters, trademarks, logos, moving parts and flashing or moving lights;
   (E)   Signs directing and guiding traffic, parking, and business activities
on private property, but those bearing no advertising matter, including logos,
and not exceeding 20 square feet in area;
   (F)   One “for sale” or “for rent” sign not more than eight square feet in
area for each dwelling unit, garage or other quarters where appropriate. Such
sign shall be allowed only on the premises where the vacancy exists or will
exist. Multiple-unit apartment buildings of 3 units or more are allowed not
more than one such sign per building;
   (G)   One temporary sign for remodeling or construction and development
giving only the name and contact information of the contractors, engineer,
architects or property owners, as appropriate, and of not more than 12 square
feet in area. Such signs shall be allowed only at the work site and only during
the time when remodeling, construction or development is actively underway;
   (H)   One temporary sign may be placed for a period not to exceed 45 days
while waiting for the construction of a permanent sign covered by an
improvement location permit. Such sign can be placed only on the same property
where the permanent sign will be located and can be no larger than the size of
the permanent sign;
   (I)   For an event of public interest sponsored by a place of worship,
governmental agency, school, political organization, charitable organization or
incorporated non-profit organization, four temporary, portable or freestanding
signs shall be allowed, with each sign not over 50 square feet in area. Such
signs shall not be erected more than 30 days before the event in question and
shall be removed within five business days after such event;
   (J)   Political advertisement signs not more than 12 square feet in area may
be erected. Such signs may be erected only on private property with the
permission of the property owner;
   (K)   Temporary, portable or freestanding signs necessary to the function of
those people, businesses and organizations associated with the county fair may
be erected not more than 14 days prior to the opening of the fair and shall be
removed within five days after the fair; and
   (L)   Portable or freestanding signs not over 12 square feet in area may be
erected for a private event, party, rummage sale, garage sale, yard sale or the
like not more than seven days prior to such event and shall be removed within
five days after such event.
(Ord. 2008-5, passed 11-4-2008)
§ 156.092 ON-PREMISES SIGNS.
   (A)   In any district, the provisions of this division (A) shall be applied
to effect the safety of motorists and to facilitate traffic movement.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where it may
obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized traffic-control sign,
signal or device by reason of its position, wording, illumination, size, shape
or color.
      (2)   No exterior sign shall be permitted to display flashing,
intermittent, revolving, rotating or animated lighting or illumination nor any
illumination which simulates or displays motion.
   (B)   In all districts, the provisions of this division (B) shall apply.
      (1)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 50 feet of property
in any residential district unless the illumination of such sign does not
reflect or shine light onto such property.
      (2)   No part of any sign shall be erected to a height greater than that
specified for other structures in the district in which the sign in located;
rooftop or building-mounted sign structures shall not extend more than six feet
above the roof line.
      (3)   The net sign area, or size, of any sign other than an awning,
window or wall-painted sign shall include the entire space of the sign but
exclude the frame or other structural parts provided that the exclusions do not
exceed 20% of the net sign area. The net sign area, or size, of an awning,
window or wall-painted sign shall be measured by the smallest square,
rectangle, triangle, circle or combination thereof which will encompass the
entire span of the advertising and artistic content.
      (4)   Setbacks for all signs other than freestanding, portable or
temporary signs are equal to those setbacks listed for accessory structures
under §
156.054 of this chapter. The minimum setback for freestanding, portable or
temporary signs from street rights-of-way shall not be less than those given
below. Setbacks shall be measured from the nearest point of the sign to the
edge of the right-of-way.
 
Minimum Sign Setbacks
Area (or Size) of Sign per Face Minimum Setback
5 square feet or less           2 feet
5 to 14.9 square feet           10 feet
15 to 50 square feet            20 feet
 
      (5)   No sign shall be erected or maintained on or within any easement or
right-of-way, whether public or private, without special permission in writing
from that person or those persons entitled to give such permission.
      (6)   No sign shall project over a lot line except in the downtown area,
where the lot line is recognized as equal to the front of the building; no sign
shall project into a required yard by more than two feet.
      (7)   (a)   For each real estate subdivision which has been recorded in
accordance with the subdivision regulations, one sign of not more than 50
square feet in area advertising the sale of property in such subdivision shall
be permitted, but only when located in some portion of the subdivision being
advertised for sale. Such sign shall not encroach upon any required yard.
         (b)   Such sign may be illuminated, except as restricted elsewhere in
this chapter.
         (c)   Such sign shall be maintained only during such time as some
portion of the land advertised for sale remains unsold. Permits for such signs
shall be issued for a one-year period and may be renewed for additional one-
year period to allow time for reasonable display.
      (8)   For each major entrance to a real estate subdivision, one sign
containing the name of the subdivision shall be permitted. Such sign shall not
exceed 50 square feet in area and shall have a maximum height of six feet.
      (9)   Within 60 days after a business goes out of business, that business
shall remove all of its sign faces on the property, along with any off-premises
signs for that business.
      (10)   (a)   Nonconforming signs. All signs not in conformance with these
regulations on the date this chapter becomes effective shall be considered
nonconforming signs. Nonconforming signs may continue to exist as they are at
the time this chapter becomes effective provided that there is no change to the
sign’s structure, location, size, lighting or business names, excluding normal
maintenance, repairs or general advertising content.
         (b)   Changes to nonconforming signs. Any of the changes mentioned in
division (B)(10)(a) above will cause such sign to be considered a new sign, and
such new sign must comply with all existing regulations.
   (C)   In any residential district, the provisions of this division (C) shall
apply.
      (1)   Multi-family development may display identification signs
indicating nothing other than a name, the address of the premises and the name
of the management. Such sign shall not exceed nine square feet in area.
      (2)   Nonresidential uses shall be permitted one bulletin board or
identification sign indicating nothing other than the name and address of the
premises and the schedule of services or other information relevant to the
operation of the premises. Such sign shall not exceed eight square feet in
area.
   (D)   In any business district, except as otherwise provided, the provisions
of this division (D) shall apply.
      (1)   Signs shall be permitted as accessory uses for each nonresidential
business use according to the number and size of signs as set forth below:
 
Business-Use Signs and Net Sign Area
District Number of Signs Maximum Net Sign Area (Each Sign)
B2       2               30 sq. ft. in area
B1, C1   3               40 sq. ft. in area
 
      (2)   In cases where one individual building or property houses multiple
nonresidential business uses, the total net sign area of all signs allowed for
that building or property shall be no more than 60 square feet in B2 districts
or 120 square feet in B1 or C1 districts.
      (3)   Off-premises advertising signs may be permitted, but such signs
cannot be located in a residential district. The size and number of such off-
premises advertising signs are limited to, and must be included in, the total
size and number of all signs permitted under divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) above.
   (E)   In any industrial district, each business use or industrial use shall
be permitted identification signs on the lot only as incidental uses, and shall
not exceed two such signs or a total net sign area of 300 square feet.
   (F)   In any agricultural district, the provisions of this division (F)
shall apply.
      (1)   Agricultural uses shall be permitted one sign not to exceed 30
square feet in area.
      (2)   Industrial uses shall be permitted a maximum of two signs not to
exceed a combined area of 100 square feet.
      (3)   Business uses shall be permitted a maximum of two signs, with each
sign not to exceed 30 square feet in area.
      (4)   Other nonresidential uses shall be permitted one bulletin board or
identification sign indicating nothing other than the name and address of the
premises and the schedule of services or other information relevant to the
operation of the premises. Such sign shall not exceed 12 square feet in area.
(Ord. 2008-5, passed 11-4-2008)
§ 156.093 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS, BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Outdoor advertising signs shall be allowed in B1, C1 and I districts
only.
   (B)   Outdoor advertising signs shall be separated by 1,000 feet in all
directions, and pertaining to the interstates and limited access highways, no
outdoor advertising sign may be located adjacent to or within 500 feet of an
interchange, at-grade intersection or rest area; the 500 feet shall be measured
from the right-of-way line.
   (C)   No outdoor advertising sign shall be permitted if it is located within
300 feet of land that is in residential use or is zoned R1, R2, R3, R4, B2 or
A.
   (D)   No outdoor advertising sign structure shall contain more than two
facings, and no facing shall display more than two signs.
   (E)   The maximum area for any one facing shall be 300 square feet,
exclusive of any border, trim, ornamental base, apron, supports, embellishments
and other structural members if the exclusions do not exceed 20% of the net
sign area.
(Ord. 2008-5, passed 11-4-2008)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 156.105 INTENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide greater design
flexibility in the development of land when consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan and the intent of this chapter. The use of Planned Development zoning
classifications shall be encouraged when the use of such regulations promotes a
harmonious variety of uses which are compatible with the surrounding areas or
fosters the creation of an attractive, efficient and stable environment for
living, shopping or working.
   (B)   Planned Development regulations are intended to encourage innovations
in land development techniques so that the growing demands of the community may
be met with greater flexibility and variety in type, design and layout.
   (C)   (1)   Planned Developments are not identified on the zoning map in
advance, but rather are the result of a public hearing to rezone a specific
parcel or specific parcels to a new PD zone.
      (2)   The provisions of §§
156.050 through
156.055 and
156.070 through
156.075 of this chapter shall not be applicable to a PD zone or district since
the negotiated development plan determines the nature of the PD district.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.106 ORGANIZATION OF PROPOSALS.
   (A)   A request to rezone from any zoning classification to a PD zone may be
initiated by all owners of the property or by any group of owners united in
interest acting jointly under an agreement to carry out the proposal in
separate ownership.
   (B)   The negotiated agreement is the substance of a PD zone.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.107 CLASSIFICATIONS OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   To identify the nature of planned unit developments on zoning maps, they
shall be classified as one of the following zones:
   (A)   PDRS, in which all buildings and land are developed for residential
use and those activities customarily accessory to residential use;
   (B)   PDNR, in which no building or land is developed for residential use
but rather for commercial, industrial, recreational and other nonresidential
use; or
   (C)   PDMX, in which buildings and land are developed as a mix of both
residential and nonresidential uses.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.108 PRE-SUBMISSION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Before filing a request for a petition to rezone to PDRS, PDNR or
PDMX, the petitioner shall arrange a meeting with the Administrator.
   (B)   The petitioner shall bring a scaled site plan of the proposed planned
unit of development to the meeting. The site plan should show the location of
proposed uses and major buildings, the layout and classification of roads, all
entrances and exists and any environmentally sensitive areas. Additionally, the
petitioner shall bring a chart detailing the phasing and a time frame for
development.
   (C)   Discussion at the meeting shall include:
      (1)   The petitioner’s intentions and objectives regarding land use,
street improvements and utilities;
      (2)   The petitioner’s intentions for assuring compatibility between the
uses proposed for the perimeter of the PUD and surrounding land uses and zoning
classifications;
      (3)   The general availability of utilities to the site;
      (4)   The area’s current zoning pattern; and
      (5)   The classification of the proposed rezoning to a PD category.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.109 FILING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   After the pre-submission meeting, the petitioner may file a rezoning
request to one of the PD classification categories.
   (B)   This submission shall contain the following:
      (1)   A signed and notarized petition to rezone containing a metes and
bounds legal description and the PD classification category sought, signed by
the owner or owners of all property involved or with a notarized affidavit of
consent of all owners attached;
      (2)   A list of names, addresses and tax assessment parcel numbers of all
owners of property located adjacent to and directly across the street, alley or
railroad right-of-way from the subject property;
      (3)   Two notices of public hearing, each with a metes and bounds or
other legal description and the common address or location of the subject
property;
      (4)   Two release letters authorizing the staff to submit notices of
public hearings to the designated newspapers;
      (5)   A typed original and eight copies of the proposed ordinance to
rezone the property;
      (6)   Three sets of drawings labeled draft plan, to include a recorded
boundary survey satisfying the requirements of 865 I.A.C. Art. 1, Rule 12;
      (7)   If dividing land, three copies of the preliminary plat prepared by
a registered land surveyor; detailed instructions on the information to be
provided on said preliminary plat can be obtained from the Administrator;
      (8)   Three copies of any proposed covenants and horizontal property
ownership and owner’s association documents written in plain language with a
table of contents; and
      (9)   Signatures from the representatives of all checkpoint agencies, or
post office receipts of certified mailing indicating receipt of one set of
items listed in divisions (B)(7) through (B)(9) above. The checkpoint agencies
are:
         (a)   The Town Council;
         (b)   The Water and Wastewater Utility Superintendents;
         (c)   The town’s Police Department;
         (d)   The town’s Volunteer Fire Department;
         (e)   The Eastern School Corporation; and
         (f)   The county’s Health Department.
   (C)   If the petitioner fails to meet the filing requirements of division
(B) above within six months of the pre-submission meeting, then the petitioner
shall reschedule a new pre-submission meeting in order to continue the project.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.110 REVIEW MEETING.
   (A)   The purpose of the review meeting is to give the Administrator and
checkpoint agency representatives an opportunity to recommend revisions to the
draft plan submission and to discuss these recommendations with the petitioner
and the petitioner’s representatives.
   (B)   The Administrator shall determine if the petitioner’s submission is
complete. Within 30 days of the finding of a complete submission, the review
meeting shall be held. Written notice shall be sent to the petitioner, the
petitioner’s representatives, the checkpoint agencies and the Advisory Plan
Commission stating the time and place of the review meeting.
   (C)   If the submission is incomplete, the petitioner shall be provided with
written notice of the deficiencies. The review meeting shall not be scheduled
until the deficiencies are addressed by the petitioner.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.111 PRELIMINARY PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Following the required review meeting, the petitioner shall submit a
preliminary plan not later than three weeks before the proposed public hearing
of the rezoning petition. A complete preliminary plan submission shall contain
the following:
      (1)   Eight sets of drawings labeled preliminary plan. These drawings
must contain all of the elements of the draft plan plus the changes resulting
from the review meeting;
      (2)   If dividing land, eight copies of the preliminary plat shall be
included within the preliminary plan. The plat shall be prepared by a
registered land surveyor; and
      (3)   Eight copies of any covenants and horizontal property ownership and
owner’s association documents written in plain language and with a table of
contents.
   (B)   If the petitioner fails to meet the preliminary plan submission
requirement within six months of the review meeting, then his or her rezoning
petition shall be void. If the petitioner wishes to continue the project, a new
pre-submission meeting is required.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.112 PRELIMINARY PLAN HEARING AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The rezoning petition and preliminary plan shall be heard by the
Advisory Plan Commission as a petition for zoning ordinance amendment, which
may recommend approval, amendment or disapproval of the preliminary plan upon
hearing the request.
   (B)   The Commission may impose reasonable conditions with its
recommendation. However, if the Commission requires changes in design regarding
the proposed site, utilities or landscape plans, then the Commission shall vote
to recommend amendment. In this case, the petitioner may resubmit a second
preliminary plan for rehearing by the Commission at a later date.
   (C)   If the Commission recommends approval or disapproval, the eight sets
of the preliminary plan shall be stamped with that recommendation and signed by
the President and Secretary of the Commission. Distribution of the plan sets
shall be as follows: one set shall be retained in the office the Commission,
two sets shall be returned to the petitioner, four sets shall be distributed to
the affected gas, electric, telephone and cable television utilities and one
set shall be certified to the legislative body for adoption as a planned unit
development zone.
   (D)   The legislative body may adopt or defeat the certified preliminary
planned unit development but shall not amend the plan. If adopted by the
legislative body, then the petitioner may prepare final detailed plans.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.113 SUBMITTAL OF FINAL PLANS.
   Upon approval by the Town Council of the PD zone, the petitioner may proceed
with the approval of any platting or final development plans in accordance with
the terms and provisions of
Chapter 155 of this code.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.114 AMENDMENT OF THE APPROVED FINAL DETAILED PLANS.
   (A)   The petitioner may wish to make changes to the approved final detailed
plans after recordation. The Administrator shall make a determination if the
changes constitute a minor modification or a major modification. An approved
written determination of minor modification by the Administrator shall be
attached to the amended final plans before recording. A major modification will
require rezoning.
   (B)   A minor modification cannot include:
      (1)   Any increase in residential density;
      (2)   Any decrease in residential density of 10% or more;
      (3)   Any change in building dimension or location other than within the
defined building envelope;
      (4)   Any change in lot lines;
      (5)   Any change in landscaping other than a substitution of species or a
redesign with the same materials;
      (6)   Any alteration in the size or location of signage;
      (7)   Any change in the alignment or intersection of streets; or
      (8)   Any change in restrictive covenants or in horizontal property
ownership and owner’s association documents regarding the items in divisions
(B)(1) through (B)(7) above.
   (C)   The petitioner shall provide the Administrator an as-built survey
locating building and common lot lines after the foundations are in place for
all condominium or attached zero lot line projects. The revised plans need to
be submitted to and approved by the Administrator and recorded as amended final
detailed plans.
   (D)   Changes to restrictive covenants and any horizontal property ownership
and owner’s association documents can only be initiated by a majority of
property owners within the planned unit development. Multiple owners of a
single unit shall be considered one owner. The developer shall be considered a
single owner until all property is sold. The proposed changes shall be reviewed
by the Administrator and the determination made as to whether the changes
amount to a minor or major modification.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.115 LAPSED AND ABANDONED PLAN DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   An intended condominium conversion has lapsed if two years have passed
since the date on which rezoning to PDRS was granted and no final detailed
plans have been approved and recorded. The Advisory Plan Commission shall
initiate a petition to rezone the property to its former classification
following such a lapse.
   (B)   A planned unit development has been abandoned if two years have passed
since the date on which rezoning to PDRS, PDNR or PDMX was granted and no final
detailed plans have been approved and recorded for the project. The
Administrator shall not issue an improvement location permit for an abandoned
planned unit development.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
SPECIAL USES AND APPEALS
§ 156.130 ADVISORY BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS, MEMBERSHIP AND JURISDICTION.
   (A) Generally. There is hereby established the Advisory Board of Zoning
Appeals, to be known as the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals of the Town of
Greentown, Indiana. The Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals is established under
the Advisory Plan Law, being I.C. 36-7-4-901, as amended.
   (B)   Membership. The Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of a
five-member board appointed as follows:
      (1)   Three citizen members, appointed by the executive of the town, of
whom one must be a member of the Advisory Plan Commission and two must not be
members of the Advisory Plan Commission;
      (2)   One citizen member, appointed by the fiscal body of the town, who
is not a member of the Plan Commission; and
      (3)   One citizen member, appointed by the Advisory Plan Commission, who
must be a county agricultural agent or a citizen member of the Advisory Plan
Commission but who is not the same member from the Plan Commission appointed by
the executive in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Terms of office. Each member except for those appointed from the
Advisory Plan Commission shall be appointed for a term of four years, with the
positions staggered so that such terms shall not be concurrent. The members
appointed from the Advisory Plan Commission shall be appointed for a term of
one year. Each term shall expire on the first Monday of the year of
termination.
   (D)   Territorial jurisdiction. The Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals shall
have jurisdiction over all of the land subject to the zoning ordinance.
   (E)   Subject matter jurisdiction. The Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals
shall have exclusive jurisdiction for special uses and variances under the
statute and this chapter, except that it shall have no jurisdiction to grant a
variance from a use district or classification, from appeals as provided by
statute, including requirements for the procurement of improvement location
permits or any ordinance adopted under I.C. 36-7-4, or from any prior zoning
statute and any other appeals authorized by statute.
   (F)   Staff. The staff of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist
of the Administrator as defined in this chapter and such other persons employed
by the town as the Administrator may direct from time to time to assist the
Administrator or the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.131 ADVISORY BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS, RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Rules and bylaws. The Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals shall have sole
authority to adopt any and all rules under I.C. 36-7-4-916 and any and all
bylaws concerning organization, selection of officers, forms for applications,
filing requirements, other than as to place of filing as herein provided for,
procedures and notices for meetings and conduct of meetings. Upon adoption of
such rules and bylaws, they shall be applicable to the Advisory Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (B)   Facilities and funding. The town shall provide suitable facilities for
the holding of Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals hearings and the storage of its
recorded documents and accounts, and in its annual budget shall provide
sufficient funds for the functioning of said Board and its staff.
   (C)   Filing applications. All applications for variances, special uses and
requests for appeal shall be filed by the applicant with the staff of the
Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (D)   Hearings. All hearings required for variances, special uses and
appeals shall be by the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals. As per division (A)
above, the procedures for public notice setting forth the time and place for
all hearings by the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals shall be established by
the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.132 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   There shall be no classes of case or application therefor for, nor any
particular situation in which this chapter authorizes, either special
exceptions, contingent uses or conditional uses.
   (B)   The Advisory Board may provide a special use in a district if, after a
hearing under §
156.131(D) of this chapter, it makes findings of fact in writing:
      (1)   That §
156.035 of this chapter authorizes that special use in that district;
      (2)   That the requirements and development standards for the requested
special use as prescribed by this chapter will be met; and
      (3)   That granting the special use will not undermine the general
purposes served by this chapter and will not, because of traffic generation,
placement of outdoor lighting, noise production or hours of operation,
materially and permanently injure other property or uses in the same zoning
district and vicinity.
   (C)   The Advisory Board may impose such reasonable conditions upon its
approval as it deems necessary to find that division (B)(3) above will be
served.
   (D)   The Advisory Board may permit or require the owner of the parcel of
property to make a written commitment concerning the use or development of the
parcel.
   (E)   The approval of a special use under division (B) above is unnecessary
for a use authorized by §
156.035 of this chapter if that use existed on the date that this chapter or
pertinent amendments to it were passed. However, this section shall not
authorize the expansion of such a use if it involves the enlargement of a
building, structure or land area.
   (F)   A special use approved by the Advisory Board may not be expanded,
extended or enlarged unless reapproved by the Advisory Board under the
procedures set forth in this subchapter for approving a special use. A special
use shall not be transferable upon change of ownership.
   (G)   A special use approved under division (B) or authorized by division
(E) above ceases to be authorized and is void if that use is not established
within a 12-month period of the date the special use was approved or if that
special use is discontinued at that site for a 12-month period, during which
time it is not succeeded by the same specifically-approved special use.
   (H)   A special use may be terminated by the Advisory Board of Zoning
Appeals upon the filing of an application therefor by an interested person or
the Administrator and upon a finding at a public hearing, with notice to the
property owner that the terms of this chapter, the conditions of approval or
the commitments have not been compiled with.
   (I)   The Administrator shall make the determination whether an applicant’s
proposed use requires special use approval. Such a determination may involve
the expansion, extension or enlargement of a previously-approved use under
division (F) above. The Administrator shall file a written report with the Plan
Commission stating the facts concerning the proposed use. The Plan Commission
shall determine how the granting of the special use would affect the purposes
served by this chapter in meeting the goals of the Comprehensive Plan. Within
30 days of the date on which it received the application, the Commission shall
report its findings to the Advisory Board. The Advisory Board shall take the
appropriate action based on the criteria in division (B) above. If the Advisory
Board grants the special use, then it shall direct the applicant to apply for
an improvement location permit under §§
156.145 through
156.154 of this chapter. If such application complies with this chapter and
with all other applicable codes and ordinances, then the Administrator shall
issue the improvement location permit for the approved special use.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.133 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Advisory Board may grant a variance from the development standards
of this chapter, such as height, bulk or area, if, after a public hearing, it
makes a finding of fact in writing that:
      (1)   The Advisory Plan Commission has determined that the variance
application is not for a use variance, that is, a variance from a use district
or classification per §
156.130(E) of this chapter;
      (2)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
      (3)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner; and
      (4)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter is being
applied to some condition peculiar to the property involved that is not common
to other properties in the same zoning district and will result in an unusual
and unnecessary hardship. This situation shall not be solely self-imposed, nor
shall it be based on a perceived reduction of or restriction on economic gain.
   (B)   The Advisory Board may permit or require the owner of a parcel of
property to make written commitment concerning the use or development of that
parcel or may impose conditions upon that grant of variance.
   (C)   A variance granted by the Advisory Board shall run with the land until
such time as the use of the variance ends or the property conforms with the
chapter as written.
   (D)   Where an owner has failed to comply with any condition or commitment
permitted or required by the grant of variance, the Advisory Board may
authorize such action as it may deem appropriate to obtain compliance by the
owner with the condition or commitment of the grant, or with the terms of this
chapter, in the same manner as if the variance had not been granted.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.134 APPEALS.
   (A)   A decision of the Administrator enforcing this chapter may be appealed
to the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals by any person who is adversely affected
by the decision.
   (B)   On an appeal under division (A) above, the Advisory Board of Zoning
Appeals may make any decision that the Administrator might have made.
   (C)   All appeals from a decision of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals
shall be made pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1001 through I.C. 36-7-4-1020. The person
aggrieved by a decision of such Board of Zoning Appeals shall present the
petition provided for in I.C. 36-7-4-1003 to the court within 30 days after the
entry of the decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS
§ 156.145 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   An improvement location permit issued and authorized by the
Administrator or his or her designee shall be required for the following types
of projects and changes:
      (1)   Construction of a new primary-use building, accessory building or
other structure;
      (2)   Demolition of a primary-use building, accessory building, sign or
other structure;
      (3)   Any structural alteration involved in the expansion, enlargement,
conversion or repair of an existing primary-use building, accessory building or
other structure;
      (4)   Placement, construction, erection or modification of any type of
sign, except for those exempt signs listed in §§
156.090 through
156.093 of this chapter;
      (5)   Moving an existing primary-use building, accessory building, sign
or structure from one location to another either on the same lot or to another;
      (6)   Construction of decks and aboveground or in-ground swimming pools;
      (7)   Construction of fences;
      (8)   Changing the use or condition of the land, except for an
agricultural use;
      (9)   Changing the use of the land under special uses as per §
156.132 of this chapter; and
      (10)   Changing the floodplain district under §
156.022 of this chapter.
   (B)   However, an improvement location permit is not required for:
      (1)   Interior or exterior maintenance which does not require structural
alterations;
      (2)   Reroofing which does not require structural alterations;
      (3)   Landscaping, except as required by this or any other ordinance; and
      (4)   A portable or mobile storage shed up to 120 square feet in area.
   (C)   The filing fee for improvement location permits shall be as follows:
Fee Schedule
Permit Type Fee
Fee Schedule
Permit Type                                      Fee
Accessory uses:
All storage buildings or garages above 144 sq.   $15
ft. on foundations
All storage buildings or garages above 144 sq.   $15
ft. on runners
Fences                                           $15
Porches or decks                                 $15
Signs, permanent or portable (moving a sign or   $15
altering a sign)
Storage buildings less than 144 sq. ft. on       $0
runners
Swimming pools; above- or in-ground              $15
Additions (attachment to dwelling):
400 sq. ft. or less                              $15
400 sq. ft. or more                              $20
All demolitions (per § 156.145):
Permit                                           $15
Commercial / Industrial:
Additions                                        $50
New buildings                                    $100
Moving structures:
All structures (except for buildings 144 sq. ft. $15
or less)
Multi-family:
Building permit                                  $35 base fee, plus $5 per unit
New homes:
Building permit                                  $35
 
   (D)   All property needing a permit where there may be a question on the
property line must have a certified stake survey or an agreement between all
adjoining property owners, which must be recorded with the county’s Recorder
before the permit will be issued. If disputes occur between property owners,
then they will be handled by legal arbitration and not by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002; Ord. 2002-12, passed 11-5-2002; Ord. 2005-5,
passed 11-1-2005)
§ 156.146 CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   [Reserved]
   (A)   No land or structure with respect to which a permit has been issued
under §
156.145 of this chapter may be used for the purpose contemplated by the permit
unless the Administrator, after the change is completed, issues a certificate
of compliance stating that the change complies with this chapter and with the
permit.
   (B)   Within ten days after the completion of the change authorized by the
improvement location permit, the Administrator or his or her designee shall
inspect the premises. If the change conforms to this chapter and the
improvement location permit and a certification by a registered professional
engineer of the state, if required by §
156.148 of this chapter, has been obtained, then the Administrator or his or
her designee shall issue a certificate of compliance.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.147 SITE PLAN AND CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS.
   (A)   In addition to all other required applications, information and
permits from other governmental agencies, a person who applies for an
improvement location permit under §
156.145 of this chapter must furnish the Administrator with plans drawn to
scale showing details of the materials and structures and the information in
divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) below, and plans so furnished shall be kept by
the Administrator as permanent records. The information to be furnished is as
follows:
      (1)   The location and legal description of the land concerned, with the
direction north shown by an arrow;
      (2)   The location and horizontal and vertical dimensions of all
buildings and structures already on the land and of the proposed structures to
be erected, with each part appropriately labeled “existing” or “proposed”,
including parking, signage, landscaping and screenings;
      (3)   The distance of all proposed structures from all front, rear and
side lot lines, measured from the point where the structure or its foundation
is [reserved];
      (4)   For all improvements, the site plan and construction drawings shall
provide all information as required by §
155.133 of this code regarding construction plans. Furthermore, all
construction drawings for such improvements shall reflect all applicable
requirements of §§
155.040 through
155.050,
155.065 through
155.074,
155.085 through
155.100 and
155.115 through
155.117 of this code regarding general requirements and minimum standards for
improvements; and
      (5)   The size of all entrances to and exits from the land, including all
adjacent streets and highways.
   (B)   As a condition of issuing a permit, the Administrator may require
changes to the landscape plan upon recommendation of the Design Review
Committee, the relocation of any structures or buildings or any entrance or
exit, the inclusion of entrances or exists not shown on the plan or the
deletion of any entrance or exit if the requirement is necessary in the
interest of the public welfare or for an appropriate balancing of the interests
of persons in the district concerned and in the vicinity.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002; Ord. 2005-1, passed 2-1-2005)
§ 156.148 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS, INDUSTRIAL USES.
   If an application for an improvement location permit relates to an
industrial use, then it must be accompanied by a certification by a registered
professional engineer of the state stating that the use will meet the
performance standards of the district concerned.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.149 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   This section does not apply to mobile homes placed within approved
mobile home parks or manufactured home communities as provided in §
156.039 of this chapter.
   (B)   Mobile homes shall be permitted as temporary uses within the
jurisdiction of the municipality. Their placement as a temporary use is subject
to the primary-use table and governed by this section.
   (C)   In the event that a single-family home has been damaged by any means
and an improvement location permit has been issued for its replacement or
reconstruction, the property owner may apply for an improvement location permit
for a mobile home to be placed on the same property for a period not to exceed
one year. No extensions of time shall be permitted by the Administrator.
   (D)   Application procedures and requirements shall be the same as for any
other improvement location permit.
   (E)   Placement of the mobile home shall be subject to all use requirements
and restrictions applicable to a single-family home.
   (F)   In addition to all other requirements, the property owner shall post a
$1,000 cash bond in favor of the town, to be held by the Town Clerk. Said cash
bond shall be returned without interest upon the removal of the mobile home and
the issuance of a certificate of compliance for the constructed or
reconstructed single-family home. Said cash bond may be drawn on by the Town
Council at the Council’s discretion upon the advice of the Administrator that
the property owner has failed to removed the mobile home either at the end of
one year or within one week of the issuance of the certificate of compliance
for the constructed or reconstructed single-family home, whichever occurs
first. Said cash bond may be used to defray expenses incurred by the town for
the removal of the mobile home or the legal costs directly associated with the
enforcement of this section.
   (G)   This section is not intended, nor should it be construed, to limit the
damages, whether legal or equitable, that the town may seek in the enforcement
of this chapter, nor should this section be construed as authorizing any
violation of this chapter, the subdivision ordinance or the designated uses of
respective parcels of real estate.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.150 RECORDS.
   A record of each improvement location permit and each certificate of
occupancy shall be kept by the Administrator. Upon request, a copy shall be
furnished to any person having a proprietary or possessory interest in the
premises concerned.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.151 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   The Administrator shall accept only a complete application and shall issue
the improvement location permit, or deny the application with a statement of
reasons for the denial, within a period of eight working days following its
submittal, excepting the longer period of time required for industrial uses as
provided in §
156.148 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.152 APPEALS.
   A decision of the Administrator under §
156.151 of this chapter may be appealed to the Advisory Board of Zoning
Appeals.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.153 EXPIRATION.
   An improvement location permit shall be valid for a period of one year, at
which time it shall expire unless specifically extended by the Administrator or
his or her designee upon good cause being shown.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.154 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS AND
CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   A certificate of compliance shall not be issued more than one year
from the date of issuance of an improvement location permit unless said permit
has been specifically extended by the Administrator or his or her designee.
   (B)   Any improvement location permit or certificate of compliance issued in
conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter is null and void.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, whether owner or possessor, who violates or permits or allows a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or who fails to comply
therewith or with any requirements thereunder, or who builds, reconstructs or
structurally alters any building in violation of any detailed statement or plan
submitted and upon which an approval or grant has been given under this
chapter, shall, upon complaint filed in any court of the county and upon
judgment finding such violation, be fined not less than $10 and not more than
$300, and each day that such violation or noncompliance is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 7-2-2002)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                      Code Section
1-1-1-5                         10.04
1-1-1-7                         10.12
1-1-1-8                         10.06
1-1-4-5                         10.05
1-1-5-1                         10.11
1-1-6-1                         10.08
3-10-7-2.9(c)(1)                32.01
4-21.5-5                        52.11;
                                52.41
5-3-1                           155.028;
                                155.029
5-22 et seq.                    33.01,
                                33.40
7.1.5-12-3                      30.01
7.1.-5-12-4                     30.99
7.1-5-12-7                      30.02
8-1.5-3-3                       53.02
8-1.5-3-9                       50.02
8-1.5-5-1 through 8-1.5-5-32    53.01
8-1.5-5-3.5                     53.15
                                53.01;
8-1.5-5-4                       53.02;
                                53.15
8-1.5-5-4(d)                    53.02
8-1.5-5-5                       53.01;
                                53.03
8-1.5-5-6                       53.02
8-1.5-5-8                       53.19
8-1.5-5-9                       53.19
8-1.5-5-11                      53.19
9-13-2-150(a)                   Ch. 72, Schedule V
9-13-2-164(a)                   Ch. 72, Schedule V
9-13-2-180                      Ch. 72, Schedule V
9-13-2-188(a)                   Ch. 72, Schedule V
9-21-9-3                        71.09
9-21-9-4                        71.09
14-16-1 et seq.                 Ch. 72, Schedule IV
14-28-1                         152.35
14-28-1-26                      152.35
16-41-27-1 through 16-41-27-34  156.039
22-9-1-4 et seq.                90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.                90.01
22-9.5-2-2                      90.02
22-9.5-2-3                      90.02
22-9.5-2-4                      90.02
22-9.5-2-8                      90.02
22-9.5-2-9                      90.02
22-9.5-2-10                     90.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)                  90.02
22-9.5-2-11                     90.02
22-9.5-2-13                     90.02
22-9.5-3                        90.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.                90.09
22-9.5-4-8                      90.10
22-9.5-5                        90.02
22-9.5-5-1                      90.03
22-9.5-6                        90.02;
                                90.10
22-9-6-1                        90.02
32-25 et seq.                   156.009;
                                156.023
32-30-6-6                       92.01
32-35 et seq.                   155.011
36-1-3-4                        155.003
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                 10.99
36-1-5-4                        31.02
36-1-6-3                        92.16
36-1-20.2                       31.02
36-1-21                         31.02
36-1-27-1                       153.01
36-1-27-4                       153.01
36-4-6-11                       31.02
36-5-2-9.4                      31.02
36-5-6-6                        50.01
36-5-6-7                        50.01
36-7-1-2                        155.011;
                                156.009
36-7-3                          155.008
36-7-4                          155.011;
                                156.130
36-7-4 et seq.                  152.01
36-7-4-700                      155.003;
                                155.011
36-7-4-801                      156.009
36-7-4-802                      156.009
36-7-4-900                      155.009
36-7-4-901                      156.130
36-7-4-916                      156.131
36-7-4-1001 through 36-7-4-1020 156.134
36-7-4-1003                     156.134
36-7-4-1109(b)                  153.01
                                153.15;
36-7-9-1 et seq.                153.17;
                                153.20
36-7-9-2                        153.17
36-7-9-4                        153.18;
                                153.20
36-7-9-5(a)(2)                  153.20
36-7-9-14                       153.21
36-7-9-28                       153.99
36-8-2-4 et seq.                93.01;
                                93.02
36-9-25-11                      51.01;
                                53.16
                                
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2021-2   11-2-2021   31.55
2021-3   11-2-2021   31.56
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
                         151.01 through
1926-2       2-5-1926    151.04;
                         151.99
1979-5       8-7-1979    Ch. 72, Schedule IV
1983-3       8-2-1983    Ch. 72, Schedule II
1984-5       4-3-1984    31.38
1985-3       5-7-1985    Ch. 72, Schedule III
1987-8       11-10-1987  50.02
1988-7       11-3-1988   31.01
1989-3       7-11-1989   Ch. 72, Schedule I
1989-4       7-11-1989   70.02;
                         70.99
1990-5       3-12-1990   52.01 through
                         52.12
90-8         9-4-1990    51.15 through
                         51.20
90–9       9-4-1990    51.99
1991-3       6-4-1991    51.02;
                         51.99
1992-2       1-7-1992    31.38;
                         31.40
                         70.15 through
1993-1       3-2-1993    70.19;
                         70.21;
                         Ch. 73, Schedule I
                         70.22;
1993-2       3-2-1993    70.99;
                         Ch. 73, Schedule I
1996-1       8-6-1996    Ch. 73, Schedule I
1997-7       8-5-1997    Ch. 72, Schedule I
1998-5       7-7-1998    33.01
1998-9       10-6-1998   70.01;
                         70.99
                         153.15 through
1998-12      12-1-1998   153.22;
                         153.99
                         71.25 through
2001-2       6-5-2001    71.28;
                         71.99;
                         Ch. 72, Schedule IV
2001-4       6-5-2001    Ch. 73, Schedule I
                         156.001 through
                         156.007;
                         156.009;
                         156.020 through
                         156.024;
                         156.035 through
                         156.039;
                         156.050 through
2002-5       7-2-2002    156.057;
                         156.070 through
                         156.074;
                         156.105 through
                         156.115;
                         156.130 through
                         156.134;
                         156.145 through
                         156.154;
                         156.999
                         155.001 through
                         155.011;
                         155.025 through
                         155.029;
                         155.040 through
                         155.050;
                         155.065 through
                         155.074;
2002-13      9-3-2002    155.085 through
                         155.100;
                         155.115 through
                         155.117;
                         155.130 through
                         155.135;
                         155.150 through
                         155.153;
                         155.999
2002-12      11-5-2002   156.145
2004-3       9-7-2004    Ch. 73, Schedule II
2004-5       9-7-2004    70.20
                         30.01;
2004-6       12-7-2004   30.02;
                         30.99
                         110.01 through
2004-7       1-4-2005    110.10;
                         110.99
                         156.009;
2005-1       2-1-2005    156.054;
                         156.075;
                         156.147
                         91.01 through
                         91.04;
                         91.15 through
                         91.21;
2005-4       11-1-2005   91.35 through
                         91.37;
                         91.50 through
                         91.53;
                         91.99
                         156.009;
2005-5       11-1-2005   156.054;
                         156.145
2006-4       10-3-2006   50.04
2008-1       9-2-2008    51.03
                         156.009;
2008-5       11-4-2008   156.090 through
                         156.093
2009-1       7-7-2009    156.007;
                         156.008
                         52.25 through
2010-2       9-7-2010    52.41;
                         52.99
                         154.001 through
                         154.003;
                         154.015 through
                         154.018;
                         154.030 through
                         154.036;
                         154.050 through
                         154.069;
                         154.080 through
2010-3       10-6-2010   154.087;
                         154.100 through
                         154.107;
                         154.120 through
                         154.129;
                         154.140 through
                         154.150;
                         154.165 through
                         154.175;
                         154.999;
                         Ch. 154, Appendix A
                         92.01;
                         92.15 through
2011-2       5-3-2011    92.21;
                         92.35 through
                         92.43;
                         92.99
2012-2       2-7-2012    53.01
2012-5       4-3-2012    53.02;
                         53.03
2012-8       5-1-2012    31.38
2012-9       6-5-2012    31.02
                         53.15;
2012-1       7-24-2012   53.17;
                         53.19
2013-3       10-1-2013   32.01
2013 BCCO-32 11-18-2013  50.20;
                         Ch. 50, Appendix B
2014-1       1-21-2014   32.01
2014-2       3-18-2014   32.02
2014-7       5-6-2014    50.20;
                         Ch. 50, Appendix B
                         152.01 through
                         152.16;
                         152.30 through
2015-1       1-6-2015    152.37;
                         152.50 through
                         152.55;
                         152.99
2015-2       2-3-2015    50.01
2015-3       2-3-2015    52.35
                         90.01 through
2015-5       4-7-2015    90.10;
                         90.99
2015-6       4-7-2015    31.15 through
                         31.21
2015-7       4-7-2015    32.03
                         93.01 through
2015-12      10-6-2015   93.09;
                         93.99
2016-3       5-17-2016   33.05
2016-4       5-17-2016   30.15 through
                         30.19
2016-9       9-20-2016   92.01
2017-4       8-15-2017   31.35
                         53.15;
2017-8       11-7-2017   53.16;
                         53.18;
                         53.20
2017-9       11-7-2017   53.16
2017-3       12-5-2017   150.01 through
                         150.08
2018-4       4-3-2018    31.37
2018-5       6-5-2018    31.36;
                         31.39
2018-8       9-18-2018   33.02
                         94.01;
2018-9       10-2-2018   94.02;
                         94.99
2019-7       7-16-2019   50.03;
                         Ch. 50, Appendix A
2019-8       8-6-2019    153.01
2019-9       9-3-2019    50.05
2019-12      12-3-2019   33.03
2019-13      12-3-2019   33.20 through
                         33.25
2020-2       10-20-2020  71.01 through
                         71.11
2021-3       4-6-2021    33.04
2021-4       5-18-2021   32.04
2021-8       12-7-2021   51.01
2022-1       2-15-2022   Ch. 72, Schedule V
2022-2       2-15-2022   Ch. 73, Schedule I
2023-3       6-20-2023   33.40,
                         33.41
2024-1       4-16-2024   92.36
2024-3       7-16-2024   Ch.50, Appendix A
2024-4       7-16-2024   Ch.50, Appendix A
                        
 
