GREENVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-TO-01, passed 1-8-2024; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2023 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO: 2021-TO-009
ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF GREENVILLE, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF GREENVILLE DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of
Greenville, Indiana are inadequately arranged and classified and are
insufficient in form and substance for the complete preservation of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the Town of Greenville, Indiana
and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Town of Greenville, Indiana to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance book form;
and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Town of Greenville, Indiana has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Town of Greenville, Indiana of a general and permanent nature and
publication of such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Town of Greenville, Indiana and for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the Town of Greenville, Indiana,
that this ordinance take effect at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF
GREENVILLE, INDIANA, AS FOLLOWS:
   1   The general ordinance of the Town of Greenville, Indiana as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted and
shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Greenville, Indiana."
   2   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles:
      TITLE I:   General Provisions
      TITLE III:   Administration
      TITLE V:   Public Works
      TITLE VII:   Traffic Code
      TITLE IX:   General Regulations
      TITLE XI:   Business Regulations
      TITLE XIII:   General Offenses
      TITLE XV:   Land Usage
   3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective dale of this
ordinance except as they are included in and reordained in whole or in part in
such Code; provided such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall any repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Common Council of the Town of Greenville, Indiana and the
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Greenville, Indiana is hereby authorized and
ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Floyd
County Clerk.
   5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section 6,
and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance, and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings notices thereof
as required by law have been given.
   6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure in nature for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Town Of Greenville, Indiana, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF GREENVILLE, INDIANA ON
THE 14 DAY OF JUNE 2021.
   PRESIDENT OF THE TOWN
   COUNCIL OF GREENVILLE, INDIANA
    ___________________________________
   GREGORY S. REDDEN
__________________________________________
JACK TRAVILLIAN
CLERK-TREASURER
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Greenville Town
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Greenville, Indiana.
      COUNTY. Floyd County.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. Greenville Township.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   POLICE AND FIRE
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
33.   TAX, FEES AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: POLICE AND FIRE
Section
   
30.01   Reserve officer
   
30.02   Greenville Township Fire Protection District
   
30.03   Hiring/removal of deputy town marshals; reserve officers
   
30.04   Marshal’s Department
   
30.05   Marshal’s Department Detective; chain of command
   
30.06   Volunteer Fire Department
   
30.07   Purchases for the Marshal’s Department from insurance proceeds
   
30.08   Highlander Fire Protection District
§ 30.01 RESERVE OFFICER.
   (A)   Establishment. Hereby established is the position of Reserve Officer
within the town.
   (B)   Appointment. The Town Marshal is hereby authorized to appoint a
Reserve Officer, who will be confirmed by resolution at any regular meeting of
Town Council, or special meeting called for the purpose of any person or
persons to the position of Reserve Officer under such conditions and
limitations as may be designated in said resolution. Said Council may similarly
by resolution remove any person from said position at any time said Council
deems such removal appropriate.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   The Reserve Officer, upon appointment, is hereby authorized to
temporarily, during the period of his or her appointment, and while under the
direction of the Town Marshal or the County Sheriff to enforce all ordinances
of the town, whether heretofore or hereafter enacted, and regardless of whether
such ordinances specifically designate a different official to enforce the same
or do not designate any particular enforcing officer.
      (2)   The authority of the Reserve Officer shall at all times be
auxiliary to the authority of the Town Marshal and/or any ordinance enforcing
officer of the town. Any ordinance-enforcing authority of police officers and
other officers specifically designated in any town ordinance as enforcing
officers shall continue in full force and effect and shall in no way be
diminished or impaired by the terms of the within ordinance.
   (D)   Definitions. The Reserve Officer’s authority herein specified shall
include investigation of ordinance violations and other suspected criminal
activity; serving notice of violations; serving appearance tickets as
authorized under I.C. 36-5-7-6; appearance in court or other judicial or quasi-
judicial proceedings to assist in the prosecution of violators; assisting
police officers or Deputy Sheriffs in making arrests and such other specific
authority or duties as may be delegated to such Reserve Officer by a Town
Marshal or County Sheriff directing said Reserve Officer.
   (E)   Statutory reference. The Reserve Officer is hereby declared to be a
member of the Town Marshal Auxiliary under the provisions of I.C. 36-5-7-6.
(Ord. 2007-T-82, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 30.02 GREENVILLE TOWNSHIP FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-4(b), the town consents to the town’s inclusion in
the Greenville Township Fire Protection District.
(Ord. 2019-TO-030, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 30.03 HIRING/REMOVAL OF DEPUTY TOWN MARSHALS; RESERVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Deputy Marshal staffing.
      (1)   The Town Council recognizes the need for additional police officers
pursuant to I.C. 36-5-7-6.
      (2)   The Marshal Department is to have no more than two paid deputies at
any time. The additional deputies for the Town Marshal’s Department should be
appointed by the Town Marshal. The deputy shall serve at the pleasure of the
Town Marshal and shall be subject to the orders of said Marshal, who may
discharge him or her at any time. The Town Marshal is authorized to hire up to
two additional deputies with the funding available from annual budget.
      (3)   The Council will solely be responsible for paying the salaries; the
Council shall set the monthly wages for each additional deputy with available
funding not to exceed budgetary restraints issued by state statutes.
   (B)   Reserve Officer staffing.
      (1)   Appointment. The Town Marshal is hereby authorized to appoint or
remove as many Reserve Officers as he or she deems necessary to protect the
citizens of the town and enforce its ordinances authorized under I.C. 36-8-3-
20.
      (2)   Duties. The authority of the Reserve Officer shall at all times be
auxiliary to the authority of the Town Marshal as authorized under 250 I.A.C.
2-6-1, 250 I.A.C. 2-6-2 and 250 I.A.C. 2-9-1.
(Ord. 2009-T-004, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 30.04 MARSHAL’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council President is the executive officer of the Town
Marshal’s Department. The Town Council President is authorized to designate a
Council committee chair to be the liaison between the Marshals’s Department and
the Town Council President and the Town Council. Designee will be responsible
for the operation of the Marshal’s Department, propose to the Council for a
vote of all equipment necessary for the proper operation of the Marshal’s
Department. Designee will be responsible to report to the Town Council
President any complaints received against the Marshal, Deputy Marshals and
Reserve Officers. The designee will be appointed by the Town Council President
in January of each year.
   (B)   The Town Council President or his or her designee will not possess any
arrest powers. Their position is an administrative position only.
   (C)   The Town Marshal position is to be a hired position by a vote of the
Town Council. The Town Council by vote may remove the Marshal from his or her
position given just cause.
   (D)   The Town Council will set compensation for the Marshal position and
Deputy Marshal positions.
   (E)   The Town Council and the Town Marshal shall develop ordinances and
standard operating procedures for the Marshal Department. All ordinances and
standard operating procedures are to be approved by the Town Council by a vote.
A copy of all ordinances and standard operating procedures are to be kept on an
electronic file on the town CPU. A printed copy of all ordinances and standard
operating procedures to be kept in a loose leaf binder in the Town Clerk-
Treasurer’s office.
   (F)   The Town Council shall provide the Town Marshal’s Department,
contained within a loose leaf binder, all enforceable ordinances, all standard
operating procedures approved by the Town Council.
   (G)   The Town Marshal is authorized under town Ord. 2009-T-004 to hire up
to two Deputy Marshals and as many Reserve Officers necessary to operate the
Marshal’s Department efficiently (as funds for liability insurance will allow).
   (H)   The Town Marshal shall keep all records of current and past Deputy
Marshals and Reserve Officers on file at the Town Marshal’s Department office.
These records are to include all training received that authorizes the Marshal,
Deputy Marshals and Reserve Officers to exercise their arrest powers.
   (I)   The Town Marshal is to report to the Town Council President or his or
her designee all written reports concerning hours worked and incident records
as requested by Town Council President or his or her designee.
   (J)   The Town Marshal shall submit a written report to the Town Council in
the monthly meeting all activities of the Marshal’s Department since the
previous Town Council monthly meeting.
   (K)   The Town Marshal, Deputy Marshal and Reserve Officers can request the
presence of the Town Council President or designee as an observer only at any
incident involving the Town Marshal’s Department within the corporate limits of
the town if he or she deems it necessary.
(Ord. 2009-T-017, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 30.05 MARSHAL’S DEPARTMENT DETECTIVE; CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   (A)   The position of Marshal’s Department Detective shall be created upon
passage of this section and have an effective date of March 1, 2010.
   (B)   The starting salary for the Marshal’s Department Detective shall be
$12,000.
   (C)   The position of Marshal’s Department Detective shall be budgeted under
the town’s General Fund with an account number established and listed as a
separate item on the monthly budget sheets.
   (D)   The chain of command for the Marshal Department shall be as follows:
      (1)   Town Marshal;
      (2)   Town Marshal’s Department Detective;
      (3)   Deputy Town Marshal; and
      (4)   Reporting directly to the Town Marshal and acting under the arrest
powers of the Town Marshal any Town Marshal’s Department reserve members.
(Ord. 2010-M-004, passed 2-22-2010)
§ 30.06 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Town Volunteer Fire Department provides fire coverage to the
residents of the town.
   (B)   The Township Fire Board is responsible for managing the receipt and
expenditure of funds concerning the Town Volunteer Fire Department.
   (C)   The town contracts with the Town Volunteer Fire Department and the
Township Fire Board on an annual basis for fire coverage for the residents of
the town.
   (D)   The parties intend on adopting a formula that would equalize the cost
of coverage for the residents of the town as compared to the cost of coverage
paid for by the Greenville Township.
   (E)   The Greenville Township residents pay a general firefighting tax and a
cumulative fund tax that is generated by the adjusted net assessed value of
property as maintained by the County Auditor’s office.
   (F)   The parties agree that it would be equitable to divide the dollars
generated by the general firefighting tax and cumulative fund tax by the
adjusted net assessed value that generated the tax and multiplying that
percentage by the adjusted net assessed value of real estate in the town as
maintained by the County Auditor’s office.
   (G)   The following formula would calculate the town’s obligation for
payment of fire coverage for the residents of the town.
      (1)   The Township General Firefighting Tax Revenue divided by the
adjusted net assessed value multiplied by the adjusted net assessed value of
the town equals the town general firefighting tax.
      (2)   The Greenville Township Cumulative Tax Revenue divided by the
adjusted net assessed value of the Greenville Township property multiplied by
the adjusted net assessed value of the town property equals the Cumulative Fund
Tax owed by the town.
      (3)   The total tax to be paid by the town is A + B as described above.
   (H)   The parties hereby agree to adopt the formula as described herein to
calculate the fire tax that the town will pay to the Greenville Township Board
for fire coverage by the Town Volunteer Fire Department. The parties further
resolve and agree that should the amount figured decrease due to the calculated
tax base, that both parties will discuss and agree upon the most reasonable
amount acceptable to both.
(Res. passed 12-12-2005)
§ 30.07 PURCHASES FOR THE MARSHAL’S DEPARTMENT FROM INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is authorized to purchase office equipment and
supplies that were lost and/or damaged due to storms.
   (B)   Office purchases will be made using the town’s Water Utility’s Office
Depot account and reimbursement to the utility will be made by the town from
proceeds received from the insurance company.
   (C)   The Town Marshal will provide receipts from purchases to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Total expenditures should not exceed proceeds actually received from
the insurance company at the time of purchase.
(Ord. 2020-TO-018, passed 11-9-2020)
§ 30.08 HIGHLANDER FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-4(b), the town consents to the town’s inclusion in
the Highlander Fire Protection District.
(Ord. 2023-TO-009, passed 7-10-2023)
 
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Plan Commission
   
31.02   Historic Preservation Commission
§ 31.01 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The town hereby designates the County Advisory Plan Commission as its
Municipal Plan Commission.
   (B)   The town shall develop and adopt zoning ordinances and Comprehensive
Land Use Plan in conjunction with the County Planner to be applied to the town
and enforceable by the County Municipal Plan Commission.
   (C)   The Town Council, in the interest of the town, reserves the right
through a town resolution to terminate this agreement at any future date.
(Ord. 2009-R-031, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 31.02 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   The following public advisory group will be created as a result of this
section.
   (A)   Historic Preservation Commission.
      (1)   The primary function of the Commission is to identify buildings,
structures, sites and objects which are architecturally or historically
significant. The Commission will draft a historic structure preservation plan;
develop restoration, remodeling and architectural guidelines; and submit
proposals for grants and funding in an effort to protect the town’s historic
assets.
      (2)   Objectives of the Historic Preservation Commission:
         (a)   Identify and inventory all historic assets within the town;
         (b)   Submit a detailed plan of preservation to the Town Council;
         (c)   Obtain recognition for The Station building as a National
Register of Historic Places by the National Park Service;
         (d)   Identify funding sources for future preservation projects;
         (e)   Apply and submit proposals for federal, state and local grant
money to complete historic preservation projects;
         (f)   Educate residents on the availability and application process of
federal and state grant monies for the completion of historical restoration
projects; and
         (g)   Promote the use of historic landmarks to attract visitors.
   (B)   Governance.
      (1)   Application. Governance shall apply to all public advisory groups.
      (2)   Appointment. Appointment to a public advisory group:
         (a)   A Council member of the Town Council must nominate a resident
for consideration;
         (b)   To be considered a resident for appointment, a person must
reside or be employed within the county;
         (c)   Once a nomination is received for a qualified candidate or
candidates, the Town Council shall vote requiring a majority to ratify the
nomination; and
         (d)   Members of the public advisory groups serve in a volunteer
capacity and do not receive compensation from the town.
      (3)   Term.
         (a)   Each of the public advisory groups may consist of up to six
elected residents.
         (b)   Each elected resident will serve out a two-year term with the
decision to renew at the end of the term being left up to the Town Council.
      (4)   Ad hoc members.
         (a)   Each public advisory group can consist of one Town Council
member;
         (b)   Each public advisory group may consist of the Town Marshal; or
         (c)   Each public advisory group can appoint outside professionals
with knowledge in various aspects of the public advisory groups
responsibilities. Examples would be state elected officials, non-profit group
leaders and/or organizations which are funding certain project elements.
      (5)   Conflicts of interest.
         (a)   A member shall not cast a vote on any issue before the
Preservation Commission which involves the interests of that member or an
organization in which that member has an ownership interest or position of
control or directly represents. Neither shall a member cast a vote on any
matter which could provide direct financial benefit to that member.
         (b)   Whenever a conflict of interest situation arises in the conduct
of business the following actions shall be taken:
            1.   The individual member shall divulge the existence and reasons
for the potential conflict;
            2.   The public advisory group shall decide if such a conflict
exists;
            3.   If it is decided that a conflict exists, the affected member
shall refrain from presenting, voting on or discussing the project, other than
answering a direct question; and
            4.   Should the Preservation Commission determine that a conflict
of interest does not exist, the nature of the alleged conflict and the reason
(s) for determining a conflict did not exist shall be entered into the minutes.
      (6)   Meetings. Public advisory groups will meet at least quarterly.
(Ord. 2016-TR-028, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 2017-TR-003, passed 2-13-2017)
CHAPTER 32: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
32.01   Services provided to proposed property to be annexed
   
32.02   Town Council to sign building permit resolutions
   
32.03   Emergency management
   
32.04   Emergency shelter
   
32.05   Disaster response plan
   
32.06   Preparing and submission for publication of the town yearly budget
   
32.07   Development and requirements of written ordinances and meeting minutes;
recording, keeping of
   
32.08   Electronic meetings policy
§ 32.01 SERVICES PROVIDED TO PROPOSED PROPERTY TO BE ANNEXED.
   (A)   The cost estimates of planned services to be furnished to any
territory to be annexed are as follows:
      (1)   Marshal protection: currently provided to territory to be annexed
by the County Sheriff’s Department only;
      (2)   Fire service: currently provided to the territory to be annexed by
the Greenville Township Volunteer Fire Department;
      (3)   Street lighting: currently provided to the territory to be annexed;
      (4)   Street and road maintenance;
      (5)   Water service: currently provided to the territory to be annexed by
the town water utility;
      (6)   Snow removal on roadways;
      (7)   Community’s for curb side trash pick up; and
      (8)   Opportunity to run for elected position on Town Council to help
shape our community.
   (B)   The method of financing the plan services shall be as follows:
      (1)   Marshal protection: corporation tax and property tax;
      (2)   Fire service: corporation tax and property tax;
      (3)   Street lighting: state distribution Motor Vehicle Fund;
      (4)   Street and road maintenance: state distribution Motor Vehicle Fund
and Local Roads and Street Funds;
      (5)   Water service: current rates charged by town water utility;
      (6)   Snow removal on roadways: State Distribution Motor Vehicle Fund and
Local Roads and Street Funds;
      (7)   Community rates for curb side trash pick up: rates charged by
contracted trash hauler; and
      (8)   Opportunity to run for elected position on Town Council to help
shape the community: property owners quality to run for Town Council position
every four years.
   (C)   The plan for the organization and extension of the services set forth
above to the annexed territory shall be as follows: the area is currently lying
within or is adjacent to an area currently within the town corporate limits.
   (D)   The services planned for the annexed territory which are of a non-
capital nature, will be provided to the annexed territory within one year after
the effective of annexation; and these services will be provided in a manner
equivalent in the standard and scope to those of non-capital services provided
to areas within the corporate limits of the town that have similar topography
plats of land use and population density.
(Ord. 2010-R-034, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 32.02 TOWN COUNCIL TO SIGN BUILDING PERMIT RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   Final building permit decisions are made by a majority vote of the
Town Council.
   (B)   The President of the Town Council or his or her designee is authorized
by this section to review plans submitted by those seeking to acquire a
building permit resolution and issue a building permit resolution to the Town
Council for final approval and signature.
   (C)   This shall apply to all new constructions and new constructions to
existing structures if such structures adhere to all town ordinances and
resolutions.
   (D)   This does not apply to any structure that will require a construction
building permit variance before construction can begin. All construction
building permit variances requested shall be reviewed by the entire Council
present at the next monthly meeting, or if scheduled, special meeting.
   (E)   Any denial of a building permit resolution by the President of the
Town Council can be appealed to the entire Council present at the next
scheduled monthly meeting, or if scheduled, special meeting.
(Res. 2015-TR-034, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 32.03 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   This section adopts the amended County Indiana Emergency Management
Agency Reference Guide, dated April 2011, as adopted by Res. 2009-R-020 dated
May 11, 2009 and the County Health Department Mass Prophylaxis Plan including
all hazards signed by local health officer on April 15, 2011 for the town.
   (B)   See amended plans attached to the ordinance from which this section is
derived.
(Ord. 2011-TR-036, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 32.04 EMERGENCY SHELTER.
   (A)   Emergency shelter will be located at the corner of Cross and Clark
Street within the Town Hall, Town Hall basement and the water company
outbuildings.
   (B)   The shelter will be open for an emergency where electrical power
service is interrupted for more than 48 hours or in weather conditions where
the temperature is less than 40°F the shelter will be open within 24 hours.
   (C)   Emergency situation is a situation where a state of emergency has been
declared for the town area by the Town Marshal’s Department, or the Town
Council President.
   (D)   The emergency shelter is being provided for electrical and heating
services only. Any bedding material, water or food supplies are to be brought
to the shelter by those requiring use of the facilities. No alcoholic
beverages, pornographic type materials or smoking will be allowed within
buildings or on outside parking areas.
   (E)   Citizens using the facility shall be required to conduct themselves in
a proper, moral, courteous manner. No improper (vulgar) language, improper
physical gestures, arguments or fighting, inciting arguments or fighting will
be permitted. Anyone participating in these activities will be asked to leave.
   (F)   Citizens using the facility which bring dependent children under the
age of 18 are required to supervise their children that they are not disruptive
to others using the shelter. If children are disruptive the parents and
children will be asked to leave.
   (G)   Citizens using the facility are required to register with the
authority in charge giving name, phone number, address, number of persons in
party and their names. Citizens refusing to provide this information will not
be allowed the use of the shelter.
   (H)   The authorized authority in charge of the shelter in the case of an
emergency situation will include any of the following: Town Marshal; Deputy
Marshal; Reserve Officer; Town Council President; Town Council member; Town
Clerk-Treasurer; and the Town Water Superintendent.
   (I)   There shall be an authority in charge at all times during the shelter
being open to the Town Public Emergency Services Committee Chair to open the
shelter and provide a list of personnel to staff facility and hours to be
present.
   (J)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is to purchase two emergency shelter signs
after passing of this section. One to be posted on the outside wall of the Town
Hall, one to be posted on the outside wall of the water company outbuilding.
These signs are to be posted in a manner to be viewable from the intersection
of Cross and Clark streets located in the town.
(Ord. 2009-R-018, passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.05 DISASTER RESPONSE PLAN.
   (A)   Plans authorized precedencies. In the case of a natural disaster, Res.
2009-R-021 will be the deciding town resolution or ordinance. Other passed
plans shall remain in effect but will be enforceable only when the complete
Town Council is incapacitated, or the natural disaster is of such a nature that
it exceeds the capabilities of the Town Council to provide needed relief to the
residents of the town, or it is a pandemic situation that requires a Board of
Health physician to oversee the public health. However in the case of a
pandemic situation the Town Council President, Town Council, Town Marshal’s
Department members and the Town Water Utility Superintendent will work with
Board of Health physician for the health and safety of the town residents.
   (B)   Declaration of a disaster emergency situation.
      (1)   Emergency declared by the President of the United States for an
area which includes the town.
      (2)   Emergency declared by the Governor of the state for an area which
includes the town.
      (3)   Emergency declared by the County Council for an area which includes
the town.
      (4)   Emergency declared by the state police from Sellersburg, Indiana
Post for an area which includes the town.
      (5)    Emergency declared by the County Sheriff Department for an area
which includes the town.
      (6)   Emergency declared by:
         (a)   The Town Council President (if not incapacitated);
         (b)   The Town Council Vice-President (if not incapacitated);
         (c)   A Town Council member (if not incapacitated);
         (d)   The Town Marshal (if not incapacitated); and
         (e)   The Town Deputy Marshal (if not incapacitated).
      (7)   When a state of emergency is declared in accordance with divisions
(B)(1) through (B)(5) above, the emergency situation shall be assessed by town
officials stated in division (B)(6) above before an emergency evacuation will
begin.
   (C)   When a declaration of a disaster emergency situation has been
declared. When a disaster emergency situation has been declared by one of the
following:
      (1)   The Town Council President (if not incapacitated);
      (2)   The Town Council Vice-President (if not incapacitated);
      (3)   A Town Council member (if not incapacitated);
      (4)   The Town Marshal (if not incapacitated); and
      (5)   The Town Deputy Marshal (if not incapacitated) shall be the acting
town official to oversee the town disaster response team.
   (D)   Procedures to be followed in the event of a disaster. In accordance
with this section, a disaster emergency that has been declared may require the
official in charge to render decisions that will hold the town liable for
financial expenditures necessary to address the disaster situation. In
acceptance by the vote of the Town Council for this section, the Town Council
declares its unanimous consent for such necessary expenditures; however
accurate records are to be kept for all such expenditures.
   (E)   Town response team and responsibilities.
      (1)   The Town Council President shall be the town official in charge of
the town disaster response team. The Town Council President shall direct all
response team members to coordinate their efforts to best serve the town
community.
      (2)    The Town Council Vice President shall be the town official in
charge of contacting and working in conjunction with the town official in
charge, shall contact:
         (a)   All news organizations (radio, television, newspapers) necessary
to inform town residents of disaster situation;
         (b)   All hospitals, emergency services, electrical and telephone
services affected by the disaster situation within the town corporate limits;
and
         (c)   Act as official liaison between the town and all news media.
      (3)   The Town Council Special Projects Chairperson shall:
         (a)   Consult with the town disaster response official in charge to
the extent of the disaster. Under the direction of the official in charge they
shall caused to be opened the town emergency shelter or contact the appropriate
state or county officials requesting emergency shelter, water and food staples
for disaster victims.
         (b)   In the event that the town emergency shelter is activated they
shall work in conjunction with the town official in charge in accordance with
Ord. 2009-T-018 and provide a roster of staff to maintain and operate the
shelter.
         (c)   In the event that the town emergency shelter is not activated
they shall work in conjunction with the town official in charge and the Town
Marshal’s Department in evaluating disaster victims to a shelter that may be
provided by others.
      (4)   The Town Council Streets and Roads Chairperson shall consult with
the town disaster response official in charge to the extent of the disaster.
Under the direction of the official in charge and in conjunction with the Town
Marshal’s Department they shall caused to have any blocked or closed streets,
roadways or alleyways cleared of debris to allow the accessibility of emergency
vehicles to assist disaster victims.
      (5)   The Town Council Emergency Services Chairperson shall be the town
official in charge of overseeing the Town Marshal’s Department operations and
working in conjunction with the town official in charge, shall:
         (a)   Contact and direct to where they are needed emergency personnel
needed in assisting disaster victims;
         (b)   Locate any special equipment or services needed to aid and
assist the Marshal Department’s disaster relief efforts;
         (c)   Assist the Streets and Road Chairperson in obtaining necessary
equipment to clear any blocked streets, roadways or alleyways to be cleared;
         (d)   Assist Town Marshal’s Department in locating additional law
enforcement help if required; and
         (e)   Assist the Special Projects Chairperson in opening and staffing
of the town emergency shelter.
      (6)   The Town Water Company Superintendent shall be the town official in
charge of overseeing the town water operations and working in conjunction with
the town official in charge shall:
         (a)   Contact and assemble water company personnel as needed to assist
disaster victims;
         (b)   Locate potable water supplies for drinking and personal hygiene;
         (c)   Notify the town water company water suppliers of disaster
emergency status and water situation and needs for disaster victims; and
         (d)   Assist the Special Projects Chairperson in opening and staffing
of the town emergency shelter.
      (7)   The Town Marshal and his or her Department shall provide security
operations and working in conjunction with the town official in charge shall:
         (a)   Provide traffic control;
         (b)   Provide emergency aid to disaster victims;
         (c)   Assist in maintaining enforcement of rules and regulations of
town emergency shelter;
         (d)   Provide law enforcement to prevent looting and crimes in
disaster areas;
         (e)   Assist the Special Projects Chairperson in opening and staffing
of the town emergency shelter;
         (f)   Provide Reserve Officer with patrol unit for courier service in
the event that telephone services have been interrupted;
         (g)   Provide Reserve Officer with patrol unit for official personnel,
if required;
         (h)   Request additional help from surrounding law enforcement
agencies, if required;
         (i)   If additional law enforcement help is not available the Marshal
is authorized by the Town Council unanimous vote per this section to swear in
special Reserve Officers as needed. These officers will not have any arrest
powers or carry a sidearm. These officers shall be used for traffic control
only. They may also be used for foot patrolling, but must report to the Marshal
or member of the Town Marshal’s Department any suspicious activities. They are
not to try to apprehend anyone suspected of illegal activities; and
         (j)   Provide assistance to all other town disaster response officials
in charge.
      (8)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall, in conjunction with the town
disaster response officials, obtain, receive and hold all documentation and
receipts to substantiate any expenditure created by the disaster relief.
      (9)   In the worse case scenario, if all town disaster response officials
are incapacitated, citizens of the town are to follow the instructions of the
state, county or law enforcement agencies responding to the disasters.
      (10)   This plan to be posted in the town water company and in the Town
Hall at all times for public viewing.
      (11)   See list of current names and telephone numbers of recommended
emergency contact information.
(Ord. 2009-R-021, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 32.06 PREPARING AND SUBMISSION FOR PUBLICATION OF THE TOWN YEARLY BUDGET.
   (A)   The Town Council President shall schedule a special meeting two weeks
prior to the Chief Financial Officer (Clerk-Treasurer) meeting with the state
local government finance in accordance with I.C. 36-5-3-3.
   (B)   The Chief Financial Officer (Clerk-Treasurer) shall present for
discussion to the Town Council the proposed budget information to be submitted
to the state local government finance and for the publication of budget forms.
   (C)   The Chief Financial Officer (Clerk-Treasurer) shall notify the Town
Council when meeting with the state local government finance has been
completed.
   (D)   The Chief Financial Officer (Clerk-Treasurer) shall submit a copy of
the yearly budget to the County Council 45 days prior to the final adoption of
the yearly budget.
   (E)   The Chief Financial Officer (Clerk-Treasurer) shall notify the Town
Council when first and second publication of budget forms has been completed
(I.C. 6-1.1-17-3). This publication shall be completed within two weeks of
meeting with the state local government finance.
   (F)   The Town Council President shall schedule the first public hearing on
the budget no sooner than ten days after first publication and no sooner than
three days after second publication. The Chief Financial Officer (Clerk-
Treasurer) shall provide copy of publication to the Town Council.
   (G)   The Town Council President shall schedule the second public hearing on
the budget no sooner than ten days after first public hearing for adoption of
the budget by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2009-R-063, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 32.07 DEVELOPMENT AND REQUIREMENTS OF WRITTEN ORDINANCES AND MEETING MINUTES;
RECORDING, KEEPING OF.
   (A)   Document size. All ordinances and monthly minutes are to be recorded
on a paper size not to exceed eight and one-half inches by 11 inches.
   (B)   Ordinance development.
      (1)   The numbering system for recording any ordinances beginning January
1, 2009 shall be as follows.
         (a)   The first four digits of any ordinance shall begin with the year
it is passed or proposed with a hyphen behind. Example: the year of the writing
of this ordinance is 2009-. Next year would begin with 2010-, so on and so
forth.
         (b)   The next digit in the ordinance will be a letter. The letters
used will be as follows.
            1.   TO = Town Ordinance.
            2.   TSO = Town Salary Ordinance.
            3.   TR = Town Resolution.
            4.   MO = Marshal Ordinance.
            5.   MSO = Marshal Salary Ordinance.
            6.   MR = Marshal Resolutions.
            7.   WO = Water Utility Ordinance.
            8.   WSO = Water Utility Salary Ordinance.
            9.   WR = Water Utility Resolution.
            10.   BPR = Building Permit Resolution.
         (c)   The last three digits of any ordinance shall begin with 001
through 999 for that year. At the end of any given year the last three digits
will begin over again with 001 through 999. The last three digits will not be
used for any other ordinance whether the middle letter is T, W, R or M.
Example: an ordinance which is numbered 2009-TO-001 can not also have a number
of 2009-WO-001, 2009-TR-001 or 2009-MO-001. The proper way for these to be
numbered would be: 2009-TR-001, 2009-WO-002, 2009-TR-003 and 2009-MO-004.
      (2)   The next lines are to contain the official title of the ordinance
being proposed for passage. See example:
ORDINANCE TO ESTABLISH THE PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND
REQUIREMENTS OF WRITTEN ORDINANCES AND WRITE MONTHLY MEETINGS MINUTES AND THE
PROCEDURE FOR RECORDING OR AND KEEPING OF, THESE DOCUMENTS FOR THE TOWN OF
GREENVILLE. INDIANA
      (3)   The next line is to contain the following information as per this
example:
WHEREAS, the Town Council for the Town of Greenville, Indiana, in the interest
of public records keeping, find it necessary that the Town develop an Ordinance
for the procedure and information required for written ordinances and written
monthly minutes and record keeping for the Town of Greenville, Indiana;
      (4)   The next line is to contain the following information as per this
example:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF GREENVILLE,
INDIANA, AS FOLLOWS:
      (5)   The next line is to contain the section topic information as per
this example:
ORDINANCE DEVELOPMENT:
      (6)   The information under each section is a legal description of the
content of the ordinance as written for this section.
      (7)   All pages of the ordinance are to be numbered in the lower right
hand corner, one through and the like. All ordinances are to have the title at
the top of each page. See example.
      (8)   After completion of the body of the ordinance, the ordinance will
end with the adoption day, month, year, who prepared the ordinance and
appropriate signatures required. The only signatures required on the ordinance
will be the presiding Town Council officer and attested to by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. See example below:
ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF GREENVILLE, INDIANA, ON THE 12th DAY OF JANUARY,
2009.
__________________________________         _________________________________
DAFFY DUCK, CLERK-TREASURER            PRESIDENT OF THE TOWN COUNCIL
                           OF GREENVILLE, INDIANA
_____________________________            _________________________________
PREPARED BY: BUGS BUNNY               ELMER FUDD
      (9)   If an ordinance that is being considered for adoption by the Town
Council is to replace an existing ordinance or revise an ordinance, that
ordinance number is to appear in the new ordinance with a copy of that
ordinance attached to the new ordinance. Those ordinances replaced or revised
are to be mentioned as voided and those ordinances are to be removed from the
active ordinance file and placed in the inactive or voided ordinance file.
Under no circumstances should an existing ordinance number be reused by adding
the letter A or R. Any ordinance being revised or changed will require a new
ordinance number complying with this ordinance.
      (10)   If a reference to any state or county code in an ordinance, a copy
of that code must be attached to any ordinance being considered for adoption.
Any additional information that would be helpful in supporting a new ordinance
would be recommended but not required.
      (11)   An ordinance can be generated for consideration by any Council
member, the Town Clerk- Treasurer or the Town Marshal for review and
consideration for passage by the Town Council. All new ordinances to be
considered are to be submitted to all Council members two weeks prior to when
such new ordinance is to be considered for passage to allow a period of time
for review and comments by other Council members. It will be the responsibility
of the ordinance originator to provide the information to the other Council
members either in the form of a written or electronic copy.
      (12)   All new ordinances are to be submitted to the Town Attorney for a
legal review two weeks prior to the new ordinance being considered for passage
by the Town Council.
      (13)   New ordinances require only the signature of the presiding Town
Official Council President or acting Council President in the case that the
elected Town Council President is incapacitated. An ordinance is valid only by
the recorded vote that is taken in the monthly or special meeting. Pursuant to
I.C. 36-5-2-10, an ordinance, order or resolution passed by the legislative
body is considered adopted when it is signed by the executive.
   (C)   Definition of record book to be kept by town as described below in
ordinance record-keeping; recording of town monthly town minutes and monthly
minutes record-keeping.
      (1)   Ordinance record-keeping.
         (a)   After the ordinance has been voted on and signed by the
executive, the signed copy of that ordinance is to be scanned into an
electronic PDF file (continuous to contain all documents in the same file) and
transferred into the appropriate electronic file folder for the year it was
written. The original ordinance signed copy is to be placed in a secured fire-
and water-proof environment to protect it as the official town ordinance
document. The electronic PDF file is to be maintained on the town’s official
CPU and copied onto an electronic flash key using the town’s computer USB port.
This flash key is to be stored in the town’s fire-proof safe. This flash key
will be updated within a reasonable time following the approval of the monthly
meeting minutes. Town Council members may request a copy of the electronic file
for their records from the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Clerk-Treasurer may
through e-mail forward this information to the Council member through either
their written or verbal request. This electronic information is for elected
town officials or the Town Marshal only. The PDF files of the ordinance may be
posted on the town website for citizen consumption. A copy of the signed
ordinance shall be kept in a binder system in the Town Hall. Any voided
ordinances in this binder system are to be marked as voided and replacing
ordinance number noted on voided ordinance.
         (b)   A register of documents is always crucial in the locating and
retrieving of any documents. An electronic Excel spreadsheet is to be kept on
all ordinances. This will require two spreadsheets. One spreadsheet will be the
ordinance numbering log. It will consist of listing the ordinance date in the
first column, ordinance number in the second column and ordinance title in the
third column and be referred to as the ordinance numbering Log. This log is to
be updated within a reasonable time of a new ordinance being approved by the
Council and signed and validated by the signing of the ordinance by the
executive. A printed copy of this log is to be kept in a binder by the town at
the Town Hall. The second log is to be an Excel spreadsheet called ordinance
description log. This log is to contain in the first column a description of
what is covered under that ordinance; the second column is to contain the
ordinance number. The third column is to have the ordinance date.
         (c)   This log is to be updated within a reasonable time of the
ordinance being approved and a printed copy of this log is to be kept in a
binder in the Town Hall in accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-10.2. These electronic
Excel spreadsheets are to be added to the flash key containing the town
ordinances and updated when ordinances are added to the file within a
reasonable period of time. All ordinance numbers, whether approved or denied,
will be entered on both spreadsheets. If an ordinance is a denied or withdrawn
ordinance, enter the word “denied” or “withdrawn” in the title column. This is
so all numbers can be accounted for.
      (2)   Recording of town monthly town minutes.
         (a)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is to take notes to produce a computer
word document of the town monthly minutes. The minimum requirements for this
document are the following:
            1.   Date and time of meeting;
            2.   Record what Council members are present;
            3.   Record all votes taken on any subject brought before the
Council;
            4.   Record basic subject matter discussed by the Council;
            5.   Note if any executive meetings were held since last monthly
Council meeting;
            6.   Record when meeting was adjourned;
            7.   State when next meeting will be held;
            8.   These minutes are also to contain as an attachment any
ordinances that will be approved by acceptance of the monthly minutes; and
            9.   Agenda for that month or any special posting for additional
meetings for that month.
         (b)   The Town Council may require that a Council meeting be taped.
This tape does not have to be used to produce the monthly minutes nor does it
have to be transcribed into a written form. This tape is to become part of the
town records and to be stored in a fire- and water-proof environmentally safe
place at the Town Hall for future reference and clarification of written
minutes.
         (c)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is to provide an electronic copy of the
monthly minutes within a reasonable time following the monthly meeting for
review by all Council members prior to the next meeting. Council members have
the right to revise any monthly minutes to reflect what they may consider to be
important issues to clarify a subject discussed or protect the interest of the
town. These revisions or comments must be made within a reasonable time prior
to the next Council meeting and submitted to other Council members and to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. This may be done through electronic mail.
         (d)   The Presiding Town Council Officer is to request of the Council
members if they have reviewed the monthly minutes. He or she is to request if
any member wishes to have the minutes read or discussed prior to voting to
accept the monthly minutes.
         (e)   After voting on the monthly meeting minutes, these minutes are
to be signed by the presiding town official (Town Council President or Acting
President) and attested to by the Town Clerk- Treasurer. If the minutes require
amendments, those amendments must be made before minutes are signed.
      (3)   Monthly minutes record keeping.
         (a)   After the monthly minutes have been voted on and accepted, the
monthly minutes are to be scanned into an electronic PDF file (continuous to
contain all documents in the same file) along with any supportive documents
such as agenda for that month, ordinances, financial statements, water company
reports, Marshal reports, budget reports, special postings for that month and
the like (any document mentioned in the minutes) and transferred into the
appropriate electronic file folder for the year it was written. The original
monthly minutes signed copy is to be placed in a secured fire- and water- proof
environment to protect it as the official town monthly minutes document. The
electronic PDF file is to be maintained on the town’s official CPU and copied
onto an electronic flash key using the town’s computer USB port. This flash key
is to be stored in the town’s fire-proof safe. This flash key will be updated
within a reasonable time following the approval of the monthly meeting minutes.
Town Council members may request a copy of the electronic file for their
records from the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Clerk-Treasurer may through e-
mail forward this information to the Council member through his or her their
written or verbal request. This electronic information is for elected town
officials or the Town Marshal only. The PDF files of the monthly minutes may be
posted on the town website for citizen consumption. A copy of the signed
monthly minutes shall be kept in a binder system in the Town Hall by the town.
         (b)   A register of monthly minutes is always crucial in the locating
and retrieving of any documents. An electronic Excel spreadsheet is to be kept
on all monthly minutes. The monthly minutes file name is to consist of the
month, day, year preceded by the letters MM (example: the monthly minutes for
this meeting would be MM 01-12-2009).
   (D)   Providing copies of ordinances and monthly minutes to citizens under
state code open door policy.
      (1)   The public shall have the right to inspect and copy public agency
records, all requests shall be in written form as pursuant I.C. 5-14-3-3(a)(2)
and 5-14-3-3(I).
      (2)   The cost of making any public record shall be at the requesting
party’s expense. Therefore, a standard fee shall be assessed and paid in
advance before production of those requested records as pursuant to I.C. 5-14-
3-8(C).
      (3)   Fees:
         (a)   The fee for document copies shall be $0.10 per one sided page;
and
         (b)   The fee for non-standard copies shall be 105% of the cost of
reproduction per one sided page.
      (4)   Requests shall be recorded into a journal which shall stay at the
site and be available for viewing upon request. The person recording shall note
all required information into the journal and be responsible for notifying the
appropriate responder.
         (a)   A flash key with all current ordinance and monthly meeting
minutes to be provided to the Town Water Company Clerk. This is to allow the
water company clerk to provide requested copies of these documents in the
absence of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
         (b)   This flash key is to be updated within a reasonable time
following the approval of monthly minutes and ordinances approved.
(Ord. 2009-T-001, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 2010-R-082, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 32.08 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq., including
definitions, apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “electronic meetings policy” of
the Council and applies to the Council and any committee appointed directly by
this Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) below, any member may
participate in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at the same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member's electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness of other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member’s absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness of other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates
by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent; and
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the Council may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Council may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Council’s power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose or renew a tax.
   (F)   (1)   If an emergency is declared by: (a) the Governor under I.C. 10-
14-3-12; or (b) The Town Council President under I.C. 10-14-3-29, members are
not required to be physically present for a meeting until the emergency is
terminated.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by electronic means of
communication provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person;
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session; and
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D) above.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 21-TO-011, passed 6-14-2021)
CHAPTER 33: TAX, FEES AND FINANCE
Section
General Fees and Finance
   
33.01   Issuing and use of credit cards
   
33.02   Copies; fees
   
33.03   Fees for conditional use variance, vacating alleyway request
   
33.04   Towing fee
   
33.05   Handgun licensing fees
   
33.06   Fees for accident/incident reports
   
33.07   Collection fee for commercial vehicle identification number (VIN)
checks by the Town Marshal’s Department
   
33.08   Charges for non-sufficient funds for credit card purchased for the town
water utility
Funds of the Town
   
33.20   Cash Reserve Fund
   
33.21   Police Department Petty Cash Fund
   
33.22   Sewer Utility Deposit Fund
GENERAL FEES AND FINANCE
§ 33.01 ISSUING AND USE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A) This section is adopted in compliance with the state’s Board of Accounts
Accounting and Uniform Compliance Guidelines Manual for Cities and Towns,
Chapter 7, authorizing a town to use credit cards for purchases.
   (B)   Town employees and officials may use town or utility credit cards and
purchasing cards for purchases related to the performance of town or utility
duties when such use is in the best interest of the town or utility.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer and/or Superintendent or his or her designee shall
be responsible for safekeeping of the credit cards and purchasing cards.
   (D)   Town or utility credit cards and purchasing cards shall be used only
with the approval of the Clerk-Treasurer and/or Superintendent or his or her
designee. The Clerk-Treasurer and/or Superintendent shall maintain a usage log
for each card identified by card account number, with entries certified by
signature of the Clerk-Treasurer and/or Superintendent or his or her designee.
The log shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name and position of the individual using the town card;
      (2)   Upon issuance, the date the card is issued to the individual, the
estimated amounts to be charged, the type of expenses (such as airline tickets
or office supplies) and the appropriation account numbers to be expended; and
      (3)   Upon return, the date the card is returned and the amount charged
to the card.
   (E)   Town and utility credit cards and purchasing cards shall be used for
purchases relating to the performance of town and utility business only. No
personal use of a town or utility credit card or purchasing card is allowed,
even if an employee offers to reimburse the town of the employee’s personal use
of a town and utility credit card or purchasing card.
   (F)   Payment of credit cards and purchasing card bills shall be subject to
the audit requirements of accounts payable vouchers in conformity with I.C. 5-
11-10-2 and I.C. 36-4-8 and the regulations of the state’s Board of Accounts.
Itemized receipts are required for all credit card and purchasing card
purchases, including restaurant charges. Payment will not be made on the basis
of a credit card or purchasing card statement. Signed charge slips showing a
total charge only, with no itemization of items purchased, are not acceptable.
It is the responsibility of the employee authorizing the charge to obtain
proper itemized receipts.
   (G)   Credit card and purchasing card charges that do not meet audit
requirements including charges that include the imposition of sales taxes for
which the town is otherwise exempt, are the responsibility of the employee
authorizing the charge. The town will take all necessary steps to obtain
reimbursement for charges which do not meet audit requirements from the
employee authorizing the charge, including, but not limited to, the garnishment
of the charging employee’s town or utility wages.
   (H)   Any interest or penalty incurred due to the late filing with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer of an accounts payable voucher for payment of a credit card or
purchasing card bill, or incurred due to the delay in furnishing of
documentation required for audit by an officer or employee, shall be the
responsibility of that officer or employee.
   (I)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified immediately if a credit
card or purchasing card is lost or stolen. If a credit card or purchasing card
is lost due to the negligence on the part of a town or utility employee, the
employee shall be responsible for any and all expenses incurred on the lost
card or purchasing card.
   (J)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to revoke credit cards or
purchasing cards that have been used in violation of town policy.   
(Ord. 2017-TO-006, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 33.02 COPIES; FEES.
   (A)   The Council of the town is the entity for establishing legislative
authority of the town.
   (B)   The public shall have the right to inspect and copy public agency
records, all requests shall be in written form as pursuant I.C. 5-14-3-3(a)(2).
   (C)   The cost of making any public record shall be at the requesting
party’s expense; therefore, a standard fee shall be assessed and paid in
advance before production of those requested records as pursuant to I.C. 5-14-
3-8(C) through (E).
   (D)   Fees:
      (1)   The fee for document copies shall be $0.10; and
      (2)   The fee for non-standard copies shall be 105% of the cost of
reproduction.
   (E)   Requests shall be recorded into a journal which shall stay at site and
be available for viewing upon request. The person recording shall note all
required information into the journal and be responsible for notifying the
appropriate responder.
   (F)   The Town Council has deliberated and discussed the above provisions,
and each town employee shall within normal circumstances, to best of their
abilities, carry out this duty.
(Ord. 2005-T-046, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 33.03 FEES FOR CONDITIONAL USE VARIANCE, VACATING ALLEYWAY REQUEST.
   (A)   Petitioner for vacating of alleyway or conditional use variance shall
deposit with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a fee of $100 with their written request.
   (B)   Fee shall be used by the Town Clerk-Treasurer to pay all legal
publishing and certified mail fees.
   (C)   All unused petitioner’s deposits on hand shall be returned within 30
days with receipts for expenses after vote has been completed on petitioner’s
request.
   (D)   If additional funds are required the petitioner shall be invoiced by
the Town Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days with receipts for expenses after vote
has been completed on petitioner’s request. Petitioner shall have 30 days from
date of invoice to pay additional fees.
   (E)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall accept only certified checks made
payable to the town.
(Ord. 2011-TR-032, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 33.04 TOWING FEE.
   (A)   The Town Marshal’s Department may assess a $35 tow-in fee for each
vehicle the Department orders towed.
   (B)   The Town Marshal’s Department shall collect the tow-in fee prior to
releasing any towed vehicle to its owners and shall forward the Department’s
tow-in fees to the Town Clerk-Treasurer within two business days.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to deposit any such revenues
received into the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund.
(Ord. 2010-M-044, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.05 HANDGUN LICENSING FEES.
   (A)   All fees required per state licensing schedule dated July 1, 2006 to
be collected by the Town Marshal in accordance with I.C. 35-47-2-3.
   (B)   All appropriate state forms and fingerprinting to be completed by the
Town Marshal or his or her designees for his or her review and signature in
accordance with I.C. 35-47-2-3 attached and forwarded to the ISP Firearms
Section including appropriate fees. See How Do I Apply for a Handgun License?
Finger Printing Form FD-258-ORI.
   (C)   All payments are to be made by certified check or money order only.
One check is to be made payable to the town for local fees. One check is to be
made payable to the state for state fees. Fees can not be combined on one
certified check or money order. If the application is rejected, only a portion
of those fees in accordance with schedule dated July 1, 2006 of fee assessments
is refundable.
   (D)   All fees collected and applications and fingerprinting information
obtained by the Town Marshal is to be copied and a file generated for each
applicant and submitted to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or the Town Water Company
Clerk daily to be kept on file at the Town Hall.
   (E)   The local fee collected by certified checks or money orders collected
by the Town Marshal is to be submitted to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or the Town
Water Company Clerk the next business working day for deposit in the town
banking account.
   (F)   All fees collected under this section are for the sole use of the Town
Marshal’s Department and shall be used pursuant to I.C. 35-47-2-3(h) or
successors statute.
   (G)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer or a member or the Council of the town shall
provide the County Sheriff’s Department a copy of this section. Pursuant to
I.C. 35-47-2 et seq., the County Sheriff’s Department shall direct applicants
for a handgun license that reside in the town to the Town Marshal for
licensing.
   (H)   Handgun licensing fee schedule:
License Type Local Fee State Fee
License Type                                    Local Fee           State Fee
Four-year hunting and target                    $10/$5 refundable*  $5
Four-year personal protection                   $10/$5 refundable*  $30
Lifetime hunting and target/no current license  $50/$30 refundable* $25
Lifetime hunting and target/current valid       $40/$30 refundable* $20
license
Lifetime personal protection/no current license $50/$30 refundable* $75
Lifetime personal protection/current valid      $40/$30 refundable* $60
license
Retired law enforcement officer                 Not provided in law Fee exempt
Retired corrections officer                     Not provided in law Fee exempt
Firearms dealer                                 Not provided in law Fee exempt
*A portion of the local fee is refundable if a license is not issued. The
entire state fee is refundable if no license is issued.
 
(Ord. 2008-T-93, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 33.06 FEES FOR ACCIDENT/INCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal’s Department is authorized and directed to collect a
fee of $8 for each accident and/or incident report made by the Department.
   (B)   A receipt is to be issued by the Town Marshal’s Department for each
report charged and collected: that the revenues collected shall be delivered to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer and such revenues authorized by this section shall be
deposited in a fund for the purpose of maintenance, equipment and/or training
for the Town Marshal’s Department.
(Ord. 2010-M-041, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 33.07 COLLECTION FEE FOR COMMERCIAL VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (VIN)
CHECKS BY THE TOWN MARSHAL’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The town’s Marshal’s Department is now authorized to collect $5 for
each VIN check performed for commercial purposes.
   (B)   No fee will be collect from private citizens.
   (C)   The fees collected will be added to an inspection fund and will be
used by the Marshal’s Department.
(Ord. 2020-TO-004, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 33.08 CHARGES FOR NON-SUFFICIENT FUNDS FOR CREDIT CARD PURCHASED FOR THE TOWN
WATER UTILITY.
   If a town municipal water and sewer utility customer pays on his or her
account via credit card service and the payment is returned for non-sufficient
or unavailable funds, a charge of $20 shall apply. However in given certain
circumstances the Greenville Water Utility Superintendent is authorized to
waive the charges at his or her discretion.
(Ord. 2020-WO-001, passed 1-13-2020)
FUNDS OF THE TOWN
§ 33.20 CASH RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes a Cash Reserve Fund for transfer
of surplus earnings after all current obligations have been met.
   (B)   The Cash Reserve Fund can transfer balance for Municipal General Fund
only on June 30 of current year in lieu of taxes.
   (C)   In case of emergency the legislative body may, by ordinance, transfer
additional money from the Cash Reserve Fund to the General Fund to provide for
additional appropriations, the transfer to be limited to the accretions to the
Cash Reserve Fund since the preceding June 30.
   (D)   The Cash Reserve Fund, if authorized by ordinance, may make loans to
another utility-owned by the same municipality, for periods not to exceed five
years, at any interest rate. The repayment of the loan and interest shall be
returned to the Cash Reserve Fund.
(Ord. 2018-WO-030, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 33.21 POLICE DEPARTMENT PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes a Petty Cash Fund for the Town
Police Department, in the amount of $100.
   (B)   The custodian of the Petty Cash Fund shall be the Town Chief of
Police, who shall use the funds to obtain small or emergency items of operating
expense. An original receipt shall be provided for each expense made from this
fund in order to gain reimbursement.
   (C)   The custodian of the Petty Cash Fund shall be responsible for
repayment of all expenditures not accompanied by an original receipt.
   (D)   The custodian shall make available all documentation of the Petty Cash
Fund no later than 72 hours upon request by the Town Council or the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 2018-TO-014, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 33.22 SEWER UTILITY DEPOSIT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes a Sewer Utility Deposit Fund for
providing accessibility to customer sewer utility account deposits for refund
upon closing of the account with no outstanding balances.
   (B)   The deposit amount shall be established and can be adjusted by
ordinance.
   (C)   All customer deposit funds shall be kept in a separate fund that will
be under the control of the Town Clerk-Treasurer with access limited to that
authority and supervised by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2021-WW-006, passed 6-14-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER UTILITY ADMINISTRATION
      
52.   WATER UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
      
53.   ACCESS TO THE WATER SUPPLY
      
54.   CONSERVATION/RATIONING OF WATER
      
55.   RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
      
56.   FATS, OILS AND GREASE (FOG)
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Standard operating procedures for water and sewer utility
   
50.02   Water and wastewater infrastructure requests
§ 50.01 STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR WATER AND SEWER UTILITY.
   The town’s standard operating procedures are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 2013-WR-021, passed 4-8-2013; Ord. 2013-WR-039, passed 8-12-2013)
§ 50.02 WATER AND WASTEWATER INFRASTRUCTURE REQUESTS.
   An application process for Greenville's water and wastewater utility, along
with applicable fees and checklist, is hereby adopted. The following procedures
shall be used for all water and wastewater infrastructure requests as follows:
   (A)   Complete the attached application including all required signatures;
   (B)   Submit a digital sketch or map identifying the location of the
property with a north arrow;
   (C)   Submit one digital set of the primary plat and construction drawings
and any support materials identifying all utilities on and adjacent to the
property. Plans should:
      (1)   Be in PDF format;
      (2)   Be stamped by a professional engineer;
      (3)   Show the street location(s) and profiles with the public utility
lines and the proposed utility connections to an existing utility line or stub;
and
      (4)   Include average and peak flow calculations;
   (D)   Any required easements shall be provided to gain access to utility
infrastructure and recorded prior to final approval;
   (E)   Pending review of the proposed plans, Greenville water and/or
wastewater utilities will determine if the application is approved, declined,
or needs further changes or information. Prior to approval, a final invoice
with all required fees will be sent to the applicant. Once payment has been
received, Greenville water and/or wastewater utilities will issue the
application approval;
   (F)   See Greenville water and/or wastewater utilities' Water and Sanitary
Sewer Standards § 1 "General Requirements" for more detailed information; and
   (G)   Upon completion of construction, submit the following additional
completed documents:
      (1)   One complete digital set of as-built drawings in PDF, shapefile
(.shp), and AutoCAD (DWG) file formats;
      (2)   Release of liens;
      (3)   Maintenance bond (if required); and
      (4)   Transfer of ownership.
(Ord. 2022-WO-008, passed 6-6-2022)
CHAPTER 51: WATER UTILITY ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
51.01   Removes water utility from jurisdiction of State Utility Regulatory
Commission for certain approvals
   
51.02   Establishing water utility
   
51.03   Funds to be controlled by licensed brokerage firm
   
51.04   Bids, contracts
   
51.05   Personnel policy for water utility
§ 51.01 REMOVES WATER UTILITY FROM JURISDICTION OF STATE UTILITY REGULATORY
COMMISSION FOR CERTAIN APPROVALS.
   (A)   The town’s water utility be removed from the jurisdiction of the State
Utility Regulatory Commission for approval of rates and charges and of the
issuance of stocks, bonds, notes or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (B)   This section takes effect 60 days after its final adoption; provided,
however, if within this 60-day period, the Town Council receives a petition in
proper form:
      (1)   That is signed by at least 10% or 500 of the registered voters of
the town as determined by the County Election Board, whichever is less; and
      (2)   That requests the Town Council to submit the question of removal
from the jurisdiction to the State Utility Regulatory Commission to a
referendum at the next election.
   (C)   This section will not take effect until and unless removal of the
town’s water utility from the Commission’s jurisdiction for approval of rates
and charges and of the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes or other evidence of
indebtedness is approved by a majority of those voting on the question at an
election.
(Ord. 1994-02, passed 6-7-1994)
§ 51.02 ESTABLISHING WATER UTILITY.
   (A)   The Town Council, pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-3(a)(2), hereby establishes
the town water utility. In support of this section, the Town Council states as
follows.
      (1)   I.C. 36-9-2-14 states that “A unit may regulate the furnishing of
water to the public. A unit also may establish, maintain and operate
waterworks.”
      (2)   I.C. 8-1.5-3-3 states that “The legislative body of a municipality
may, by ordinance, provide for the control of any or all of its municipally
owned utilities by a board consisting of the members of the municipal
legislative body.”
   (B)   The town, in Ord. W-3, adopted a schedule of rates and charges for the
services to be rendered by said waterworks upon the completion of construction
of the same and the beginning of operation of said waterworks as a municipal
utility, which rates and charges must be sufficient to enable the town properly
to operate the waterworks system, provide for depreciation and finance the
construction of said system.
   (C)   Pursuant to §
51.01, the town, on June 7, 1994, adopted an ordinance which states in part:
the town’s water utility be removed from the jurisdiction of the State Utility
Regulatory Commission for approval of rates and charges and of the issuance of
stocks, bonds, notes or other evidence of indebtedness.
(Ord. 2010-T-001, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 51.03 FUNDS TO BE CONTROLLED BY LICENSED BROKERAGE FIRM.
   (A)   The Council of the town is the owner and entity for establishing
legislative authority of the town municipal water utility.
   (B)   The Town Council is the entity for providing benefits for the
employees of the town water utility pursuant I.C. 8-1.5.
   (C)   The town water utility has been asked by the said employees to provide
individual SEP accounts with their choice of brokerage firms/brokers and
pursuant I.C. 8-1.5-3-7
   (D)   The town water utility will relinquish control of those funds to a
licensed brokerage firm of the employee’s choosing.
(Res. 2006-W-69, passed 12-11-2006)
§ 51.04 BIDS, CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNCIL MEMBER. The Town Council member or town water utility member who
is currently serving a term of elected office to the Town Council or Town Water
Utility Council.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS. Husband, wife, domestic partner, significant
other, natural or adopted son, son-in-law, natural or adopted daughter,
daughter-in-law, natural or adoptive father, father-in-law, natural or adoptive
mother, mother-in law, step-father, step-mother, step-son, step-daughter, half-
brother, half- sister, natural or adopted grandson, natural or adopted
granddaughter, natural or adopted brother, natural or adopted sister, natural
or adopted nephew, natural or adopted niece or any companies owned fully or a
percentage owned of that company by anyone listed above.
   (B)   Regulation. It shall be strictly prohibited that any Council member
for the town and town water utility or their immediate family members as
mentioned in the definitions in division (A) above to bid on or enter into a
contract or be employed by a company or companies who bid or enter into a
contract with the town and town water utility. This shall include labor,
materials or purchasing of products for capital improvement projects.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   This regulation does not apply to the full- or part-time employment
by an immediate family member by the town, town water utility or Town Marshal’s
Department.
      (2)   This regulation does not apply to retail merchants offering such
services as vehicle repair and maintenance, office supplies and the like for
the town, town water utility or Town Marshal’s Department.
      (3)   This regulation does not apply to volunteer labor by an immediate
family member where no compensation for such volunteer labor is paid in any
form by the town, town water utility or Town Marshal’s Department.
(Ord. 2010-R-081, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 51.05 PERSONNEL POLICY FOR WATER UTILITY.
   The personnel policy for the water utility, and any and all amendments, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Ord. 2009-R-057, passed 8-10-2009; Res 2016-WO-004, passed 2-8-2016)
CHAPTER 52: WATER UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
52.01   Rates and charges
   
52.02   Service charge
   
52.03   Seasonal accounts
   
52.04   Service runs; NSF policy
§ 52.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The metered rates and charges shall be subject to a wholesale water
cost tracking factor (WCTF) occasioned solely by changes in the cost of
purchasing water for resale from town’s wholesale water providers. WCTF shall
be amended from time to time whenever any of the town’s wholesale water
providers amend their respective wholesale rate to the town water utility. The
WCTF will be based upon the total increase in the cost of purchased water,
adjusted for the cost of water line losses and utility receipts taxes.
   (B)   In accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.1 and after the introduction of this
section at the public hearing on November 11, 2013 at which customers of the
town water utility, owners of property served or to be served by the town water
utility, and other interested persons may be heard concerning the proposed
rates and charges set forth herein. Notice of the hearing shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 et seq. and mailed in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-
3.8.1. After the hearing the Town Water and Sewer Utility Council may at its
next scheduled monthly meeting adopt this section, either as originally
introduced or as modified. A copy of the schedule of rates and charges adopted
herein shall be kept on file and available for public inspection at the offices
of the town municipal water and sewer utility and the Town Municipal Water and
Sewer Utility Clerk-Treasurer office.
   (C)   This section shall be effective the first billing cycle of 2014 after
it is adopted and published in the New Albany Tribune in accordance with I.C.
5-3-1 through I.C. 5-3-1-9 unless delayed in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.2
which allows owners of property connected or to be connected to and served by
the town water utility to file a written petition objecting to the rates and
charges set forth herein so long as:
      (1)   The petition contains the names and addresses of the petitioners;
      (2)   The petitioners attended the public hearing provided under I.C. 8-
1.5-3-8-1;
      (3)   The written petition is filed with the Water and Sewer Utility
Council within five days after this section is adopted pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-
3-8.2; the signature of petitioners must appear on public hearing sign-in
sheet; and
      (4)   The written petition states specifically the ground or grounds of
objection.
   (D)   Schedule of water rates and charges. For the use of the service
rendered by the town water utility, the following rates and charges are based
upon the amount of water supplied by the town water utility.
 
Monthly Minimum Charges*
Monthly Metered Rates (per 1,000 gallons) Base Rate
First 30,000 gallons                      $10.61
Next 30,000 gallons                       $9.09
Over 60,000 gallons                       $8.14
 
Monthly Minimum Charges*
Water Meter Size Gallons Base Rates
Monthly Minimum Charges*
Water Meter Size       Gallons       Base Rates
5/8- or 3/4-inch meter Minimum 2,499 $25.50**
1-inch meter           10,000        $106.10
1-1/2 inch meter       27,000        $286.47
2-inch meter           46,000        $463.74
3-inch meter           150,200       $1,325.23
*Subject to a wholesale water cost tracking factor (WCTF). The WCTF is
occasioned solely by changes in the cost of purchasing water from the town
water utility wholesale water suppliers. The WCTF may be revised from time to
time, based upon changes in the cost of purchasing water for resale from the
town water utility suppliers. The changes in wholesaler water cost to the
town water utility, including adjustments for line losses and utility
receipts tax, may be adjusted automatically by the town water utility.
**Excludes the tracking factor of $0.41 included in the base rate for the
first 30,000 gallons.
Fire Protection
Fire Protection Rate per Annum
Fire Protection
Fire Protection          Rate per Annum
Automatic sprinklers
    1-inch connection$9.30
   1-1/4 inch connecti$13.94
   1-1/2-inch connecti$21.38
   2-inch connection  $37.17
   3-inch connection  $83.63
   4-inch connection  $148.69
   6-inch connection  $334.53
   8-inch connection  $590.08
Hydrant rental
Home                     $2.91 per month
Business                 $2.91 per month
Private hydrants         $263.24
 
Connection Deposits and Rental Charges
Meter deposit                              $100
Meter fee home and business                $1 per month
5/8- or 3/4-inch meter                     $900
Larger than 3/4-inch                       Actual cost
Reconnection charge where service has been $50 plus any water usage amounts due
disconnected due to nonpayment
New Connection Capacity Cost Surcharge
New Connection Capacity Cost Surcharge
5/8- or 3/4-inch meter $1,000
1-inch meter           $2,000
1-1/2-inch meter       $3,000
2-inch meter           $4,000
3-inch meter           $6,000
4-inch meter           $8,000
5-inch meter           $10,000
6-inch meter           $12,000
 
   (E)   Non-sufficient fund check charges: $20.
(Ord. 2013-W-051, passed 11-11-2013; Ord. 2016-WO-014, passed 4-11-2016; Ord.
2022-WO-011, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 52.02 SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   This section authorizes a 3% service charge to recover administrative
and office expenses to do the monthly billing.
   (B)   This shall be paid in a monthly charge after the amounts have been
calculated and the water utility is transferring funds held for Town Heritage
Springs Sewer Utility account.
(Ord. 2015-WO-025, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 52.03 SEASONAL ACCOUNTS.
   This section shall establish the category of seasonal accounts. Such
accounts will be charged a $500 deposit fee to insure the company against these
greater risks. Arrangements may be made to balance payments of the deposit
through the year at the request of the customer and agreement of the water
company after demonstration that risk is minimal. Additionally, should such
high-use customers default on bill payment, the deposit fee will be forfeited
to cover the initial costs of defaulted payment and a new deposit shall be
required before the account is reopened, only after satisfaction of overdue
fees and interest.
(Ord. 2004-W-36, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 52.04 SERVICE RUNS; NSF POLICY.
   (A)    Fees are as follows.
      (1)   Service run: $35. This will be charged for any dispatch at a
customer's request, provided the cause is not deemed to be the utility's
responsibility. This covers the administrative management and maintenance costs
associated with these requests.
      (2)   Emergency/after-hours service runs: $15. Normal business hours are
8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. This fee will be charged for any
service runs after-hours dispatch at a customer's request, provided the cause
is not deemed to be the utility's responsibility. This covers the
administrative management and maintenance costs associated with these requests.
      (3)   New account initialization: $35. This covers the administrative and
maintenance expenses for generating a new account and obtaining the initial
read/connecting service to start a new account. This would be a nonrefundable
charge along with the member deposit.
      (4)   Water member deposit: $150. Currently the minimum water bill for
three months is $94.86. The average water bill is $65/month. According to the
town policy, the customer can avoid disconnection for two and one-half months.
This can easily exceed the current $100 membership fee and leave an unrecovered
negative balance.
      (5)   Sewer member deposit: $100. The minimum combined bill in Heritage
Springs Subdivision is $96.62. While the town has limited bad debt in Heritage
Springs, this can almost deplete the town's $100 water deposit in one month. At
the two and one-half month mark, the town's exposure is $289.86 due to the
sewer charges.
      (6)   Most new service installation: $2,000 for a short service, $2,200
for a long service (five-eighths by three-fourths meter only). A short service
is a location where the main is on the same side of the road as the final
location of the meter. A long service is a location where the main is on the
opposite side of the road of the final location of the meter. These costs are
higher due to extra equipment and materials and potential asphalt repair.
         (a)   New service sized above a five-eighths by three-fourths meter
will be the actual cost of installation and no less than a standard five-
eighths by three-fourths meter installation cost.
         (b)   New services that incur extraordinary costs will be charged the
actual cost of installation regardless of meter size.
         (c)   Reconnection fee: $50. (Fee unchanged.)
         (d)   Backflow test registration: $35. Cross-connection and backflow
prevention is a required program per Indiana Department of Environmental
Management. Every backflow prevention device must be tested every year per
those requirements. Greenville has partnered with BSI Online to manage the
customer notification and report retention. Each report filed with BSI will be
charged an administrative fee of $35. Twenty dollars less 5% per registration
will be refunded to the Greenville water utility to cover expenses.
      (7)   Hydrant meter rental. At times, a customer or contractor requests
the use of a hydrant to fill a pool or a tank. These can present a cross-
connection hazard and a loss of water if not handled properly. We have hydrant
meters in two sizes: two and one-half inch meter with a check valve and a five-
eighths by three-fourths meter. The two and one-half inch meter rental fee is
$200 deposit plus $10 per day or $50 per seven days, whichever is less
expensive. The five-eighths by three-fourths meter rental fee is $50 deposit
plus $5 per day or $25 per 7 days, whichever is less expensive. At the end of
the rental the water usage will be calculated at the current rate for 1,000
gallons and will be billed accordingly.
   (B)   Non-sufficient fund check.
      (1)   If a Greenville water utility customer pays their account to
prevent water service disconnection with a check that is returned because of
NSF, it shall be considered as non-payment of account. Water service shall be
disconnected and a reconnection fee and their account shall be paid in full
before water service can be reconnected.
      (2)   If the water disconnection was created by a water leak that has
caused an unusually high charge, a repayment agreement may be proposed by the
Greenville Water Superintendent to the Greenville Water Utility Council for
approval to prevent service disconnection.
(Ord. 2020-W-015, passed 10-12-2020; Ord. 2022-WO-009, passed 6-6-2022)
CHAPTER 53: ACCESS TO THE WATER SUPPLY
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Regulation and operation
   
53.04   Territorial application
   
53.05   Jurisdiction
   
53.06   Enforcement
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for access to the
town water utility water supply; the use of water meters; to eliminate illegal
access to the town water utility water supply by not using proper metering
devices owned by the town water utility; and to prohibit the tampering with the
town water utility water system.
(Ord. 2011-WO-017, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUMPER. Any device or system used or intended to supply water from the town
water utility water supply to any structure, person or entity without the use
of a proper metering device.
   PROPER METERING DEVICES. Equipment owned by the town water utility to
measure the water passing through or out of the town water utility water
supply.
   TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEM. To turn any portion of the town water utility
system on or off or otherwise change or damage it.
   TOWN WATER UTILITY. Water utility owned by the Town of Greenville, Floyd
County, Indiana.
   TOWN WATER UTILITY WATER SYSTEM. All pipes, lines, joints, tanks, hydrants,
wells, water treatment plant and all related parts used to supply public water
to users.
   WATER SUPPLY. The water in any part of the town water utility water system.
(Ord. 2011-WO-017, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 53.03 REGULATION AND OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall install or cause to be installed any jumper for the
purpose of accessing water from the town water utility water supply that
results in access to water supply without passing through an operating proper
metering device.
   (B)   No person shall, without authority from the town water utility, turn
on or off any portion of the town water utility water system or otherwise
change or damage the town water utility water system.
   (C)   Upon discovery of a jumper or any form of tampering with the town
water utility water system, the Town Marshal’s Department shall be notified and
shall issue a citation for violation of this chapter to the person or entity
who has caused such violation and to the owner of the property where the
violation occurred.
   (D)   The owner of the property where the violation of this chapter occurred
shall be responsible for any and all fines, penalties and damages resulting
from the violation.
(Ord. 2011-WO-017, passed 3-14-2011) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 TERRITORIAL APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to the entire town water utility water system both
inside and outside of the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 2011-WO-017, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 53.05 JURISDICTION.
   The County Superior Court shall have jurisdiction for the enforcement of
this chapter and the determination of any and all penalties and damages.
(Ord. 2011-WO-017, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 53.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2, I.C. 36-1-6-
3, I.C. 36-1-6-4 or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2011-WO-017, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be fined not less than $100
or more than $300 for the first offense, plus attorney fees and court cost. For
the second and all subsequent offenses, the fine shall be not less than $250 or
more than $1,000 for each offense, plus attorney fees and court cost. A
separate offense shall be committed for each parcel of real estate owned by the
owner on which a violation occurs.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided for in division (A) above, any
person violating this chapter may also be required to pay all damages to the
town water utility as a result of said violation and for the value of the water
used as a result of such violation.
   (C)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be sought
against the person or the person’s responsible real estate in accordance with
I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor statute, if said statute is repealed. The town may
cause to be certified to the County Auditor as a charge against the taxes due
and payable to the County Treasurer in the following year together with
attorney fees and court cost.
   (D)   The town water utility and the town may pursue any and all penalties
described in I.C. 36-1-6-3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-
6-4, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
   (E)   Any portion of any prior ordinance in conflict with the provisions of
this chapter is hereby repealed.
   (F)   Any unlawful provision found in this chapter shall not affect the
remaining provision.
(Ord. 2011-WO-017, passed 3-14-2011)
CHAPTER 54: CONSERVATION/RATIONING OF WATER
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Application of chapter
   
54.03   Levels of conservation
   
54.04   Declaration of need for water conservation
   
54.05   Notice
   
54.06   Level 1: voluntary conservation
   
54.07   Level 2: prohibited use
   
54.08   Level 3: rationing
   
54.09   Exceptions
   
54.10   Enforcement
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number, the word “shall” is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Greenville, Indiana.
   MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM. The Greenville water utility.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent in charge of the utilities
daily operations under the directions of the town water utility and Town
Council.
   TOWN. The Town of Greenville, Indiana.
   USER. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization in whose name the town water utility maintains water service.
   WATER. Water from the Greenville Water Utility System.
(Ord. 2010-W-066, passed 10-25-2010)
§ 54.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to persons now or hereafter
connected to the town water utility system.
(Ord. 2010-W-066, passed 10-25-2010)
§ 54.03 LEVELS OF CONSERVATION.
   Levels of conservation:
   (A)   Level 1: voluntary conservation;
   (B)   Level 2: prohibited use; and
   (C)   Level 3: rationing.
(Ord. 2010-W-066, passed 10-25-2010)
§ 54.04 DECLARATION OF NEED FOR WATER CONSERVATION.
   Upon determining that the town water utility system is in imminent danger of
a shortage of water or is experiencing a shortage of water, is unable to
maintain adequate water pressure in the system, the water demands of the system
exceed the ability to service those demands, major malfunctions or breakdown of
equipment have occurred or other circumstances, have caused an actual or
imminent danger to the water supply and the Superintendent so declares. No
level of conservation shall remain in effect more than 120 days without the
consent of the town water utility and Town Council.
(Ord. 2010-W-066, passed 10-25-2010)
§ 54.05 NOTICE.
   Notice of Level 1 shall be by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation within the town and in the county and may also be by such other
means as the Superintendent may deem appropriate. Notice of Level 2 and Level 3
shall be by First Class United States mail or other door-to-door distribution
to the current address of users of the town water utility systems as then
maintained by the town water utility. Notice of Level 1 shall be effective upon
publication. Notice of Level 2 and Level 3 shall be deemed effective at noon of
the third day after depositing same in the United States mail or the conclusion
of door-to-door distribution, whichever is sooner.
(Ord. 2010-W-066, passed 10-25-2010)
§ 54.06 LEVEL 1: VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   Level 1: voluntary conservation shall be comprised of the following:
   (A)   Requesting that the users engage in a conscious effort to reduce water
consumption by practicing such voluntary water conservation techniques as will
be helpful in managing of the then existing water shortage or crisis;
   (B)   Suggesting reasonable and meaningful actions that users can take which
will be beneficial to the alleviation of the then existing water shortage or
crisis; and
   (C)   In the case of voluntary conservation, users of water may also be
requested to voluntarily cease one or more of the following water uses:
      (1)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigation of shrubbery, trees, lawns,
grass, ground covers, plants, vines, garden, vegetables or any other
vegetation;
      (2)   Washing of vehicles of any type, trailers, trailer houses (mobile
homes), houses, railroad cars or any other type of mobile equipment;
      (3)   Cleaning of outdoor surfaces such as sidewalks, driveways, filling
station aprons, porches and other outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment;
      (5)   Operation or ornamental fountains;
      (6)   Adding water to or filling swimming pools and wading pools;
      (7)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing; and/or
      (8)   Other nonessential uses of water as determined by the
Superintendent
(Ord. 2010-W-066, passed 10-25-2010)
§ 54.07 LEVEL 2: PROHIBITED USE.
   Prohibited use shall be comprised of the following.
   (A)   Users of water shall be prohibited from the water uses listed in §
54.06(C)(1) through (C)(8).
   (B)   Any user found violating any prohibited use shall be served by the
Superintendent with a written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit of not less than three days for the
satisfactory correction thereof. Offenders shall within the period of time
stated in such notice permanently cease all violations.
   (C)   Any user who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for shall be notified and the town water utility will install a device
in the meter which shall provide for a flow of three gallons per minute at 40
psi at the cost of the user. This device shall remain installed until such time
as the Superintendent determines that the facilities have the capability of
sustaining the water demand required. Tampering with the device will subject
the user to the discontinuance of water service.
(Ord. 2010-W-066, passed 10-25-2010) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08 LEVEL 3: RATIONING.
   Rationing shall be comprised of the following.
   (A)   Each residential user’s consumption shall be limited to not more than
175 gallons of water per day.
   (B)   Apartment buildings or apartment of multi-family complexes with a
single water meter shall be limited to a total consumption not to exceed 175
gallons of water per day per dwelling unit.
   (C)   Business, commercial and industrial users shall be limited to 65% of
the volume of water used during the corresponding month of the water used
during the corresponding month of the preceding year. Business, commercial or
industrial users that were not in business and operating and connected to the
municipal water system more than one year prior to the declaration of Level 3:
rationing shall be restricted to 65% of the average monthly volume of water
used during the number of months such business, commercial or industrial user
was in business and operating and connected to the municipal water system.
   (D)   Water uses listed in §
54.06(C)(1) through (C)(8) shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Water users who exceed the above volume limitations shall be subject
to a fine of $500.
   (F)   In addition to the other penalties and provisions provided herein,
users of water violating this section shall be subject to immediate termination
of water service by the town water utility.
(Ord. 2010-W-066, passed 10-25-2010) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.09 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following shall not be subject to the limitations imposed by §
54.08:
   (A)   Health care providers;
   (B)   The Superintendent shall have the authority to permit a reasonable use
of water in any case necessary to maintain adequate health and sanitation
standards; and
   (C)   The provisions of §
54.08 shall not apply to those businesses and industries declared by resolution
of the Council to be necessary for the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2010-W-066, passed 10-25-2010)
§ 54.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every employee of the town water utility shall, in connection with his
or her duties, diligently report for enforcement the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall have the authority to enforce the provisions
of this chapter by the discontinuance of water service to any user or users in
the event of violation of this chapter. If disconnection of water service is
necessary, the town water utility employee shall be accompanied by a Town
Marshal’s Department member if within the corporate limits of the town. If
service to be disconnected is located outside the corporate limits of the town,
the employee shall be accompanied by a member of the County Sheriff’s
Department.
   (C)   Upon declaring a water conservation emergency, the Superintendent,
depending upon the circumstances then existing, may invoke standards and
restrictions less stringent than those established by §§
54.07 and
54.08.
   (D)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-1, I.C.
36-1-6-2, I.C. 36-1-6-3 or I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor statute if said
statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-W-066, passed 10-25-2010) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be sought
against the person or the person’s responsible real estate with attorney fees
and court cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2.
   (B)   The town and the town water utility may pursue any and all penalties
described in I.C. 36-1-6-3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-
6-4, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
   (C)   The town and the town water utility shall give all persons holding a
substantial interest in any real property, which is not in compliance with this
chapter ten days’ written notice to pay levied fines. Such notice may be in
person by any member of the Town Marshal’s Department, or by mailing it by
registered or certified mail with return receipt requested.
   (D)   Furthermore, if the levied fines have not been paid within 30 days
after the aforesaid ten-day notice period, the town and the town water utility
may cause to be certified to the County Auditor as a charge against the taxes
due and payable to the County Treasurer in the following year together with
attorney fees and court cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor
statute, if said statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-W-066, passed 10-25-2010)
CHAPTER 55: RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL ON-SITE
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Section
   
55.01   Applicability and administration
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Health hazard declared
   
55.04   Right of entry
   
55.05   Prohibited acts
   
55.06   Residential permits
   
55.07   Commercial permits
   
55.08   Permit denial
   
55.09   Permit revocation or modification
   
55.10   Licenses
   
55.11   Orders of the Health Officer and Board
   
55.12   Petition for review
   
55.13   Enforcement
   
55.14   Miscellaneous provisions
§ 55.01 APPLICABILITY AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply within the incorporated limits of the town
and, except as may be otherwise expressly set forth herein, shall apply only to
those dwellings and commercial facilities which are not presently served by or
will not be connected to a sanitary sewerage system. The applicability of this
chapter to commercial on-site wastewater disposal facilities is expressly
limited to those for which the County Health Department shall have jurisdiction
to issue construction permits.
   (B)    The administration and enforcement of this chapter is vested in the
County Health Board appointed pursuant to state law, the County Health Officer
appointed pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-16, and the County Health Department created
and established pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-2.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL FACILITY. Any structure or place intended for human
occupation, use or commerce, other than a dwelling, including such facilities
as apartment buildings, campgrounds, churches, commercial establishments,
condominiums, medical facilities, mobile home parks, motels, office buildings,
restaurants and schools.
      COMMERCIAL ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITY. All equipment and
devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment and on-
site disposal of wastewater from other than one- or two-family dwellings.
      COMMERCIAL RULE 410. State Department of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-10 et
seq., effective as of the date of this chapter, as thereafter amended and
supplemented.
      DEPARTMENT. The Floyd County Health Department, being an agency of local
government, created and acting pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-20 et seq.
and its duly authorized employees and representatives.
      DWELLING. Any house or structure or place used or intended to be used as
a place of seasonal or permanent human habitation or for sleeping for one or
two families. The term RESIDENCE shall be used interchangeably with the term
DWELLING.
      HEALTH BOARD. The Floyd County Board of Health duly constituted and
acting pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-20 et seq., and its duly
authorized representatives.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The Floyd County Health Officer duly appointed by the
Floyd County Board of Health and acting pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-
20 et seq., and his or her duly authorized representatives.
      OWNER. The holder of fee simple title to a dwelling or commercial
facility, or the holder of equitable title thereto in the event that the
contract creating such equitable title confers exclusive possession of and the
obligation to maintain the dwelling or commercial facility, or the agent of
either.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, copartnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society, holding company, trustee , school corporation,
school city, school town, school district, any unit of government or any other
legal entity, or their successors or assigns, or agent of the aforesaid.
      RESIDENTIAL RULE 410. State Department of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 et
seq. effective as of the date of this chapter, as thereafter amended and
supplemented.
      RESIDENTIAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. All equipment and devices necessary
for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment and on-site disposal of
sewage from a one- or two- family dwelling.
      SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A sewer or system of sewers which convey sewage
away from the lot on which it originates to a wastewater treatment facility
owned and operated by an incorporated city or town, conservancy district,
regional sewer district or private utility.
      SEWAGE. All water-carried waste derived from ordinary living processes.
The term WASTEWATER shall be used interchangeably with the term SEWAGE.
   (B)   The definitions set forth in this chapter, together with those found
in Residential Rule 410, Commercial Rule 410 and State Department of Health
Bulletin S.E. 13, shall be used in the application, interpretation and
enforcement of this chapter, and each definition shall be deemed to apply
equally to a residential sewage disposal system or commercial on-site
wastewater disposal facility, unless the application of a word, term or phrase
only to a particular system, facility or rule is clearly indicated.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 55.03 HEALTH HAZARD DECLARED.
   (A)   A failed residential sewage disposal system or failed commercial on-
site wastewater disposal facility is hereby declared to be a health hazard and
nuisance.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, a sewage disposal system or facility
shall be deemed to have failed when:
      (1)   The system refuses to accept sewage at a rate of design application
thereby interfering with the normal use of plumbing fixtures;
      (2)   Effluent discharge exceeds the absorptive capacity of the soil,
resulting in ponding, seepage or other discharge of the effluent to the ground
or surface waters; or
      (3)   Effluent is discharged from the system or facility causing
contamination of a potable water supply, ground water or surface waters.
   (C)   With respect to a failed sewage disposal system, the Health Board
shall issue such orders, pursuant to §
55.11, as it shall deem necessary and appropriate for the abatement of the
resulting health hazard, subject only to the express limitations set forth in
Residential Rule 410.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 55.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Health Board, the Health Officer and the duly authorized
representatives of each, may enter upon public or private property at
reasonable times and upon presentation of credentials to inspect facilities,
equipment or records, investigate allegations, determine soil characteristics,
conduct tests or collect samples for the purpose of obtaining information
necessary to the issuance of a permit pursuant to this chapter, Residential
Rule 410 or Commercial Rule 410, or to determine whether any person is subject
to, or in violation of this chapter or said Rules or any permit or license
issued pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Except in an emergency declared by the Health Officer or Health Board,
due notice of an intent to enter a residential or commercial building shall be
given.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 55.05 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall throw, run, drain, seep or otherwise dispose into any
of the surface waters or ground waters of the county, or cause, permit or
suffer to be thrown, run, drained, allowed to seep or otherwise dispose into
such waters, any organic or inorganic matter from a dwelling or commercial
facility or from a residential sewage disposal system or commercial on-site
wastewater disposal facility that would cause or contribute to a health hazard
or water pollution.
   (B)   No person shall commence or allow the construction of a dwelling, or
placement of a mobile home, or the construction of a commercial facility
without first having obtained a written permit for the construction of a sewage
disposal system.
   (C)   No person shall commence or allow the replacement, reconstruction,
expansion or remodeling of a residence which may increase the number of
bedrooms without first having obtained a written permit for the addition to,
replacement or alteration of the existing residential sewage disposal system.
   (D)   No person shall cause or allow a change in occupancy or use of any
facility served by a commercial on-site wastewater disposal facility if such
change would result in wastewater flow on the peak day in excess of the
permitted capacity of the disposal facility, or if it would result in
wastewater being generated of a type incompatible with absorption field
disposal, without first having obtained a construction permit for appropriate
modifications of the subject wastewater disposal facility.
   (E)   No person shall cause or allow the construction of any outbuilding or
the installation of any swimming pool, geothermal heat system, underground
utility connection, or underground lawn sprinkler system in association with an
existing residence or commercial facility without first obtaining a site
approval permit for such construction.
   (F)   No person shall construct, install, replace, alter, modify, repair or
add to a residential sewage disposal system and no owner shall knowingly suffer
or allow any such system to be installed, replaced, altered, modified, repaired
or added to except in accordance with the duly issued construction permit, the
terms and provisions of Residential Rule 410, and this chapter.
   (G)   No person shall construct, install, replace, alter, modify, repair or
add to a commercial on-site wastewater disposal facility, and no owner shall
knowingly suffer or allow any such facility to be installed, replaced, altered,
modified, repaired or added to except in accordance with the duly issued
construction permit, the terms and provisions, of Commercial Rule 410 and/or
State Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 13, and this chapter.
   (H)   No person shall construct or install or thereafter replace, alter,
modify or repair a residential sewage disposal system without first having been
issued a license pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   No person shall construct or install or thereafter replace, alter,
modify or repair a commercial on-site wastewater disposal facility, over which
the County Health Department has jurisdiction for the issuance of a
construction permit, without first having been issued a license pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (J)   No person, having received a written order from the Health Officer or
the Health Board pertaining to a violation of this chapter or the terms,
provisions, conditions or limitations of any permit or license issued
hereunder, shall fail or refuse to comply with the terms and provisions of such
order within the time limit specified therein.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.06 RESIDENTIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Applications for permits for the construction, installation,
replacement, alteration, repair of or addition to, a residential sewage
disposal system shall be submitted by the owner or agent of the owner upon
forms provided by the Department, shall contain such information as is required
by Residential Rule 410 and/or deemed necessary by the Health Officer, and
shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee payable to the Department, as such
fee may be established from time to time by Town Council.
   (B)   Construction permits for residential sewage disposal systems shall be
issued by the Health Officer only upon a determination that the proposed
system, or the alteration, repair of or addition to an existing system,
complies with the requirements, terms and provisions of Residential Rule 410,
this chapter, and the following.
      (1)   The terms and provisions of Residential Rule 410 and State
Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 11 to the contrary, notwithstanding, permits
for the construction or installation of permanent privies, to include sanitary
vault privies and compost toilets, shall not be issued.
      (2)   The terms and provisions of Residential Rule 410 to the contrary
notwithstanding, no septic tank having a capacity of fewer than 1,000 gallons,
and no soil absorption system containing less than 400 lineal feet of pipe
shall be installed.
      (3)   The Health Officer may specify in the construction permit any
limitation, term or condition necessary to provide a functional, easily
operated, enduring residential sewage disposal system in accordance with
Residential Rule 410, or to prevent a health hazard, nuisance, surface water
pollution or groundwater pollution.
      (4)   Subsurface gravity feed residential sewage disposal systems for
duplex dwellings shall be separate for each dwelling unit. For design systems,
the absorption area shall be computed using the following formula for area:
150g x 1 + no. of bedrooms and bedroom equivalents
loading rate in gpd/sq. ft.
      (5)   A construction permit shall expire on the last day of the thirty-
sixth month following the month of permit issuance, unless the applicant has
commenced the activity for which the permit was issued on or before the date of
permit expiration; provided, a permit issued pursuant to this section shall be
deemed amended and supplemented to include the terms, conditions and
requirements of this chapter, and any amendments thereof, effective as of the
date of commencement of such activity.
   (C)   Site approval permits for the construction of any outbuilding or the
installation of any swimming pool, geothermal heat system, underground utility
connection or underground lawn sprinkler system shall be issued upon:
      (1)   Proper application of the owner or the agent of the owner on forms
furnished by the Department;
      (2)   The payment of the fee established by the Town Council, from time
to time; and
      (3)   A determination by the Health Officer that the proposed location of
such construction or installation conforms with Residential Rule 410, and shall
not damage the residential sewage disposal system or interfere with its proper
operation.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997; Ord. 2010-T-019, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 55.07 COMMERCIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Applications for permits for the construction, installation,
replacement, alteration, repair of or addition to a commercial on-site
wastewater disposal facility shall be upon forms provided by the State
Department of Health and shall be submitted to such State Department as
permitted and required by Commercial Rule 410. In the event that the State
Department of Health shall determine that the County Health Department shall
have jurisdiction over the review of such application and the issuance of a
construction permit, the owner or agent of the owner will be advised by letter.
   (B)   Construction permits for commercial on-site wastewater disposal
facilities over which the Department has jurisdiction shall be issued in
accordance with this chapter, Commercial Rule 410 and State Department of
Health Bulletin S.E. 13; provided, that references in said Rule and Bulletin to
the “Board” or “State Board of Health” shall be interpreted to mean the County
Board of Health, and references therein to the “Commissioner” shall be
interpreted to mean the County Health Officer.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 55.08 PERMIT DENIAL.
   (A)   An application for a construction permit for a residential sewage
disposal system may be denied by the Health Officer for the following causes:
      (1)   Any misrepresentation made in the application;
      (2)   Failure of the owner or the agent of the owner to respond to a
request for information from the Health Officer within 30 days of receiving
such request;
      (3)   A sanitary sewerage system of adequate capacity is available for
connection at a construction cost estimated by the Health Officer not to exceed
150% of the cost estimated by the Health Officer for installing a residential
sewage disposal system; or
      (4)   Failure to show that the residential sewage disposal system can be
constructed, operated, maintained or abandoned in compliance with Residential
Rule 410.
   (B)   If a permit is denied by the Health Officer, the applicant shall be
given notice in writing, which notice shall set forth the basis for denial and
the fact that a petition for review may be filed in accordance with §
55.12.
   (C)   Denial of a permit for the construction of a commercial on-site
wastewater disposal facility shall be as permitted by Commercial Rule 410.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 55.09 PERMIT REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION.
   (A)   A construction permit for a residential sewage disposal system may be
revoked or modified by the Health Board for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Violation of Residential Rule 410 or this chapter;
      (2)   Violation of any limitation, term or condition contained in the
construction permit; or
      (3)   Failure to disclose all facts relevant to the construction and use
of the disposal system, or any misrepresentation contained in the application
for a construction permit.
   (B)   If a permit is modified or revoked by the Health Board, the permittee
shall be given notice in writing, which notice shall set forth the basis for
the modification or revocation and the fact that a petition for review may be
filed in accordance with §
55.12.
   (C)   A construction permit for a commercial on-site wastewater disposal
system may be revoked or modified by the Health Board for a violation of this
chapter or as otherwise permitted by Commercial Rule 410.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 55.10 LICENSES.
   (A)   Applications for a license to construct, install, replace, alter,
modify or repair a residential sewage disposal system or commercial on-site
wastewater disposal facility shall be submitted upon forms provided by the
Department and shall be accompanied by the fee established by the Town Council,
from time to time. The application shall disclose the type of license
requested, namely, residential, commercial or combination.
   (B)   (1)   No license shall be issued by the Department unless the
applicant has demonstrated a working knowledge of the laws, rules and
regulations pertaining to the type of system for which a license is to be
issued, namely:
         (a)   Residential Rule 410 and this chapter for a residential license;
         (b)   Commercial Rule 410 State Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 13,
and this chapter for a commercial license; or
         (c)   Residential Rule 410, Commercial Rule 410, Bulletin S.E. 13 and
this chapter for a combination license.
      (2)   Minimum required knowledge shall be demonstrated by a score of at
least 82% on a standardized written proficiency examination to be administered
by the Department; provided, that in the event that the reading or language
skills of the applicant would preclude the use of a written examination, an
oral exam may be given by the Department, and further provided, that if the
applicant is not a natural person, the examination shall be administered to a
designated representative who shall be an officer, partner, official or
employee of the applicant.
   (C)   The following terms and conditions shall apply to a license and the
issuance thereof under this section.
      (1)   A license shall expire on the anniversary of its issuance.
      (2)   If a license is continually renewed, re-examination shall not be
required.
      (3)   Opportunity for re-examination shall be afforded persons failing to
pass the license exam, but no more frequently than once every 30 days.
      (4)   The standardized examination may be revised by the Department, from
time to time, and more than one comparable version may be administered.
      (5)   A list of those persons holding a valid license under this section
may be made available to the public.
      (6)   A licensee may be required by the Health Officer to attend one
educational class or program annually pertaining to sewage disposal to be
conducted by the Department or the State Department of Health.
   (D)   A license issued under this section may be suspended or revoked if the
licensee shall be found by the Health Officer to have committed any act
prohibited by §
55.05, any act that might result in the denial or revocation of a construction
permit issued hereunder, or violated any term or provision of this chapter, to
include Residential Rule 410, Commercial Rule 410 and State Department of
Health Bulletin S.E. 13, pertaining to the system or facility for which the
license was issued. Notice of suspension or revocation shall be in writing,
shall specify the acts or violations committed, and shall be served upon the
licensee as permitted by §
55.11(A).
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 55.11 ORDERS OF THE HEALTH OFFICER AND BOARD.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating this chapter to include the terms,
conditions, provisions and limitations of any permit or license issued
hereunder, may be served by the Health Officer with a written notice and order
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. A written notice and order under this
section shall be served upon the person to whom directed by personal delivery,
certified mail or otherwise as a summons may be served under the State Rules of
Civil Procedure.
   (B)   Any person failing to comply with the written order of the Health
Officer or the Health Board issued under this section shall, by such failure,
violate §
55.05(J), which violation shall be separate from and in addition to any
violation giving rise to or prompting the issuance of such written order.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 55.12 PETITION FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   Within 30 days following the date of:
      (1)   Receipt of an issued permit, notice of permit denial, notice of
permit modification or notice of permit revocation pertaining to a residential
sewage disposal system;
      (2)   Issuance or denial of a site approval permit; or
      (3)   Issuance, denial or revocation of a license, or within 15 days of
the receipt of an order of the Health Officer or Health Board issued pursuant
to §
55.11, any person aggrieved by such action may file a petition for review with
the Health Board. A petition for review shall:
         (a)   State the name and address of the person making the request
(petitioner);
         (b)   Identify the interest of the petitioner which is affected by the
action complained of;
         (c)   Identify any persons whom the petitioner represents;
         (d)   State with particularity the reason(s) for the request; and
         (e)   Set forth the relief requested.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a timely petition for review, the Health Board shall,
at its next scheduled regular meeting, or at an earlier special meeting to be
called, conduct a hearing into the matters addressed by the petition, and shall
take such action thereon, if any, as it shall deem necessary and appropriate.
Upon the mutual agreement of the petitioner and the Health Board, the hearing
may be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in I.C. 4-21.5 et
seq., being the Administrative Procedure and Orders Act.
   (C)   A petition for review with respect to an issued permit, permit
modification, notice of permit denial or notice of permit revocation for a
commercial on-site wastewater disposal facility shall be in accordance with
Commercial Rule 410.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 55.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter as against a person violating the terms
and provisions of same shall be in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 34-7.
An action to enforce this chapter shall be brought in the name of the Health
Officer or the Health Board, as appropriate, and upon proof by a preponderance
of the evidence of a violation hereof, judgment shall be entered against the
defendant for a sum of not less than $100 for each violation. A separate
violation of this chapter shall be deemed to occur for each day that a person
shall be in violation of the terms and provisions hereof. No action under this
section shall be commenced, however, with respect to a violation for which a
petition for review is pending under §
55.12.
   (B)   In addition to the remedy set forth in division (A) above, an action
may be brought for mandatory or injunctive relief as against any person
violating the terms and provisions of this chapter, which action shall be
brought in the name of the Health Officer or Health Board, as appropriate, but
only after notice of violation has been given as permitted by §
55.11(A). Except in an emergency expressly declared by the Health Board, no
action under this section shall be commenced with respect to a violation for
which a petition for review is pending under §
55.12.
   (C)   To the extent permitted by law and this chapter, an action under
division (A) above may be joined with an action under division (B) above, and
to any judgment in favor of the Health Officer and/or Health Board shall be
added costs of the action, reasonable attorney fees and expenses incurred by
the Department in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   In all actions under this section, the Health Board and/or the Health
Officer shall be represented by the attorney retained by the Health Board
pursuant to I.C. 16-20-1-1.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 55.14 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Unless and until State Board of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 is
amended to include an express provision pertaining to the proper abandonment of
septic, tanks, holding tanks, drywells or sanitary vault privies, any owner who
shall discontinue use of a septic tank, holding tank, drywell or sanitary vault
privy shall cause same to be pumped by a licensed septic tank hauler and shall
either:
      (1)   Remove the structure from the ground; or
      (2)   Open and fill same with sand or clean fill in a manner approved by
the Health Officer.
   (B)   State Board of Health Rules 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 and 410 6-10, together
with Bulletin S.E. 13, as each such rule and bulletin may be amended and
supplemented from time to time, are incorporated herein by reference and made a
part of this chapter. To the extent that these rules may be found to be
inconsistent with one another or with Bulletin S.E. 13, Rule I.A.C. 6-8.1 shall
be deemed to apply only to residential sewage disposal systems and Rule I.A.C.
6-10 and Bulletin S.E. 13 only to commercial on-site wastewater disposal
facilities. Any inconsistency between said rules and bulletin and this chapter
shall be resolved against this chapter unless the inconsistent provision hereof
is more restrictive than the provision of the rules or bulletin.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
CHAPTER 56: FATS, OIL AND GREASE (FOG)
Section
   
56.01   Short title and purpose
   
56.02   Definitions
   
56.03   Abbreviations
   
56.04   General conditions
   
56.05   Registration of and general provisions for food service establishments
   
56.06   Prohibitions and limitations
   
56.07   FOG pretreatment
   
56.08   Enforcement
§ 56.01 SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be known as the “FOG Ordinance” and
may be cited as such.
   (B)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to establish uniform
requirements for FSEs that discharge to the WWTP and enable the town to comply
with applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act, being
33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and the general pretreatment regulations. This
chapter further establishes a regulatory scheme to:
      (1)   Provide standards for the types of grease capturing equipment that
must be installed by FSEs;
      (2)   Provide for the effective long-term use of grease capturing
equipment through related operational requirements and prohibitions, and
periodic inspections;
      (3)   Increase opportunities for recovering from wastewater discharge
lines both food solids (which can be composted) and waste grease (which can be
recycled);
      (4)   Prevent the uncontrolled introduction of FOG into the WWTP that
will interfere with its operation;
      (5)   Aid in preventing sewer blockages and obstructions from
contributions and accumulation of FOG in the WWTP;
      (6)   Facilitate town compliance with applicable federal and state laws
regarding WWTP operations;
      (7)   Comply with the town’s NPDES permit conditions; and
      (8)   Authorize the town, the utility, the Superintendent and their duly
authorized representatives to administer and enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 56.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water
Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Region 5 Administrator of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency or delegated designee thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT (FSE). The
following:
      (1)   If the FSE is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more operating facilities, provided the
manager is authorized to make management decisions that govern the operation of
the regulated facility, including having the explicit or implicit duty of
making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and direct other
comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental compliance with
environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are
established or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for
individual FOG registration requirements; and where authority to sign documents
has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate
procedures.
      (2)   If the FSE is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the FSE is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above, may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the Director.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). A schedule of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the pollution of waters of the state. For purposes of this chapter, BEST
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES include procedures and practices that reduce the discharge
of FOG to the building sewer and to the WWTP.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the plumbing that is the lowest horizontal
piping within a building or house that conducts wastewater or storm water to a
sewer lateral.
   BYPASS. An intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a food
service establishment’s grease control device.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer designed and constructed to convey sanitary
wastewaters (domestic, commercial or industrial wastewaters) and storm water
through a single pipe system to the wastewater treatment plant (WWTP).
   COMMERCIAL USER. A source of wastewater discharging to the WWTP from
business establishments including, but not limited to, stores, markets, office
buildings, FSEs, shopping centers and which is not an industrial user.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Water Utility Board of the Town of Greenville. It is
the governing body of the WWTP.
   DESIGNATED FACILITY CONTACT. A person whose position is responsible for day
to day activities and operation of the FSE.
   DIRECTOR or SUPERINTENDENT. The person responsible for supervising the
operation of the WWTP, or that person’s duly authorized representative.
   DISCHARGE. The pouring forth, emission or release of pollutants or
wastewater from any source.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   EFFLUENT LIMITATION. Any restriction established by the Control Authority or
the approval authority on quantities, discharge rates and concentrations of
pollutants that are discharged from point sources into the WWTP or waters of
the state.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. A food service establishment that is not a new source.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASE (FOG). A group of substances including hydrocarbons,
fatty acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other materials that are extracted
by a solvent from an acidified sample that are not volatilized during the
laboratory test procedures. This includes both polar (animal or vegetable in
origin) and non-polar (total petroleum hydrocarbons) substances. Oils and
greases are more specifically defined by the standard method used for their
determination.
   FOG CONTROL DEVICE. Any grease interceptor, grease trap or other mechanism,
device or process, which attaches to, or is applied to, wastewater plumbing
fixtures and lines, the purpose of which is to trap or collect FOG prior to it
being discharged into the WWTP.
   FOG CONTROL PROGRAM. The program established by the town’s pretreatment
program under the authority granted by the ordinance.
   FOG REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE (CERTIFICATE). The certificate issued by the
town certifying that all prerequisites defined in this chapter are satisfied at
the time of issuance and the FSE may commence discharging to the sewer as such.
   FOOD GRINDER. Any device installed in the plumbing or sewage system for the
purpose of grinding food waste or food preparation by-products for the purpose
of disposing it in the sewer system.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT (FSE). An operation or enterprise that stores,
prepares, packages, serves, vends or otherwise provides food for human
consumption. Such facilities may include, but are not limited to, those that
process meat or other food ingredients as an intermediate step or for final
human consumption, food service operations in a summer camp, residential
substance abuse treatment facility, halfway house, correctional facility,
school, restaurant, commercial kitchen, caterer, church, hotel, bar, hospital,
prison, care institution or similar facility.
   GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample or group of samples collected over a
period of time not exceeding 15 minutes.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR.  A device located underground and outside a food service
facility designed to collect, contain or remove food wastes and grease from the
waste stream while allowing the balance of the liquid waste to discharge to the
WWTP system by gravity.
   GREASE TRAP. A device located inside a food service facility or under a sink
designed to collect, contain or remove food wastes and grease from the waste
stream while allowing the balance of the liquid waste to discharge to the WWTP
by gravity.
   INSPECTOR. A person authorized by the Superintendent to perform inspection
and monitoring duties to determine compliance with this chapter.
   INDIANA PLUMBING CODE. The current version of 675 I.A.C. 16.
   MANIFEST. The receipt which is retained by the generator of wastes for
disposing recyclable wastes or liquid wastes as required by the Control
Authority.
   MAY. That the act referred to is both permissible and approved.
   NPDES PERMIT. The national pollutant discharge elimination system permit now
or hereafter held by the town which sets forth conditions for the discharge of
any pollutants or combinations of pollutants.
   NUISANCE. Any substance which is injurious to health, offensive to the
senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with
the comfort or enjoyment of life or property.
   POLLUTANT. Includes, but is not limited to, any of the following discharged
into water: FOG, dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, wastewater, garbage, sludge, munitions, chemical wastes,
toxic wastes, hazardous substances, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal and agricultural waste.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into the WWTP. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes or any combination thereof, by
process changes, or by other means, except dilution.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (WWTP). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) owned in this instance by the town. This
definition includes any sewers, pipes and other conveyances conveying
wastewater to the WWTP treatment plant. The term does not include pipes, sewers
or other conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment or
storage. For the purposes of this chapter, WWTP shall also include any sewers,
pipes or other conveyances that convey wastewater to the WWTP from persons
outside the town who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users of the
town’s WWTP, The term also means the municipality, as defined in § 502(4) of
the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1362(b), which has jurisdiction over the discharges
to and the direct discharges from such a treatment works.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer designed to convey liquid and water-carried wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions and
to which storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally allowed to
enter.
   SANITARY WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried waste from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, institutions and other places that is
transported by sewers and is primarily composed of human and household waste.
SANITARY WASTEWATER, as received by the WWTP, may contain a component of
industrial waste.
   SETTLEABLE SOLIDS. The portion of the suspended solids which are of
sufficient size and weight to settle in a given period of time, usually one
hour.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit, which carries wastewater, storm water or drainage
water.
   SEWER LATERAL. The horizontal piping that extends from the end of the
building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal. SEWER LATERALS
are not part of the WWTP.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STANDARD METHODS. An assembly of analytical techniques and descriptions
commonly accepted in water and wastewater treatment as listed in 40 C.F.R. §
136 and contained in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association,
American Water Works Association and the Water Environment Federation.
   SURVEILLANCE. The ongoing systematic collection and analysis of data.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids, which either float on the surface or are suspended
in water, wastewater or other liquids, and which are removable by laboratory
filtration.
   TOWN. The Town of Greenville, Indiana.
   TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the WWTP designed to provide treatment to
wastewater.
   TWENTY-FIVE PERCENT RULE. A requirement for FOG control devices to be
maintained such that the combined FOG and solids accumulation does not exceed
25% of the design hydraulic depth of the grease trap or interceptor. This is to
ensure that the minimum hydraulic retention time and required available
hydraulic volume is maintained to effectively intercept and retain FOG from
discharging to the sewer system.
   UTILITY. The Town of Greenville’s wastewater utility.
   WASTE. Sanitary wastewater and any and all other waste substances, liquid,
solid, gaseous or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human or
animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing or industrial
operation of whatever nature, including such waste placed within containers of
whatever nature prior to, and for purposes of, disposal.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid or water-carried wastes from residential, commercial,
industrial, municipal, agricultural or other sources.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 56.03 ABBREVIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BMP. Best Management Practices.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   FOG. Fats, oils and grease.
   FOG. Food service establishment.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   IDEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   WWTP. Wastewater treatment plant.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 56.04 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Bylaws and regulations of the Control Authority. The Control Authority
may adopt and enforce such reasonable regulations not in conflict herewith as
it may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of
the WWTP.
   (B)   Administrative orders. The Control Authority or its designated
representative may issue orders necessary to any FSE to achieve and maintain
compliance with the requirements and provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Enforcement response plan. The enforcement response plan adopted by
the Control Authority shall be used when responding to incidents of FSE
noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Fines and penalties. The Control Authority shall have the authority to
assess fines and penalties as stated in this chapter and Enforcement Response
Plan’s Penalty Matrix.
   (E)   Confidential information.
      (1)   Information and data on an FSE obtained from reports,
questionnaires, applications, monitoring programs and inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the FSE specifically requests in writing and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Director that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets or confidential information pursuant to federal or state law.
Wastewater quantities and wastewater constituents and characteristics will not
be recognized as confidential information.
      (2)   The portions of a report which disclose trade secrets or
confidential information shall be made available upon written request to
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES permit or the
pretreatment program. Such portions of a report shall be available for use by
the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report.
      (3)   Notwithstanding anything in division (E)(2) above, information
accepted, in writing, by the Director as confidential, shall not be transmitted
to any governmental agency except EPA or to the general public by the Director
without user’s written permission (327 I.A.C. 12.1).
      (4)   The EPA shall have immediate and unlimited access to all
information compiled as part of the pretreatment program, including
confidential documents.
   (F)   Access to premises and right to inspect. Authorized representatives of
the town shall have the right to enter upon the premises of an FSE at all
reasonable times.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 56.05 REGISTRATION OF AND GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   No FSE shall discharge, or cause to be discharged any wastewater from an FSE
directly or indirectly into the sewer system without first registering with the
town.
   (A)   Registration process. All FSEs shall complete, sign and submit to the
Superintendent a FOG registration certificate (certificate) application on the
form provided by the Superintendent, accompanied by the appropriate fees as
listed in the wastewater utility rate ordinance.
      (1)   Application information. All FSEs are required to register their
establishments with the town. The certificate application shall be completed
and filed with the town prior to commencing or continuing discharges or food
preparation activities. The applicable fees shall accompany the submission of
the application. The applicant shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluation, the following information at a minimum:
         (a)   FSE, name, physical and business address, telephone number, name
and contact information for the authorized representative of FSE and a
designated facility contact;
         (b)   Date of construction of any building, structure, facility or
installation that is discharging or may discharge pollutants to the WWTP;
         (c)   Facility information, including, but not limited to:
            1.   Types of kitchen equipment utilized;
            2.   Number of meals served or products created;
            3.   Seating capacity;
            4.   Hours of operation;
            5.   Description of FSE operation;
            6.   Cuisine (menu); and
            7.   Service activities or clients using the applicant’s services.
         (d)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections, FOG control devices or other
pretreatment equipment and appurtenances by size and location and a current
water use schematic;
         (e)   Name, address and telephone number of property owner or lessor
and the property manager where the FSE is located; and
         (f)   Any other information as specified in the application form.
      (2)   Certificate application submission time frames.
         (a)   New source FSEs shall submit complete certificate applications
with associated fees and documents to the town no less than 30 calendar days
prior to commencing food preparation activities.
         (b)   Existing source FSEs shall submit complete certificate
applications with associated fees and documents within 90 calendar days of the
effective date of this chapter.
      (3)   Signatories to certificate applications. All certificate
applications shall be signed by the authorized representative of the FSE.
      (4)   Application review and approval.
         (a)   After submission of the certificate application the town will
review the application and will schedule an initial inspection with the FSE.
         (b)   After initial inspection the FSE will receive notification of
its category and applicable requirements outlined in this chapter.
         (c)   The certificate will be issued once compliance with this chapter
has been verified by final inspection.
      (5)   Certificate duration.
         (a)   Certificates must be renewed every three years.
         (b)   Renewal applications must be submitted 180 calendar days prior
to the expiration of the current Certificate.
      (6)   Non-transferability of certificates.
         (a)   Certificates issued under this chapter are for a specific food
service establishment, for a specific operation and create no vested rights.
         (b)   No registered holder shall assign, transfer or sell any
certificate issued under this chapter.
      (7)   Continuation of expired certificate. An expired certificate will
continue to be effective and enforceable until the certificate is reissued if:
         (a)   The FSE has submitted a complete certificate application at
least 180 days prior to the expiration date of the FSE’s existing certificate;
and
         (b)   The failure to reissue the certificate, prior to expiration of
the previous certificate, is not due to any act or failure to act on the part
of the FSE.
   (B)   Transfers of ownership and remodeling. All FSEs shall notify the
Director when ownership of the FSE changes or any remodeling or improvements
are undertaken.
      (1)   Transfer of ownership. Transfer of ownership will render the
current certificate null and void. The new owner shall complete a new
application describing any changes that could affect the FOG discharge category
(see § 56.07(B)) that was assigned to the establishment under its previous
ownership. The new owner shall notify the utility within 15 calendar days after
taking ownership.
      (2)   Remodeling.
         (a)   Existing FSEs proposing remodeling shall be required to notify
the Utility within 15 calendar days prior to the commencement of the work.
         (b)   Any existing entity that expands or renovates its operations to
include an FSE shall be required to notify the utility within 15 calendar days
prior to the commencement of the work.
   (C)   Best management practices. All FSEs shall implement best management
practices in its operation to minimize the discharge of FOG to the sewer
system. Detailed requirements for best management practices can be found in the
FOG registration packet. This may include kitchen practices and employee
training that is essential to minimize FOG discharge.
   (D)   Proper disposal or recycling. All FSEs shall properly store and
recycle or dispose of FOG diverted from their liquid sanitary wastewater in
accordance with all laws and regulations applicable to such storage, recycling
and disposal.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 56.06 PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   The following prohibitions shall apply to all FSEs:
   (A)   Discharging wastewater exceeding the effluent limitation of 200 mg/
l of total fats, oils and grease into the town’s sewer system;
   (B)   Installation of food grinder(s) in the plumbing system of newly
constructed FSEs. Any existing FSE having a food grinder in place before the
effective date of this chapter may remain in place until kitchen renovations
are made;
   (C)   Introduction of any additives into an FSE’s wastewater system for the
purpose of emulsifying FOG or biologically/chemically treating FOG for grease
remediation or as a supplement to FOG control device maintenance;
   (D)   Disposal of FOG into any internal or external drain. All FOG shall be
collected and stored properly in receptacles such as barrels or drums for
recycling or disposal;
   (E)   Discharge of water with temperatures in excess of 140°F to any FOG
control device;
   (F)   Discharge of sanitary wastewater from toilets, urinals and other
fixtures containing wastes to sewer lines connected to the FOG control device;
   (G)   Discharge of FOG to toilets, urinals, wash basins and other fixtures
intended for sanitary waste is prohibited;
   (H)   Discharge of any waste including FOG and solid materials removed from
the FOG control device to the sewer system, is prohibited. FOG removed from FOG
control devices shall be hauled for recycling or disposal periodically as part
of the operation and maintenance requirements for FOG control devices;
   (I)   Operation of FOG control device with FOG and solids accumulation
exceeding 25% of the total operating depth of the FOG control device (25%
rule); and
   (J)   Discharge of any waste including FOG and solid materials removed from
floor mats and kitchen appliances directly to the WWTP.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 56.07 FOG PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Categories of food service establishments. Based on information
provided in the certificate application and the facility’s records for water
consumption at that location, the Director or a designee shall assign the
applicant a category of A, B or C.
      (1)   An applicant shall be given the designated points in the following
categories:
         (a)   Operating hours per week:
            1.   100 hours or more - 5 points;
            2.   Between 50 and 99 hours - 4 points;
            3.   Between 25 and 49 hours - 3 points;
            4.   Between 15 and 24 hours - 2 points; and
            5.   Less than 15 hours -1 point.
         (b)   Monthly flow by cubic feet:
            1.   8,021 cubic feet or more - 5 points;
            2.   Between 6,684 and 8,020 cubic feet - 4 points;
            3.   Between 5,348 and 6,683 cubic feet - 3 points;
            4.   Between 4,011 and 5,347 cubic feet - 2 points; and
            5.   Less than 4,011 cubic feet -1 point.
         (c)   Seating capacity:
            1.   150 seats or more - 5 points;
            2.   Between 75 and 149 seats - 4 points;
            3.   Between 50 and 74 seats - 3 points;
            4.   Between 25 and 49 seats - 2 points; and
            5.   Less than 25 seats - 1 point.
         (d)   Serving practices:
            1.   Full kitchen and serves food on dishes that are washed on site
- 5 points;
            2.   Full kitchen and serves food on disposable dishes or dishes
that are not washed on site - 4 points;
            3.   Prepares prepackaged food and serves food on dishes that are
washed on site - 3 points;
            4.   Prepares prepackaged food and serves food on disposable dishes
- 2 points; and
            5.   Limited use kitchen - carry-in for prep and clean-up - 1
point.
         (e)   Deep fryer used as part of daily food preparation - 5 points;
         (f)   Deep fryer present, but not part of daily food preparation - 2
points;
         (g)   Facility has commercial dishwasher - 4 points;
         (h)   Facility has three bay or prep sink - 5 points;
         (i)   Facility has food grinder - 5 points;
         (j)   Facility has mop sink - 3 points;
         (k)   Facility has floor drains - 3 points; and
         (l)   Facility has a drive-through, drive-in or carry-out service - 1
point.
      (2)   An applicant will be assigned a category based on the following
point totals.
         (a)   An applicant receiving 24 or more points will be assigned to
Category A.
         (b)   An applicant receiving 6 points to 23 points will be assigned to
Category B.
         (c)   An applicant receiving less than 6 points will be assigned to
Category C.
   (B)   Category requirements.
      (1)   Category A. Any applicant for a certificate who is designated as
Category A must install a grease interceptor that captures flows from all floor
drains, mop sinks and three bay sinks and other kitchen fixtures. The size of
the grease interceptor shall be the larger of 1,000 gallons or determined using
the formula outlined in the State Department of Health Code (410 I.A.C. 6-10.1-
66). If the Category A applicant is an existing FSE and has an established
grease removal technology, the FSE may apply for a variance. If for any other
reason, a new applicant cannot meet the FOG control device requirements
established in this chapter, they may apply for a variance.
      (2)   Category B.
         (a)   Any applicant for a certificate who is designated as Category B
must install grease traps that capture flow from, at minimum, all kitchen sinks
and fixtures. The minimum size of the grease trap shall be determined using the
current State Plumbing Code.
         (b)   If the Category B applicant is an existing FSE and has an
established grease removal technology, the FSE may apply for a variance. If for
any other reason, a new applicant cannot meet the FOG control device sizing
requirements established in current State Plumbing Code, they may apply for a
variance.
      (3)   Category C. Any applicant for a certificate who is designated as
Category C shall not be required to install a FOG control device. If at any
time, the applicant is unable to meet the requirements established in this
chapter, the installation of a FOG control device may be required by the
Director.
   (C)   Maintenance of FOG pretreatment systems. The FOG pretreatment system
shall be maintained in satisfactory and effective operation at the FSE’s
expense. The FOG control device shall be regularly pumped, cleaned and
maintained. The maintenance schedule shall be set to keep the FOG control
device in good working order and to minimize the introduction of FOG into the
WWTP. Maintenance and disposal records shall be maintained onsite and available
for inspection for a minimum of three years.
      (1)   FOG that has accumulated in a FOG control device shall not be
allowed to pass into any sewer lateral, the WWTP or public right-of-way during
maintenance activities.
      (2)   All material (including accumulated FOG, floating materials,
sludge/solids and other materials) removed and hauled from FOG control devices
shall be disposed in accordance with federal, state and local laws at a FOG
disposal facility approved by the Control Authority or the State Department of
Environmental Management, or, if taken out of state, approved by a similar
state agency.
      (3)   FSEs are required to obtain and maintain a copy of the waste
hauler’s documentation which must include:
         (a)   Name and address of hauling company;
         (b)   Name and signature of operator performing the maintenance;
         (c)   Documentation of full pump-out with volume of water and FOG
removed (e.g., 1,000 gallons);
         (d)   Documentation of the level of floating FOG and settlable solids
(to determine if volume exceeds 25% capacity of grease removal equipment);
         (e)   Documentation if repairs to the grease interceptor are required
or performed; and
         (f)   Identification of the facility where the waste hauler will
dispose of the waste.
   (D)   Monitoring.
      (1)   Control manhole requirements. All users who own, operate or
maintain an FSE connected to the WWTP who make a new connection or modify an
existing connection to the WWTP shall install a control manhole unless, due to
space limitations, the Superintendent determines that a control manhole is not
required.
      (2)   Visual monitoring. The Superintendent may conduct visual monitoring
at the sole expense of the FSE to observe the actual conditions of the FSE’s
sewer lateral or downstream sewer.
      (3)   Effluent monitoring may be conducted and rates and charges outlined
in the wastewater utility rates and charges ordinance.
   (E)   Reporting.
      (1)   All FSEs shall submit documentation of maintenance of all FOG
control devices upon request.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require periodic reporting regarding best
management practices, in accordance with the FOG Control Program.
      (3)   Other reports may be required such as compliance schedule progress
reports and any other reports deemed reasonably appropriate by the Director.
   (F)   Record-keeping. FSEs shall be required to keep all manifests, receipts
and invoices of all cleaning, records of maintenance, FOG removal from the
grease control device, disposal carrier and disposal site location onsite for
no less than three years.
   (G)   Variance from FOG control device requirements.
      (1)   A new Category A FSE in an existing building or an existing
Category A FSE may obtain a variance from the grease interceptor requirement to
allow alternative pretreatment technology. Additionally, a new Category B FSE
may obtain a variance from the grease trap sizing requirements to allow for the
installation of a grease trap that is smaller than the requirements in the
current State Plumbing Code. The FSE must demonstrate that it is impossible or
impractical to install, operate or maintain a grease interceptor or grease trap
of the size specified in the current State Plumbing Code by doing the
following:
         (a)   The FSE shall be able to justify that the alternative
pretreatment technology is equivalent or better than required FOG control
device by meeting the 200 mg/l total FOG effluent limitation and shall install
a control manhole; and
         (b)   Alternatively, if the installation of a monitoring manhole is
not possible, the FSE shall demonstrate its effectiveness to control FOG
discharge through downstream visual monitoring of the sewer system conducted by
the utility, for at least three months, at the FSEs expense. A variance may be
granted if the monitoring results show less than or equal to 200 mg/l total FOG
or no visible accumulation of FOG in its sewer lateral and downstream sewer
lines.
      (2)   An existing FSE that has established grease removal technology may
continue to use the existing FOG control device if it meets the following
requirements:
         (a)   The FSE shall be able to justify that the alternative
pretreatment technology is equivalent or better by meeting the 200 mg/l total
FOG effluent limitation and shall install a control manhole.
         (b)   Alternatively, if the installation of a control manhole is not
possible, the FSE shall demonstrate its effectiveness to control FOG discharge
through downstream visual monitoring of the sewer system, for at least three
months, at its own expense. A variance may be granted if the monitoring results
show less than or equal to 200 mg/l total FOG or no visible accumulation of FOG
in its lateral and downstream sewer lines.
      (3)   An FSE may submit an application for variance from the FOG control
device requirements to the Director. Upon determination by the Director that
reasons are sufficient to justify a variance, the certificate will be issued or
revised to include the variance.
      (4)   An FSE that applies for a variance, but is not granted a variance
may appeal, in writing, to the Control Authority.
      (5)   A variance shall contain terms and conditions that serve as basis
for its issuance. A variance may be revoked at any time when any of the terms
and conditions for its issuance are not satisfied or if the conditions upon
which the variance was based change so that the justification for the variance
no longer exists. The variance shall be valid until the expiration date
specified in the certificate so long as the FSE remains in compliance with the
terms and conditions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 56.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Grease mitigation. Any FSE who discharges any waste which causes or
contributes to any sewer blockage or overflow, obstruction, interference,
damage or any other impairment to the WWTP or to the operation of those
facilities shall be liable for all costs required to clean or repair the
facilities together with expenses incurred by the town to resume normal
operations.
   (B)   Penalties. Any FSE who is found to have:
      (1)   Violated the effluent limitation set forth in this chapter;
      (2)   Caused the WWTP to violate any effluent limitation in the WWTP’s
permit;
      (3)   Caused or contributed to obstructions or blockages in the sewer
system;
      (4)   Non-effluent limit violations under this chapter or any orders,
rules and regulations issued hereunder;
      (5)   Made any false statement, representation or certification in any
application, record, report, plan or other document filed or required to be
maintained pursuant to this chapter; and
      (6)   Falsified, tampered with or rendered inaccurate any monitoring
device or method required under this chapter, shall be fined no more than
$2,500 for each offense. Each day on which a violation occurs or continues may
be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Determination of fines and penalties. A list of all applicable fines
shall be found in the Utility’s Enforcement Response Plan. In addition to the
penalties provided herein, the utility may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees,
court costs, court reporters’ fees and other expenses of litigation by
appropriate suit at law against the person found to have violated this chapter
or the orders, rules and regulations issued hereunder.
   (D)   Revocation of the FOG registration certificate. Any FSE who violates
the conditions of this chapter is subject to having its certificate revoked.
Additionally if a discharge of wastewater causes or threatens to cause a
condition of contamination, pollution or nuisance the certificate may be
revoked. The certificate may also be terminated for the following, but not
limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure of the FSE to report changes in operations;
      (2)   Refusal of reasonable access to the FSEs premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring;
      (3)   Falsifying reports;
      (4)   Refusing to allow timely access to the facility premises and
records;
      (5)   Repeated failure to meet effluent limitation;
      (6)   Causing or contributing to repeated obstruction and blockages of
the sewer system;
      (7)   Failure to pay fines and penalties; and
      (8)   Failure to meet compliance schedules.
   (E)   Administrative enforcement. If the Director discovers an FSE is in
violation of this chapter or any orders, rules and regulations issued
hereunder, the Director shall have the authority to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 1997-T-04, passed 11-11-1997)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   BLOCKING OF STREETS, REGULATIONS FOR ALLEYS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Cutting through parking lots to avoid traffic backups
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Authority of Town Attorney to prosecute
   
70.04   Administration and enforcement
   
70.05   Operation generally
   
70.06   Speed regulations
   
70.07   Parking generally
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 CUTTING THROUGH PARKING LOTS TO AVOID TRAFFIC BACKUPS.
   (A)   It shall be deemed a traffic violation by the Town Council and
enforceable by the Town Marshal’s Department to operate a motorized vehicle of
any type across any parking lots, sidewalks or curbs to avoid traffic back-up
at any roadway or roadway intersection within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Exemptions from this section:
      (1)   Lawn tractor equipment; and
      (2)   When being directed to do so by a Town Marshal or Auxiliary
Department member in the case of an accident or natural disaster.
(Ord. 2010-M-031, passed 8-31-2010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever
any words or phrases used herein are not defined in any ordinance of the town,
but are defined in the state's vehicle laws, the definitions shall be deemed to
apply to the words or phrases.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation of curb and property lines at intersections or any other portion
of roadway indicated by markings for pedestrian crossing.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral
curblines or, if none, then of the lateral boundary lines of two or more
streets which join one another at an angle, whether or not one of the streets
crosses the other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS. All signals given and all signs,
markings and devices other than signals not inconsistent with this chapter
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction
for the purpose of guiding, directing, warning or regulating traffic.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a roadway, other than temporarily
for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading or in
obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or signals.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street between the regularly-established curblines
or improved and intended to be used for vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curblines and the adjacent
property lines.
   STREET. Every way set apart for public travel, except footpaths.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances using any street for the purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device by which any person or property is or may be
transported upon a public highway, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails.
(Ord. 2021-TO-015, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 70.03 AUTHORITY OF TOWN ATTORNEY TO PROSECUTE.
   The Town Attorney is authorized to serve as municipal prosecutor in the
courts of the county for the purpose of prosecuting any violation of this
title.
(Ord. 2021-TO-015, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 70.04 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Marshal Department to enforce the traffic
regulations as described herein, to make arrests for traffic violations,
enforce all street and traffic laws of the town and all laws of the state
applicable to street traffic within the town, investigate accidents and carry
out the duties specifically imposed by this chapter and the traffic ordinances
of the town.
(Ord. 2021-TO-015, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 70.05 OPERATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Unlawful to disobey official signs and markings. Any person who
operates a vehicle in violation of any official sign or signal shall be subject
to the penalty described in § 70.99 unless such violation occurred at the
direction of a police or fire officer.
   (B)   Traffic-control signal legend. When appropriate traffic control
signals are installed at an intersection, the operator of a vehicle entering
the intersection shall obey the signal displayed as the driver approaches the
intersection except when directed by an officer to do otherwise. The operator
of a vehicle entering an intersection controlled by a flashing signal shall
obey the signal displayed as the driver approaches the intersection. Failure to
obey the signal shall be subject to fines as stated in §
70.99.
   (C)   Following emergency vehicles. Any person who operates a vehicle closer
than 200 feet behind any emergency vehicle traveling in response to an
emergency shall be subject to the penalty described in §
70.99.
   (D)   Driving on sidewalk area. Any person who drives or parks any motor
vehicle on or within any sidewalk area shall be subject to the penalty
described in §
70.99, unless directed to do so by a police or fire officer.
(Ord. 2021-TO-015, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 70.06 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Speed limits. Any person who operates a motor vehicle within the
town’s jurisdiction in excess of the posted speed limits shall be subject to
the penalty described in §
70.99.
   (B)   Adoption of I.C. 9-21-5. The Town of Greenville hereby adopts I.C. 9-
21-5 by reference.
(Ord. 2021-TO-015, passed 12-13-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Specific speed limits, see
Ch. 72, Sch. I
§ 70.07 PARKING GENERALLY.
   (A)   Owner’s responsibility for illegal parking. No person shall knowingly
allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in his or her name to stand or
park or occupy more than one designated and marked parking space in any street
in the town in violation of any ordinances of the city relating to the standing
or parking of vehicles.
   (B)   Manner of parking. It shall be unlawful for the operator to park a
vehicle other than parallel with the curb and headed in the direction of
traffic. The curb side wheels shall be within 12 inches of the edge of the
roadway on any streets or parts of streets, except as designated.
   (C)   Parking within an intersection. It shall be unlawful for the operator
to park a vehicle within an intersection.
   (D)   Parking on a crosswalk. It shall be unlawful for the operator to park
a vehicle on a crosswalk.
   (E)   Parking from curblines and property lines. It shall be unlawful for
the operator to park a vehicle within 15 feet from the intersection of
curblines, or, if none, within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines,
except alleys.
   (F)   Parking in front of fire hydrant. It shall be unlawful for the
operator to park a vehicle within ten feet of a fire hydrant.
   (G)   Parking when prohibited for temporary reasons. It shall be unlawful
for the operator to park a vehicle at any place where an official sign
prohibits parking for temporary emergency reasons.
   (H)   Parking of vehicles that are not self-propelled. No person shall park
any boat, boat trailer, trailer of any kind or any other vehicle that is not
self-propelled upon any of the streets, alleys or rights-of-way within the
city.
   (I)   Overnight parking. It shall be unlawful to leave any motor vehicle
parked on the public streets of the town for a period in excess of 24 hours or
to park any motor vehicle which is held for sale or one which is not in running
condition on the public streets of the city in excess of 24 hours.
   (J)   Prohibited parking areas.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the
following places:
            1.   On a sidewalk;
            2.   In front of, or otherwise blocking access to, a public or
private drive;
            3.   Within an intersection;
            4.   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
            5.   On a crosswalk;
            6.   On a tree lawn, the space between the street curb and the
sidewalk;
            7.   In a yard visable from a public street, other than a
designated driveway; and
            8.   Any public roads in the Heritage Springs Subdivision,
including but not limited to Heritage Way, Frontier Trail, Pioneer Lane, Wagon
Trail, Patriot Place, Conestoga Court and Freedom Court.
         (b)   The following exceptions apply:
            1.   When necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic;
            2.   When providing for the passage of an emergency vehicle, in
compliance with the law; and
            3.   At the direction of a police officer or traffic control
device.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to park any of the following vehicles on any
public street or public right-of-way in the city:
         (a)   Truck tractors, road tractors, truck trailers, semi-trailers or
any other commercial vehicle; and
         (b)   Any vehicle with declared gross weight over 26,000 pounds or
exceeding 25 feet in length.
      (3)   (a)   It shall be unlawful to leave, park or stand any of the
following vehicles on any public street or any public right-of-way, in any area
of the city zoned as a residential district or where the primary use is
residential: mobile homes, motor homes, travel trailers, boat trailers, stock
trailers or any other type of trailer.
         (b)   The following exceptions apply:
            1.   Recreational vehicles owned by an out-of-town guest of a
residential property owner may be parked in front of that owner’s property for
a period not to exceed five days, providing the parking does not impair the
regular flow of traffic or does not violate any other ordinance.
            2.   A property owner may park a trailer (not a semi-trailer) in
front of property owned by such person for a period not to exceed 24 hours for
a maximum of 72 hours in a year, providing that such parking does not impair
the regular flow of traffic.
            3.   This section shall not apply to street construction,
maintenance and repair equipment used by public service utility companies
engaged in repairing or extending public service utilities and to motor buses
when taking on or discharging passengers at customary bus stops.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, a DRIVEWAY shall be defined as a
private road giving access from a public way to a building on abutting grounds.
      (5)   Only authorized and constructed curb cuts and driveways permitted
by the city shall be used for ingress and egress. Driving, parking or stopping
across the curb, tree lawn or sidewalk is not permitted.
      (6)   The Marshal Department shall enforce this section.
(Ord. 2021-TO-015, passed 12-13-2021; Ord. 2023-TO-015, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    A traffic citation fine of $50 shall be issued by the Town Marshal’s
Department for any individual in violation of §
70.01.
   (B)   A person who violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty has not been provided shall be fined a minimum of $5 and not more than
the maximum of $500.
   (C)   The Judge of the Floyd County Court Superior Court is authorized to
waive any minimum fee or penalty provided in this chapter if, in his or her
discretion, the Judge believes the waiver to be fair and in the interests of
justice.
   (D)   A violation of §
70.05(C) shall be subject to a fine of no more than $500 for a first offense
and no more than $1,000 for each subsequent offense.
   (E)   Speeding fines.
      (1)   Any violation of §
70.06(A) shall be subject to the following fines:
 
Miles Over Posted Speed Limit Fine
1 - 15                        $25 plus court costs (as set and amended by the
                              courts and the State of Indiana
15 - 20                       $50 plus court costs (as set and amended by the
                              courts and the State of Indiana)
21 - 25                       $75 plus court costs (as set and amended by the
                              courts and the State of Indiana)
Over 25                       $100 plus court costs (as set and amended by the
                              courts and the State of Indiana)
 
      (2)   Any conviction associated with the above-referenced sections shall
be reported to the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (F)   Moving violation fines.
      (1)   Any violation of §
70.05(A), (B), or (D) shall be subject to the following fines: $50 plus court
costs as set and amended by the State of Indiana and the courts.
      (2)   Any conviction associated with the above-referenced sections shall
be reported to the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (G)   Parking fines.
Type of Fine Section of Code Amount
Type of Fine                                    Section of Code Amount
Blocking driveway                                              $25
Parking on sidewalk                                            $25
Amount of fine if not paid after 30 days                       $100
Manner of parking                               §              $25
                                                70.07(B)
Owner's responsibility for illegal parking      §              $100
                                                70.07(A)
Parking within an intersection                  §              $100
                                                70.07(C)
Parking on a crosswalk                          §              $25
                                                70.07(D)
Parking from curblines and property lines       §              $25
                                                70.07(E)
Parking in front of fire hydrant                §              $100
                                                70.07(F)
Parking when prohibited for temporary reasons   §              $25
                                                70.07(G)
Parking of vehicles that are not self-propelled §              $25
                                                70.07(H)
Overnight parking                               §              $100
                                                70.07(I)
Parking prohibited                              §              $25
                                                70.07(J)
The owner of a vehicle for which a violation has been issued shall be subject
to a penalty of up to a maximum of $100 per offense if not paid within 30
days from the date of the violation.
 
   (H)   Any vehicle parked on a public roadway in violation of any section of
this chapter is subject to towing at the violator’s expense.
(Ord. 2010-M-030, passed 8-16-2010; Ord. 2010-M-031, passed 8-31-2010; Ord.
2013-MO-060, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 2021-TO-015, passed 12-13-2021; Ord. 2023-
TO-015, passed 8-14-2023)
CHAPTER 71: BLOCKING OF STREETS, REGULATIONS FOR ALLEYS
Section
   
71.01   Blocking streets, roadways and alleyways
   
71.02   Exceptions
   
71.03   Alleyways; right-of-way; speed
   
71.04   Enforcement
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 BLOCKING STREETS, ROADWAYS AND ALLEYWAYS.
   (A)    Blocking or obstructing any streets, roadways and alleyways within
the corporate limits of the town is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   This includes any items such as vehicles, trash, building materials,
any devices intended to impede the flow or speed of traffic and the like.
(Ord. 2010-T-049, passed 8-16-2010; Ord. 2023-TO-014, passed 8-14-2023)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A reasonable amount of time will be allowed for loading and unloading
from vehicles.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to emergency or utility vehicles, to
include the delivery of fuel oil or bottle gas and the like.
   (C)   In case of a vehicle breakdown, the Town Marshal is to be notified of
the breakdown and vehicle location. A reasonable amount of time per the
discretion of the Town Marshal will be given for the removal of such vehicle. A
reasonable period of time shall normally be 24 hours unless circumstances in
the sole discretion of the Town Marshal indicates otherwise.
(Ord. 2010-T-049, passed 8-16-2010) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 ALLEYWAYS; RIGHT-OF-WAY; SPEED.
   The posted speed limits for all alleyways and right-of-way rules:
   (A)   The maximum posted speed limit for all alleyways is to be ten mph; and
   (B)   All alleyways are to yield the right-of-way to traffic on main streets
and U.S. 150 within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 2010-T-049, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 71.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-3 or I.C. 36-1-
6-4, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-T-049, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the case of a vehicle blocking a street, roadway or alleyway a
parking citation shall be issued by the Town Marshal’s Department.
   (B)   In the case of a first offense, a warning ticket only is to be issued.
After the first offense, a parking ticket will be issued from the Town
Marshal’s Department. This fee will be $75, plus court cost and attorney fees.
These fines apply to vehicles only.
   (C)   In the case that a vehicle must be removed by the Town Marshal’s
Department, the owner of such vehicles will be responsible for any and all
towing and storage fees as well as any parking fines imposed plus court cost
and attorney fees.
   (D)   In the case of other types of materials blocking the streets or
alleyways, the Town Marshal is instructed to:
      (1)   Issue a warning citation;
      (2)   After first offense a fine of $25 per day until such violation has
been corrected; and
      (3)    In the case that the town must correct the violation for safety
purposes the violating offender will be charged for those costs.
      (4)   If an obstruction or item blocking the streets, roadways or
alleyways is moveable, the town shall effectuate the removal of the obstruction
or item blocking the streets, roadways or alleyways at the expense of the
violator. Any items removed from the streets, roadways or alleyways may be
retrieved by the violator at Town Hall.
   (E)   In case of a moving violation, the Town Marshal’s Department is to
issue a warning citation. After first violation a standard moving violation is
to be issued as covered under state law.
   (F)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
4 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-2, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
   (G)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of this chapter, nor shall
any action be taken by the town to bring the real property into compliance with
this chapter, unless all persons holding a substantial interest in the property
are given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance.
(Ord. 2010-T-049, passed 8-16-2010; Ord. 2023-TO-014, passed 8-14-2023)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   One-way streets
   
III.   Truck traffic
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   State speed laws applicable. The state motor vehicle laws
regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable upon the streets within
the city, except as this chapter provides otherwise. Speed limits established
in this chapter are based upon engineering and traffic investigations as
required by I.C. 9-21-5 et seq. When appropriate signs are erected, these speed
limits are the maximum speeds at which a vehicle may be driven. No person shall
drive a vehicle at a greater speed than that posted.
      (2)   Increased or decreased state speed limits. It has been determined,
upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, that the speed
permitted by state law upon streets or parts of streets described in division
(B) below is greater or less, as specified in the schedules, than it is
reasonable and safe under the conditions found to exist on the streets. When
appropriate signs are erected, the speed limits designated are the maximum
speeds at which a vehicle may be driven. No person shall drive a vehicle at a
speed greater than that posted.
      (3)   Review of speed limits. The Town Council is given authority by this
chapter to periodically review the posted speed limits set forth hereunder and
shall further be given authority to make appropriate changes in the posted
speed limits, provided the changes shall be based upon engineering and traffic
investigations as required by state statute. The Board shall certify revisions
or additions to the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain on
file this chapter and any certification by the Board and the speed limits
therein shall constitute the maximum legal speed limits upon the local streets
and highways within the city.
      (4)   Speed limit on streets not listed. All other local streets, not
including state or federal highways, alleys or otherwise listed shall be 30
mph.
      (5)   The speed limit for the neighborhoods of Heritage Springs, Parkland
Heights and Wind Dance Farms shall be 20 mph.
   (B)   Schedules.
 
Street      Speed  Description
All streets 20 mph Where children present
 
(Ord. 2021-TO-015, passed 12-13-2021)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Street informational sign stating “One-Way” shall be installed on both
sides of Harrison Street at its entry at Buttontown Road indicating Harrison
Street to be one-way going west.
   (B)   Street informational sign stating “Do Not Enter” shall be installed on
both sides of Harrison Street facing west at East Sixth Street.
   (C)   If a violation should occur, fines as stated in town Ord. 2011-MO-002
for failure to obey signs shall apply.
   (D)   All sign posts shall be set in concrete to prevent removal.
   (E)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall purchase one “DO NOT ENTER” sign and
two “ONE WAY” signs for installation. Signs shall be ordered no later than July
13, 2011 and installed upon receiving.
   (F)   Cost of signs, installation materials and labor for installation shall
be charged as a credit against Motor Vehicle Highway Account Number 201001222
Street Signs and 201001231 Materials.
(Ord. 2011-MO-041, passed 7-11-2011)
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LOCAL SEMI-TRACTOR TRAILER.
         (a)   Any commercial trucking business making pick-up or deliveries at
an address on Clark or Harrison Street; and
         (b)   Any commercial trucking business which their main business
location is located on Clark or Harrison Street.
      SEMI-TRACTOR TRAILER VEHICLE. As described by the State Bureau of Motor
Vehicles and State Code.
   (B)   Clark Street from Voyles Road running east to Pekin Road shall be
designated as local semi-tractor trailer traffic only.
   (C)   Harrison Street from West Third Street running east to East Sixth
Street shall be designated as local semi-tractor trailer traffic only.
   (D)   The town shall purchase eight signs to read “LOCAL SEMI-TRACTOR
TRAILER TRAFFIC ONLY” and eight sign posts no later than one week after passage
of this schedule.
   (E)   Signs shall be double mounted (front/back) and installed at the
following locations:
      (1)   Entry of Clark Street at Voyles Road;
      (2)   On Clark Street on east and west side of Cross Street;
      (3)   Entry of Clark Street at Pekin Road;
      (4)   Entry of Harrison Street at West Third Street;
      (5)   On Harrison Street on east and west side of Greenville Georgetown
Road; and
      (6)   Entry of Harrison Street at East Sixth Street.
(Ord. 2013-MR-053, passed 10-14-2013)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animal Control
   
90.01   Enforcement authority
   
90.02   Certain animals prohibited
   
90.03   Limit on ownership of dogs and cats
   
90.04   Animal breeding
   
90.05   Nuisance animals
   
90.06   Animal waste disposal requirements
   
90.07   Confinement of female animals in heat
   
90.08   Disposition of dead animals
   
90.09   Rabies control
   
90.10   Care, treatment and prohibitions regarding abuse of animals
   
90.11   Impoundment and disposition of animals
   
90.12   Enforcement
   
90.13   Animals running at large
Disposal of Dead Animals
   
90.25   Definitions
   
90.26   Disposal
   
90.27   Violations
   
90.28   Effect
 
   
90.99   Penalty
ANIMAL CONTROL
§ 90.01 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall head the Department of Animal Control and be
the quarantining authority for the town. The town’s Marshal, Deputy Marshals
and Reserve Officers shall be Animal Control Officers under the direction of
the Town Marshal. The Department of Animal Control shall enforce the animal
control ordinance and shall investigate any complaints regarding ordinance
violations. The duties and powers of the Department of Animal Control are as
follows:
      (1)   To cause to be enforced all town ordinances and/or state laws
regarding animal care and control;
      (2)   To cause to be picked up by the New Albany and Floyd County Animal
Control and Shelter all animals illegally at large, all sick, diseased,
injured, lost, strayed, stolen or abandoned animals in accordance with Article
5 of interlocal agreement and amendments entered into with the New Albany and
Floyd County Animal Control and Shelter dated May 21, 1999, January 12, 2005,
January 20, 2005 and services to be provided dated January 20, 2005;
      (3)   To proceed upon public and private property within the town in
pursuit of animals believed to be in violation of this subchapter. However,
this authority does not extend to a privately owned structure without the
consent of the owner, lessee or other occupant in control of the premises or
without other legal process or authority. Any animal pursued under this section
may be confiscated and held by the New Albany and Floyd County Animal Control
and Shelter according to its rules and regulations. If an animal is confiscated
without the knowledge or consent of the owner or occupant of the premises, a
notice shall promptly be affixed to said premises in an obvious location,
directing the occupant to contact the New Albany and Floyd County Animal
Control and Shelter, providing the address and telephone number of same on said
notice;
      (4)   To cause to be picked up and disposed of all dead animals found in
or on any street or sidewalk, alley or other public place in the town;
      (5)   To cause to be investigated all reports and complaints concerning
any inhumane treatment or practices pertaining to animals within the town. To
cause to be impounded all animals found in conditions adverse to their health
and safety;
      (6)   The Animal Control Officers shall receive appropriate and relevant
training for the capture and treatment of animals;
      (7)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officers to enforce all
provisions of this subchapter and other ordinances in relation to animals; and
      (8)   Such Animal Control Officers are authorized to enforce all
provisions of this subchapter, including the right to proceed upon public and
private property in the town in pursuit of animals in violation of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Interference with enforcement authority: it shall be unlawful for a
person to interfere with an Animal Control Officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Livestock prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a person to own, keep
or breed a horse, pig, pony, mule, donkey, jackass, goat, chicken, peacock,
turkey, cow, llama or other livestock in the town corporate limits. However,
the provisions of this section shall not apply to zoological parks, or bona
fide circuses or carnivals, or an area designated as a farm used for the
purpose of raising such animals.
   (B)   Wild or dangerous animals prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to own a wild or dangerous animal
in the town corporate limits; however, the provisions of this section shall not
apply to zoological parks, or bona fide circuses or carnivals.
      (2)   Any wild and/or dangerous animal shall be impounded or may be
destroyed if such destruction is necessary to preserve the public health,
safety and welfare of the community.
   (C)   Costs. The owner of any animal that is impounded and/or euthanized
shall be held responsible for payment of any expenses so incurred by the town.
Failure to pay such fee within 15 days after destruction of such animal shall
constitute a violation and may subject the owner to a court judgment in the
amount of the costs incurred for impounding and/or euthanasia in addition to
court costs, as well as reasonable attorney fees. In addition, if another
animal or person is injured as a result of the animal’s actions, the fine
imposed shall not be less than $250 and not more than that allowed by law.
   (D)   Determination and appeals procedure. 
      (1)   Whenever an animal is declared dangerous by the Animal Control
Officer, in his or her discretion, determines that the return of the animal to
its owner would be likely to result in further violations of this chapter, the
animal’s owner or custodian, if known, shall be notified of the intent to
euthanize the animal unless the determination is timely appealed hereunder.
Notice shall be served either in person or by certified mail, or by posting at
the owner’s residence. The animal, if not already held in quarantine at the New
Albany and Floyd County Animal Control and Shelter, shall be surrendered to the
New Albany and Floyd County Animal Control and Shelter.
      (2)   Any decision under these provisions may be appealed to the
Department of Animal Control and quarantining authority. The appeal of the
owner shall be in writing and shall be filed with the Department of Animal
Control/quarantining authority and the New Albany and Floyd County Animal
Control and Shelter within five days after receipt of notification that said
animal has been found to be dangerous. The disposition of any animal shall be
stayed during such an appeal. The animal shall remain impounded during the
appeal process. If no appeal has been filed, the animal may be euthanized on
the sixth day after notice was sent to the animal’s owner if known.
   (E) Hearing. Upon receipt of a written appeal, the Department of Animal
Control shall provide notice and conduct an adjudicative hearing. Thereafter,
the Department of Animal Control shall render a decision that said animal is
dangerous and must be euthanized, or it is not dangerous and should be returned
to the owner. The decision of the Department of Animal Control/quarantining
authority is final and binding upon the applicant, subject to any appeal
rights.
   (F)   Authorization to dispose of animal. Regardless of the provisions of
this section, whenever an Animal Control Officer finds any dangerous dog, cat
or other animals in packs, or running at large in such condition as to be too
dangerous to attempt to capture the animal, then the Animal Control Officer is
authorized to dispose of the animal, where it may be found, by shooting it.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 LIMIT ON OWNERSHIP OF DOGS AND CATS.
   It is unlawful to keep or harbor more than five dogs and five cats beyond
the age of weaning in any dwelling unit, structure or property. A person who
violates this section shall be punishable under penalties section of this
subchapter unless noted otherwise.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ANIMAL BREEDING.
   Breeding of recognized dogs and cats will be allowed by private owners for
resale for no more than one male and one female of a specific breed. What is
known as puppy mill breeding with multiple male and female dogs and cats are
prohibited within the town’s corporate limits.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   If an animal, other than an animal that causes excessive noise, as provided
in §
90.99(B)(2), or that damages property, as provided in §
90.99(B)(3) is found in violation of this chapter, an official warning shall be
given by the Department of Animal Control to the owner of the offending animal.
If a second verified complaint is made after official warning has been given of
a violation of this section, the Department of Animal Control may impound the
animal and issue a fine as set out in §
90.99.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ANIMAL WASTE DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall allow a dog or cat which is kept by that person to
defecate on a public street, byway, municipally owned or public land or
building, or upon private property in the town without promptly removing any
feces to a waste container, or otherwise dispose of such material in a manner
inoffensive to reasonable public sensibilities, and shall not allow waste to
accumulate to offensive nuisance levels.
   (B)   No person shall allow their dog or cat to repeatedly urinate on
municipally owned or public land or building, or upon private property in the
town (including shrubs, trees, plants, specific areas of grass or private
items) that would result in the destruction or damage of said item or area.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the owner of a
dog serving a vision-impaired person in an auxiliary ocular capacity or in any
capacity to assist such person with a physical impairment may permit such dog
to relieve itself on ground situated outside of pedestrian or vehicular traffic
ways, and is relieved of the requirement to remove any feces to the extent such
requirement is impractical for a person of such impairment.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   The owner or keeper of any female animal in heat kept in the town shall
confine the animal within a secure enclosure.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 DISPOSITION OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner of an animal is responsible for picking up dead animal bodies and
body parts when on privately owned property and the lawful disposition of them.
When the animal is on public property within the town corporate limits the
Department of Animal Control is to be contacted. The Animal Control Officer
shall contact the New Albany and Floyd County Animal Control and Shelter to
pick up dead animals.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010)
§ 90.09 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Anti-rabies vaccinations required for all dogs and cats not confined
to owner’s property. It shall be unlawful to keep a dog or cat over the age of
three months in the town unless such cat or dog is immunized against rabies by
a vaccination performed by a veterinarian and the period of immunization
specified by the veterinarian performing the vaccination has not expired.
   (B)   Record of anti-rabies vaccination; tag required if not on owner’s
property.
      (1)   A veterinarian who administers an anti-rabies vaccination, at the
time a dog or cat is vaccinated, issues to the animal’s owner a durable anti-
rabies vaccination identification tag upon which is imprinted the name of the
veterinarian’s facility, telephone number and the year and identification
number of the vaccination.
      (2)   For the purpose of identification, each owner of a dog or cat which
is kept in the town shall cause the ant-rabies vaccination identification tag
to be affixed to the animal’s collar, and to be worn by the animal at all times
when not on owner’s property.
   (C)   Precautionary measures and individual animal quarantine. A captured
animal known to have bitten or otherwise exposed a person to the possibility of
contracting rabies through non-bite exposure in the town shall be humanely
quarantined for a period of not less than ten days. In the sole discretion of
the Department of Animal Control/quarantining authority, the quarantine may be
on the premises of the owner, or at the owner’s expense in a kennel or
veterinary hospital.
   (D)   Surrender of suspected animal by owner. Whenever the quarantining
authority has reasonable cause to suspect that an animal in the town has been
exposed to rabies, or bitten or exposed through non-bite exposure a person to
rabies, such animal shall be surrendered by its owner for quarantine and
observation, at the owner’s expense, promptly upon demand by the quarantining
authority. Such quarantine and observation shall be at the owner of the
animal’s expense.
   (E)   Finding of rabies: general quarantine.
      (1)   When an animal quarantined by the Department of Animal Control has
been found to be rabid or is suspected of being rabid by a veterinarian and
dies while under observation, the quarantining authority shall take such action
as is specified in such cases by the State Board of Animal Health and shall
notify the proper public health officials of reports of human contacts made by,
and the diagnosis made of, the animal.
      (2)   When a rabies report is made under division (E)(1) above, the
quarantining authority shall institute a general quarantine for a period of 30
days. Upon invocation of the general quarantine by the quarantining authority,
any animal found at large in the city may be destroyed without being impounded.
During the quarantine period, every animal bitten or exposed through non-bite
exposure by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be confined, at its owner’s
expense, or destroyed as specified by the State Board of Animal Health.
   (F)   Disposition of rabid animals. The quarantining authority shall dispose
of any animal reasonably suspected by it of being infected with rabies in the
town in accordance with the rules and regulations of the state board of animal
health.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 CARE, TREATMENT AND PROHIBITIONS REGARDING ABUSE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   General requirements for animal care and treatment. Every owner or
keeper of an animal kept in the town shall see that such animal:
      (1)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner and is not confined
so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in its own excrement; the person(s)
responsible for animal(s) shall regularly and as often as necessary to prevent
odor or health and sanitation problems, maintain all animal areas or areas of
animal contact;
      (2)   Has food that is appropriate for the species in adequate amounts to
maintain good health, fresh potable drinking water where appropriate, shelter
and ventilation, including quarters that are protected from excessive heat and
cold and are of sufficient size to permit the animal to exercise and move about
freely;
      (3)   Shall not be tethered by use of a choke collar, or on any collar
too small for the size and age of the animal, nor by any rope, chain or cord
directly attached to the animal’s neck, nor by a leash less than 12 feet in
length, or of such unreasonable weight as to prevent the animal from moving
about freely;
      (4)   Shall not be tethered or confine an animal at a vacant structure or
premises for any purpose or time if not monitored by a competent adult who is
present at the property for the duration of the tethering or confinement.
Invisible fencing with collar control is allowed.
      (5)   Is protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect, torment, overload,
overwork or any other mistreatment;
      (6)   Shall provide the reasonably necessary medical care, in addition to
the required rabies vaccination which shall include recommended vaccinations as
required by accepted veterinary standards, and if diseased or injured, or
exhibiting symptoms of disease, receives proper care and is segregated from
other animals so as to prevent transmittal of the disease;
      (7)   Is maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state and
local laws and all regulations respecting animal care and control as are
adopted by the town;
      (8)   It shall be unlawful for a person to beat, starve or otherwise
mistreat any animal in the town; and
      (9)   In the discretion of the Department of Animal Control, a person who
violates any provision of this section for the first time may be given written
notice of the practices or conditions which constitute the violation, and the
Department of Animal Control shall in such instance direct remedies to such
person where appropriate and provide a time period of no longer than 30 days
within which to correct the violation(s). Failure of the person to correct the
violations within the specified time period shall constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
   (B)   Abandonment of animal. It shall be unlawful for a person to abandon
any animal on public or private property in the town.
   (C)   Animals in vehicles.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to leave an animal unattended in a vehicle
when the conditions in that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the
animal.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat to ride in the bed of a
pickup truck on public streets, highways and/or rights-of-way unless the animal
is securely caged and protected from the environment or unless the bed of the
pickup truck is enclosed with a camper shell or other device and there is
appropriate and sufficient ventilation.
   (D)   Report of vehicular collision with animal. A person whose vehicle
causes injury or death to an animal in the town shall stop at once, assess the
extent of the injury to the extent that it is safe to do so, and immediately
notify the animal’s owner, if known, or the Department of Animal Control, with
a description of the animal struck, the location of the striking and an
estimate as to the condition of the animal after being struck, along with the
rabies tag number of the animal, if it can safely be ascertained. Such person
shall not be required to report his or her name, as the only purpose of this
requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its owner.
   (E)   Lost or stray animals.
      (1)   Persons finding a stray animal are to notify the Department of
Animal Control within 48 hours. At the discretion of the Department of Animal
Control, the animal may be kept by the finder and a found report left with the
Department of Animal Control to enable the finder an opportunity to return the
animal to its rightful owner.
      (2)   Upon demand, by the Department of Animal Control, the New Albany
and Floyd County Animal Control and Shelter will be notified of any found
animal for pick up.
      (3)   Person(s) finding an animal is obligated to comply with all the
rules and regulations of this subchapter pertaining to humane care and
treatment of animals, while said animal is in their custody awaiting return to
its actual owner.
      (4)   With the exception of the Department of Animal Control, the finder
will be considered the found animal’s owner for purposes of this subchapter
only after the animal is in the finder’s custody for 30 continuous days.
   (F)   Attempts to poison any animal. It shall be unlawful for a person to
throw or deposit poisoned meat or any poison or harmful substance in any
street, alley, marketplace or public place, or on any private premises, in the
town for the purpose of destroying or injuring any animal.
   (G)   Unlawful to shoot any animal. It shall be unlawful for a person to
shoot any dog, cat or other animal unless it is a dangerous animal.
   (H)   Animal fights.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to incite, train to fight (other
than a crime prevention dog) or set any animal to fighting another animal or to
incite combat between animals and humans in the town.
      (2)   No person shall possess animal fighting paraphernalia and a dog,
cock, fowl or bird bearing a scar, wound or injury consistent with animal
fighting.
      (3)   No person shall attend an animal fighting contest.
      (4)   No person shall sell, purchase, own, harbor, give away, barter,
breed or possess any animal for animal fighting.
      (5)   No person shall permit anyone to use any building, shed, room,
yard, ground, premises, vehicle or property, whether enclosed or not for the
purpose of animal fighting.
      (6)   No person shall aid, abet, assist, act as judge or referee, bet or
wager money or other valuable consideration on the outcome of, be at, attend or
in any way engage in the furtherance of an exhibition of animal fighting.
   (I)   Prohibited animal events. No person or group of persons or any for-
profit organization, whether for pay or other compensation or for free
promotional purpose, shall conduct or allow any event involving contests
between animals or persons using animals in any form or manner except those
events reviewed and approved for public safety and the safety, well-being and
comfort of the animals involved by the Department of Animal Control.
   (J)   Enticement of another person’s animal.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person, not so authorized, to enter or
invade the private premises of another person in the town to capture, entice or
take any animal out of the enclosure or premises of the owner, or to seize an
animal at any place while such animal is accompanied by its owner or keeper.
      (2)   Except as expressly authorized in this subchapter, it shall be
unlawful for a person to entice any animal away from the premises of the person
who owns or keeps such animal in the town, or to entice an animal from a
street, alley or public place in the town with the intent to deprive the owner
of the animal’s possession.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for a person to bring into the town an animal
for the purpose of its impoundment, or the collection of any fee or reward for
its return, except as provided in this chapter.
   (K)   Interference with another person’s animal. It shall be unlawful for a
person to feed, tease, tantalize or provoke any animal in the town without the
express consent of the animal’s owner, if any, while the animal is on the
owner’s property or under the owner’s control.
   (L)   Unlawful use of a dog. It shall be unlawful for a person to make use
of a dog in the commission or furtherance of any criminal act in the town.
   (M)   Offensive use of any animal.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful in the town for a person willfully to deposit
a live or dead animal upon public or private premises not owned by that person,
or willfully to throw a live or dead animal or insect against any other person,
or aid or abet another person in doing so.
      (2)   No person shall engage or cause to allow any other person to engage
in a sexual act with any animal.
   (N)   Animals not to be offered as novelties or prizes.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to sell, offer for sale, trade,
barter or give away in the town any live animal, bird or reptile as a novelty,
prize for or as an inducement to enter a place of amusement; or offer such
vertebrate as an incentive to enter any business establishment or enter into
any business agreement whereby the offer was made for the purpose of attracting
trade for business, other than establishments selling animals as their primary
business.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to transport into the town any
live animal, bird or reptile for any purposes prohibited by division (N)(1)
above.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for a person to sell, offer for sale or
otherwise dispose of any animal whose appearance has been artificially or
chemically colored, sprayed or painted
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Grounds for impoundment. Any dangerous animal, any animal causing a
public nuisance in violation of this chapter, or any animal that is not tagged
may be captured and impounded.
   (B)   Notice to owner.
      (1)   Upon the impoundment of an animal, a reasonable attempt shall be
made to notify and inform the owner of the animal of the requirements of this
subchapter for regaining the custody of the animal.
      (2)   Such attempt shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following: contact with the veterinarian facility listed on the animal’s
vaccination tag if attached to animal’s collar.
   (C)   Report of impoundment. A person who confines an animal found by that
person to be at large in the town shall notify the Department of Animal Control
within 48 hours thereafter.
   (D)   Return of captured animal without impoundment. When the owner of a
captured animal is known, such animal need not be impounded, but may be
returned to its owner if, in the opinion of the Department of Animal Control,
the return would not present a danger to the public or otherwise result in a
violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   Return of impounded animal to owner.
      (1)   An animal impounded under this division (E), if claimed by its
owner, shall be returned to its owner subject to, and upon compliance with, the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   The owner of an impounded animal may obtain the return of such
animal upon compliance with any applicable provisions the New Albany and Floyd
County Animal Control and Shelter may impose, including proof of ownership, the
payment of the appropriate impoundment and kennel fees as regularly charged by
the New Albany and Floyd County Animal Control and Shelter, and a $25 animal
control fee payable to the Department of Animal Control.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, an animal
which has been impounded as a wild or dangerous animal, or which has been
impounded on two or more prior occasions, or which has bitten or otherwise
caused injury to person or property shall be returned to its owner only if the
Department of Animal Control in its discretion determines that such return will
not result in further ongoing violations of these ordinance.
      (4)   If such a determination cannot be made, or if the animal has been
declared wild or dangerous, the Department of Animal Control then shall send
notice to the owner of its intent to have the animal disposed of.
   (F)   Use of owner-surrendered or impounded animal for research prohibited.
No animal surrendered by its owner or impounded under this section shall be
used or disposed of for purposes of research or experimentation by use of the
animal.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this subchapter shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-3 or I.C.
36-1-6-4, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010)
§ 90.13 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any animal which he or
she owns or harbors to run at large upon any public place or upon private
property other than that of the owner within the town limits.
   (B)   However, police dogs and leader dogs which are actively engaged in
activities for which such dogs are trained, need not be leashed when under the
reasonable control of it owner.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a dog which he or she
owns or harbors to be at large in the town unless the dog is under leash not
exceeding eight feet in length, other than when on the premises of the person
or upon the premises of another with the knowledge, consent, and approval of
the owner of the premises.
   (D)   It shall be lawful for any person to seize any dog running at large in
violation of this section and to turn such dog over to the animal control
officer, town police, or his or her assistants.
(Ord. 2020-T-006, passed 4-13-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS
§ 90.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any domestic animal, exotic animal or wild animal.
   DEAD ANIMAL. An animal that has died other than by slaughter.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  
      (1)   Cattle, calves, horses, mules, swine, sheep, goats, dogs, cats,
poultry, ostriches, rhea, emus or other birds;
      (2)   An animal of the bovine, equine, bovine, caprine, porcine, canine,
feline, avian, camelid, cervidae or bison species; or
      (3)   An aquatic animal that may be the subject of aquaculture (as
defined in I.C. 15-11-7-1).
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. A flesh-eating wild animal.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, keeps, possesses or harbors an animal.
   WILD ANIMAL. An animal that is not a domestic animal.
(Ord. 2010-T-020, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 90.26 DISPOSAL.
   (A)   A person who owns or cares for an animal that has died from any cause
shall dispose of the animal’s body not later than 24 hours after knowledge of
death so as not to produce a nuisance. The disposal of the animal’s body must
be by one of the following methods:
      (1)   At an approved disposal plant;
      (2)   Burial upon the owner’s premises to such a depth that every part of
the animal’s body is at least four feet below the natural surface of the ground
and every part of the animal’s body is covered with at least four feet of earth
in addition to any other material that may be used as cover;
      (3)   Thorough and complete incineration according to standards
established by an appropriate governmental agency; or
      (4)   Composting according to standards approved by the State Board of
Health.
   (B)   Upon discovery of a dead animal by the New Albany/Floyd County Animal
Control and/or the County Health Department, the owner shall be notified, if
known, and shall be ordered to dispose of the remains immediately. If the owner
is unknown, the Animal Control Officer or Health Department representative
shall notify the owner of the property upon which the remains are located and
shall order the owner of the property to dispose of the remains immediately.
(Ord. 2010-T-020, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 2010-T-037, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 90.27 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If the owner of a dead animal fails to dispose of the dead animal
within 24 hours after receiving notice to dispose of said animal, the Health
Officer or his or her designated representative shall cause the remains to be
disposed of in a suitable manner.
   (B)   The owner of the dead animal and/or the owner of the property on which
the dead animal is located shall be liable for all costs associated with the
removal of the dead animal by the Health Officer or his or her designated
representative as well as any costs incurred in collecting the costs of
removal, including, but not limited to, attorney fees.
(Ord. 2010-T-020, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 90.28 EFFECT.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to limit or contravene the
provisions of I.C. 15-17-11-1 et seq.
   (B)   All provisions of all prior ordinances adopted by the Board of
Commissioners for the county, not specifically contradicted herein shall remain
in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2010-T-020, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Sections
90.01 through
90.12.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.12 shall be issued a citation, which shall contain the name and address of
the violator, the code section violated, the date, time and nature of the
violation, location of the violation, and the name of the person issuing the
citation.
         (b)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.12 that does not have a specific penalty for that provision shall be fined
for each offense, in any sum not less than $50 and each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
         (c)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be
sought against person or person’s responsible real estate in accordance with
I.C. 36-1-6-2 plus attorney fees and court costs.
         (d)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-
1-6-3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed plus attorney fees and court costs.
         (e)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of §§
90.01 through
90.12, nor shall any action be taken by the town to bring the real property
into compliance with §§
90.01 through
90.12, unless all persons holding a substantial interest in the property are
given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance.
         (f)   The town shall give all persons holding a substantial interest
in any real property, which is not in compliance with §§
90.01 through
90.12 ten days’ written notice to correct the condition and bring the property
into compliance. Such notice may be in person by any member of the Town
Marshal’s Department, or by mailing it by registered or certified mail with
return receipt requested.
         (g)   Furthermore, if the condition of said real estate has not been
corrected within 30 days, the town may cause to be certified to the County
Auditor as a charge against the taxes due and payable to the County Treasurer
in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor statute, if said statute is
repealed.
      (2)   Section
90.05.
         (a)   If a second verified complaint is made after official warning
has been given of a violation of §
90.05, the Department of Animal Control may impound the animal and issue a fine
to the owner of at least $100, but not more than $250 for a second violation,
depending upon the severity of the offense. This fine shall be reduced to $50
and the animal returned to the animal’s owner, if within four days of receiving
notification of said violation, the owner details and verifies the steps that
are being taken to correct the violation, and the animal has been altered or
the owner agrees to alter said animal. For a third violation, the fine imposed
shall be not less than $250 nor more than $500, and the animal may be
impounded. The animal, if claimed, shall be returned to its owner, provided
that all fines have been paid.
         (b)   Upon a verified complaint made to the Department of Animal
Control of an animal that barks, whines, howls or makes other sounds common to
its species in an annoying, excessive and continuous manner, an official
warning shall be given, at the discretion of the Department of Animal Control,
to the owner of the offending animal. If a second verified complaint is made
after official warning has been given, the owner shall pay a fine of $50,
unless the owner details and verifies in writing within three days of receiving
notice the steps that are being taken to correct the problem. Upon a third
verified complaint, the offending animal may be impounded. For a third
violation, the fine imposed shall be not less than $250 nor more than $500. The
animal, if claimed, shall be returned to its owner, provided that all fines
have been paid.
      (3)   Damage. Upon a verified complaint made to the Department of Animal
Control of an animal that damages private or public property, notification
shall be given to the owner, the animal may be impounded and the owner shall
pay a fine of at least $100, but not more than $500. The animal, if claimed,
shall be returned to its owner, provided that all fines have been paid.
      (4)   Section
90.09. During a general quarantine declared by the quarantining authority under
this section, an animal’s owner or keeper who resists the quarantining
authority acting under this section, or who permits an animal owned or kept by
that person to be at large in the town, shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500, and any animal which is suspected of being rabid or is in
violation of the general quarantine shall be impounded at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Penalties for violation of §
90.13. Penalties for violation of §
90.13 shall be as follows:
      (1)   (a)   First offense: $250;
         (b)   Second offense: up to $500; or
         (c)   Third offense: up to $2,500.
      (2)   Fines are payable to the Clerk-Treasurer and due 15 days after the
date the citation was issued. Unpaid fines will be referred to the Town
Attorney for further legal proceedings.
(Ord. 2010-T-056, passed 8-30-2010; Ord. 2020-T-006, passed 4-13-2020)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Public policy
§ 91.01 PUBLIC POLICY.
   (A)   It is the public policy of the town to support and encourage equal
education and employment opportunities and equal access to and use of all
public conveniences and accommodations and equal opportunity for acquisition of
real property in accordance with the State Civil Rights Law (I.C. 22-9-1), a
copy of which is on file for public inspection in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   The town designates the State Civil Rights Commission as the agency
appropriate to implement the purposes and objectives of the State Civil Rights
Law and to enforce the provisions thereof.
(Ord. 1, passed 12-10-1979)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Disposal of trash, grass, weeds and abandoned vehicles
   
92.02   Noise
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animal waste disposal requirements, see §
90.06
   Nuisance animals, see §
90.05
§ 92.01 DISPOSAL OF TRASH, GRASS, WEEDS AND ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Disposal of trash, grass, weeds and abandoned vehicles.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ABANDONED VEHICLE A vehicle that:
            1.   Has remained on private real property without the consent of
the owner for more than 48 hours;
            2.   Is at least three years old, is mechanically inoperable and is
left on private property continuously in a location visible from public
property for more than 20 days;
            3.   A vehicle which does not have a current year’s license plate
and registration from the state will be considered not to be operational;
            4.   This division (A) exempts any vehicle defined as a classic
vehicle by the State Bureau of Motor Vehicle. Exemption will apply to no more
than six vehicles and vehicles must be covered if outside of a covered
structure while being physically repaired;
            5.   This division (A) exempts any vehicle located on an automobile
for sales lot which has posted its federal identification number and state
sales and use tax certificate; and
            6.   Said term ABANDONED VEHICLE shall further have the meanings
set forth in I.C. 9-13-2-1.
            PERSON. Any natural person, firm, corporation, company, entity or
any association of the preceding, who own, lease, use or reside on real estate,
whether used for residential or commercial purposes, located within the town.
      (2)   Regulations.
         (a)   No person shall store, or permit to be stored, on any real
estate within the town any used building materials, rubbish, garbage, waste,
trash or any other materials that are not fit for any reasonable purpose,
including, but not limited to, abandoned vehicles.
         (b)   No person shall permit any grass, weeds or other vegetation to
grow on real property to a height greater than 12 inches above the ground.
         (c)   No person shall permit any tree, shrub, bush, hedge or other
foliage or vegetation, on any real property within the corporate limits of the
town, to encroach upon, or interfere with the use of, any public sidewalk,
street, road or right-of-way.
         (d)   No person shall allow any tree, shrub, bush, hedge or other
foliage or vegetation, on any real property, to grow to the extent that it
obstructs the view on any public roadway, street or right-of-way within the
corporate limits of the town.
      (3)   Enforcement. Enforcement of this division (A) shall be pursuant to
I.C. 36-1-6-3 or I.C. 36-1-6-4 or a successor statute if said statute is
repealed.
(B)   Mowing. 
      (1)   After complaint is received or it is determined by a Town Council
member that real estate is in violation of this division (B), the Town Marshal
or Marshal Department member, under the direction of the Marshal, shall issue a
citation requiring said real estate to be brought into compliance with division
(A)(2)(b) within ten days.
      (2)   Citation from the Town Marshal’s Department shall be the only
notice given to the real property owner. Citation issued shall be written to
real property location or address in care of person or persons if known
receiving citation and all parties with ownership interest in the real property
if known. If ownership of real property cannot be determined, the address of
the real property shall be sent by certified mail and the citation and this
division (B) shall be posted on the real property. In the situation of a vacant
lot, if ownership cannot be determined, the citation and ordinance shall be
posted on the door of the Town Hall.
      (3)   After ten days, if real property has not been brought into
compliance with division (A)(2)(b) above, the Town Council committee chair of
property clean-up, under the direction of the Town Council President, or his or
her designee, shall cause the real property to be brought into compliance.
(Ord. 2010-T-046, passed 8-16-2010; Ord. 2011-TO-035, passed 6-13-2011; Ord.
2011-MO-042, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 NOISE.
   (A)   No person or property owner shall vocalize, play, use or operate any
machine, device or thing that produces or reproduces sound, including, but not
limited to, constant loud or screaming vocalization, loudspeakers, radios,
music players, television sets, musical instruments, equipment or fireworks,
nor operate any motor vehicle that contains a modified or defective exhaust
system, if such machine, tool, vehicle or thing is located in or on any of the
following:
      (1)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way, building,
sidewalk, public space, park or thoroughfare and the sound generated therefrom
is: audible 50 feet or more from its source; or is at a level of 80 decibels or
more when measured on a dB(A) scale from a distance of not less than 15 feet
from its source; or
      (2)   Any private property and the sound generated therefrom is: audible
50 feet or more outside of said property line; or is at a level of 80 decibels
or more when measured on a dB(A) scale from a distance of not less than 15 feet
from said private property line.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to produce or initiate, or to be the
cause of production of noise in one unit of a multi-unit structure which is
audible in another unit of that same multi-unit structure between 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m., except for unintentional noises that cannot be reasonably
controlled.
   (C)   No person shall use, operate or rev up any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle in such a manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or any other noise that is audible above background sounds at a
distance of 75 feet or more from the noise source, and which disturbs the peace
and quiet of others, between the hours 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person within a residential zone or
within a radius of 500 feet therefrom to carry out or conduct the following
activities if such activities create a noise that generates any complaint:
      (1)   Between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.: the loading, unloading, opening,
closing or other handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials,
trash cans, dumpsters or similar objects; and
      (2)   Between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. (Monday through Friday), 10:00
p.m. and 8:00 am (Saturday, Sunday and national holidays): the operation or use
of heavy construction vehicles and equipment involved in construction,
demolition, property maintenance or similar activity, including, but not
limited to, bulldozers, graders, dump trucks, backhoes, earthmoving equipment,
front end loaders and log skidders; the operation or use of tools, power tools
or construction equipment to include, but not limited to: cement mixers,
hammers, staple or nail guns, power tools (i.e., saws, drills, grinders,
sanders, chain saws, lawnmowers, electric hedge trimmers, lawn edgers, leaf
blowers and jack hammers), whether involved in construction, demolition,
repair, maintenance or similar activity.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle with a
gross vehicular weight less than 8,000 pounds which causes excessive noise as a
result of a defective or modified exhaust system or as a result of an
unnecessary rapid acceleration, de-acceleration, engine revving or tire
squealing.
   (F)   No person shall keep any animal, other than a service animal lawfully
used by a handicapped person to accommodate his or her handicap, which, by
causing frequent or long-continuing noise that is audible 50 feet or more from
its source when the animal is on public property or 15 or more feet or more
outside of a private property line when the animal is on private property, does
disturb the comfort or repose of any other person.
   (G)   The following are exempted from the provision of this section:
      (1)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles or sirens;
      (2)   Lawn mowers, weed blowers, garden tractors, construction and repair
equipment, go-carts and power tools, when properly muffled between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. (Monday through Friday), 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Saturday, Sunday and national holidays);
      (3)   Burglar alarms and other warning devices when properly installed,
providing the cause for such alarm or warning device sound is investigated and
turned off within a reasonable period of time;
      (4)   Town authorized parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations,
concert performances, scholastic band performances and artistic performances,
as well as any rehearsals for same, and all other events authorized by the Town
Council;
      (5)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic
or sporting events and practices related thereto;
      (6)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency construction,
snow removal, leaf collection, repair or any other work performed or approved
by the town;
      (7)   Sounds emitted by emergency generators in the event of power
failure or periodic testing and maintenance;
      (8)   Sounds associated with the use of legal consumer fireworks in
accordance with Ord. 2010-T-057;
      (9)   Garbage and refuse equipment not connected to construction
activities between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.;
      (10)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, and any other
applicable law, rule or regulation, sounds associated with motor vehicles
lawfully operating on town, county, state and federal streets and highways;
      (11)   Sounds associated with equipment or animals lawfully utilized by
handicapped persons to accommodate their handicap;
      (12)   Babies, infants or children crying;
      (13)   Noise associated with common agricultural practices (e.g., grain
bin dryers, equipment and activities associated with planting or harvesting);
and
      (14)   Train horns required by law.
   (H)   Special permits: applications for a permit for relief from the
regulations contained in this subchapter may be made in writing to the Town
Council prior to a violation. Any permit granted by the Town Council must be in
writing and shall contain all conditions upon which said permit shall be
effective. In granting any such permit, Town Council may prescribe any
reasonable conditions or requirements deemed necessary to minimize adverse
effects upon the community or the surrounding neighborhood.
   (I)   Enforcement of this section shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-1, I.C.
36-1-6-2, I.C. 36-1-6-3 or I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor statute if said
statute is repealed. The Town Marshal’s Department shall enforce this section.
(Ord. 2016-TO-026, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   The town shall give all persons holding a substantial interest
in any real property which is not in compliance with §
92.01(A) ten days’ written notice to correct the condition and bring the
property into compliance. Such notice may be in person by any member of the
Town Marshal’s Department, or by mailing it by registered or certified mail
with return receipt requested.
      (2)   For each day any person or entity shall be in violation of §
92.01(A) after the ten-day period set forth in I.C. 36-1 -6-2, said person
shall be fined an amount not less than $50 per day.
      (3)   Furthermore, if the condition of said real estate has not been
corrected within 30 days after the aforesaid ten-day notice period, the town
may cause such condition to be corrected by mowing said grass or weeds;
trimming such trees, shrubs, bushes, hedges or other foliage or vegetation; or
by removal or cleanup of said motor vehicles, trash, waste, garbage, rubbish or
unused building materials and the town shall cause an amount, which is the sum
of the penalty levied pursuant to division (B)(2) above, and the cost of
mowing, trimming, removal or cleanup, to be certified to the County Auditor as
a charge against the taxes due and payable to the County Treasurer in the
following year in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2, or a successor statute if said
statute is repealed.
      (4)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute of said statute is repealed, including attorney fees and court cost.
      (5)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of §
92.01(A), nor shall any action be taken by the town to bring the real property
into compliance with §
92.01(A), unless all persons holding a substantial interest in the property are
given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance.
   (C)   (1)   When it is determined by the Town Council President that a real
property requires the town to contract a lawn maintenance company or hire an
individual to bring a real property into compliance with §
92.01(A) and (B), a fine of $500 per each mowing plus the cost of mowing shall
be levied, plus attorney fees and court cost. All fines shall be placed in the
General Fund Marshal Reserve Pay Account No. 101001116. All mowing fees shall
be placed in the Local Roads and Streets Maintenance ROW Account No. 201001361.
All attorney fees and court cost shall be placed in the General Fund Legal
Account No. 101001315. All unused fines and fees received under penalties and
fines of §
92.01(B) placed in these accounts shall carry over into these accounts for the
next year’s budget every year.
      (2)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4 plus attorney fees
and court cost, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
      (3)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of §
92.01(B), nor shall any action be taken by the town to bring the real property
into compliance with §
92.01(B), unless all persons holding a substantial interest in the property are
given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance.
      (4)   The town shall give all persons holding a substantial interest in
any real property, which is not in compliance with §
92.01(B) ten days from written citation to correct the condition and bring the
property into compliance. Such citation shall be in person by any member of the
Town Marshal’s Department, or by mailing it by registered or certified mail
with return receipt requested.
      (5)   For any person or entity in violation of §
92.01(B) after the ten-day period set forth in division (C)(4) above, said
person shall be fined $500 per mowing plus the cost of mowing, attorney fees
and court cost for the town to bring real property into compliance. This fine
supersedes fines stated under fines and penalties as established by town §
92.01(A)(2)(b) for a not to exceed height for grass and weeds.
      (6)   Furthermore, if fines, mowing cost and penalties levied on said
real estate has not been paid within 30 days, the town may cause to be
certified to the County Auditor as a charge against the taxes due and payable
to the County Treasurer to be forwarded to the town in the following year
together with attorney fees and court cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or
successor statute, if said statute is repealed.
   (D)   First citation issued to a property owner shall not incur any fines
except those stated in division (C) above if property owner does not bring
property into compliance. If it becomes necessary that the Town Marshal’s
Department, under the direction of the Town Council President, or his or her
designee, to issue a second citation or more within the same mowing season, a
fine of $50 shall be imposed upon property owner for each citation written. If
the property owner does not bring property into compliance after second
citation or more within the same mowing season fines stated in division (C)
above shall apply including the fine for the second or more citations.
   (E)   (1)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be
sought against person or person’s responsible real estate with attorney fees
and court cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2.
      (2)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1 -
6-3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
      (3)   Any prohibited act under §
92.02 shall incur a written warning for the first violation, fine in the amount
of $100 for a second violation, $200 for a third violation and a penalty of
$500 for a fourth and each subsequent offense, plus attorney fees and court
cost.
      (4)   In addition to the fine prescribed above, in case the source of the
noise violating §
92.02 continues for a period of more than three days, or is caused by repeated
or habitual activity, the source of such noise may be considered a public
nuisance. The town may, after notice, bring an action to compel compliance with
§
92.02 pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2.
   (F)   The town may also seek injunctive relief against the operator of any
such nuisance pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4.
   (G)   The town may seek removal costs and associated expenses and fees,
including reasonable attorney fees, against the owner of any real property upon
which a noise nuisance is located pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2. If those costs are
not paid the town may seek to impose a lien upon the real estate upon which
such a nuisance is located.
   (H)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of §
92.02, nor shall any action be taken by the town to bring the real property
into compliance with §
92.02, unless all persons holding a substantial interest in the property are
given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance.
   (I)   The town shall give all persons holding a substantial interest in any
real property, which is not in compliance with §
92.02, ten days’ written notice to pay imposed fines. Such notice may be in
person by any member of the Town Marshal’s Department, or by mailing it by
registered or certified mail with return receipt requested.
   (J)   Furthermore, if the imposed fines have not been paid within 30 days
after the aforesaid ten-day notice period, the town may cause to be certified
to the County Auditor as a charge against the taxes due and payable to the
County Treasurer in the following year, together with attorney fees and court
cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor statute, if said statute is
repealed.
(Ord. 2010-T-046, passed 8-16-2010; Ord. 2011-TO-035, passed 6-13-2011; Ord.
2011-MO-042, passed 7-18-2011; Ord. 2016-TO-026, passed 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Procedure for acceptance of public roads
§ 93.01 PROCEDURE FOR ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC ROADS.
   (A)   The acceptance process is as follows:
      (1)   Vacated or privately-owned roads are inspected by town’s contracted
engineer and designee of owner. Other parties may be included for the
inspection process including, but not limited to, Town Board members, town or
owner’s designees, developer.
      (2)   The town’s contracted engineer creates a punch list to be completed
by the owner/developer at his or her cost.
      (3)   The town’s contracted engineer re-inspects said vacated or
privately-owned roads to ensure items listed on punch list are completed. This
inspection may include other parties may be included for the inspection process
including, but not limited to, Town Board members, the town or owner’s
designees, developer.
      (4)   If deficiencies still exist, the town’s contracted engineer will
document these deficiencies in his or her report.
      (5)   If no deficiencies exist, the town’s contracted engineer will
provide a signature on the initial inspection which indicates all concerns have
been adequately addressed or provide a signed letter stating the acceptance.
This signed signature document will be given to a town’s representative if
present for the inspection or delivered to the Town Hall via in person, mail,
email or fax.
      (6)   The Town Board will vote on accepting the vacated or privately-
owned roads at the next regularly scheduled Board meeting. Upon acceptance, a
copy of this regulation will be attached to the signed inspection and filed for
reference according to road and/or development name.
   (B)   (1)   After completion of all improvements and installations to the
roads in a good workmanlike manner and approval of same by the town’s
contracted engineer and confirmation of compliance with all state and local
laws, the town shall accept all roads as public roads.
      (2)   Unless there is a separate construction entrance to any
construction site within a planned subdivision where the roads have been
accepted by the town, a subdivider, person, corporation, association,
partnership or other entity who develops land in section of phases such that
the development of one section requires construction traffic, truck traffic
and/or heavy equipment to cross over existing public roads, shall repair any
damages caused by construction traffic over the existing public roads. The town
may withhold further approval of roads and permits until such time as the
repairs have been made and approved by the town’s contracted engineer.
      (3)   In no case shall any roads be accepted into the town’s inventory
until such time when the town’s contracted engineer has recommended acceptance
of same and the Town Council has accepted same at a public meeting.
   (C)   The above acceptance process will be followed.
(Ord. 2019-TO-002, passed 2-11-2019; Ord. 2019-TO-003, passed 2-11-2019)
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
      
111.   YARD SALES, GARAGE SALES AND AUCTION SALES
      
112.   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING
      
113.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Retail merchant certificates
   
110.02   Outdoor advertising; signs
   
110.03   [Reserved]
   
110.04   Unlicensed childcare facilities
   
110.05   Public dance halls license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 RETAIL MERCHANT CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a RETAIL MERCHANT shall be a merchant
as described in I.C. 6-2.5-3-1(C).
   (B)   The retail merchant shall comply with I.C. 6-2.5-8-1(1)(A), (1)(F) and
(1)(H) as a registered retail merchant certified by a state registered retail
merchant’s certificate.
   (C)   The retail merchant shall keep a valid copy of his or her registered
retail merchant’s certificate on file at the Town Hall, and posted as stated on
the registered retail merchant certificate.
   (D)   The Town Council Clerk shall compile a list of these merchants with
valid dates of their registered retail merchant’s certificate and its
expiration date.
   (E)   The Town Council requests that these retail merchants be considerate
of any resident whose property adjoins their business. The merchant should
realize that the resident who adjoins his or her business is his or her home
and he or she has the right not to be forced to view a merchants property that
is unsightly.
   (F)   If complaints continue against a retail merchant, the Town Council
shall require that the retail merchant receiving the complaints erect a privacy
fence as a buffer zone between him or her and the complaining resident as long
as it does not impair the view of the traveling public.
   (G)   If a retail merchant has not filed a copy of their registered retail
merchant certificate with the Town Council Clerk, and a complaint has been
received by the Town Council, the merchant shall not be considered a retail
merchant and all town ordinances and resolutions will apply.
   (H)   Enforcement of this section shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-3 or I.C.
36-1-6-4, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-T-048, passed 8-16-2010) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING; SIGNS.
   (A)   The placement of outdoor advertising within the corporate limits of
the town, is prohibited, except outdoor advertising which advertises activities
conducted on the property upon which it is located and outdoor advertising
which advertises the sale or lease of property upon which it is located. (I.C.
8-23-20 and INDOT Outdoor Advertising Control Manual 03-02-2010 or successor
statute or manual, manual available for review at the Town Hall).
   (B)   The placement of political signs that advertise for the election to
any type of government office or a political cause also shall be allowed but
must adhere to all state election laws (I.C. 8-23-20 and INDOT Outdoor
Advertising Control Manual 03-02-2010 or successor statute or manual, manual
available for review at the Town Hall). Signs shall be permitted in town
easement areas if permission has been received by property owner whom property
adjoins easement.
   (C)   The following signs shall not be permitted:
      (1)   Signs which are illegal under the federal and state laws and rules
(I.C. 8-23-20 and INDOT Outdoor Advertising Control Manual 03-02-2010 or
successor statute or manual, manual available for review at the Town Hall);
      (2)   Signs not securely affixed to a substantial permanent structure;
      (3)   Signs which attempt, or appear to attempt to regulate, warn or
direct the movement of traffic, or which interfere with, or imitate, or
resemble any official traffic sign, signal or device;
      (4)   Signs which are not consistent with any law or promulgated rule
prohibiting such a sign. (I.C. 8-23-20 and INDOT Outdoor Advertising Control
Manual 03-02-2010 or successor statute or manual, manual available for review
at the Town Hall);
      (5)   Signs which are erected or maintained upon trees painted or drawn
upon rocks or other natural features;
      (6)   Signs which are located in such a manner as to obscure or otherwise
physically interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, signal
or device, or obstruct or physically interfere with a driver of a vehicle view
of approaching, merging or intersecting traffic;
      (7)   Signs which move or have any animated or moving parts;
      (8)   Signs which contain, include or are illuminated by any flashing,
intermittent or moving light, or lights, or signs which uses various types of
evolving technology such as lights, glow cubes, rotating slats, moving
reflective discs and the like, except those giving public service information
such as time, date, temperature, weather or similar information;
      (9)   Signs of a pornographic nature that depict nude, or partially clad
human bodies of adults or children, male or female genitals, or breast and
language that would be considered pornographic, offensive, lewd or
inappropriate to be viewed by minors;
      (10)   It shall be the responsibility of the sign’s owner to ensure that
all outdoor advertising devices are erected and maintained in good condition;
that is not decayed, insecure, lacking part or portion thereof, is safe and
message is not unsightly;
      (11)   Nonconforming signs:
         (a)   A nonconforming sign is a sign which was lawfully erected but
does not comply with the provisions of this section. Signs must have been
physically in existence at the time this section becomes effective after
passage by the Town Council and publication in the New Albany Tribune.
         (b)   The sign must remain substantially the same as it was on the
date the sign became nonconforming. Reasonable repair and maintenance is
allowed.
      (12)   Snipe signs are prohibited. The town shall contact those which
violate any provision of this division (C)(12) by mail, to include a copy of
the regulation and giving the violator 72 hours to bring the sign(s) in to
compliance. If the sign has already been confiscated by the town, violators
will be required to pick up the prohibited sign(s) from the town within 72
hours or be subject to the penalties set forth in §
110.99.
   (D)   Enforcement of this section shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-1, I.C.
36-1-6-2, I.C. 36-1-6-3 or I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor statute if said
statute is repealed.
   (E)   Any unlawful provision found in this section shall not effect the
remaining provision.
(Ord. 2010-T-068, passed 12-13-2010; Ord. 2019-TO-008, passed 4-8-2019)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 [RESERVED].
§ 110.04 UNLICENSED CHILDCARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   If it has reason to believe that a contagious and/or communicable
disease and/or illness is present in an unlicensed child care home, the County
Health Department may require any individual operating an unlicensed child care
home to cease all operations until the unlicensed child care home has been
properly cleaned, sanitized and disinfected to eliminate the possibility of
spreading the disease.
   (B)   The County Health Department may require any individual operating an
unlicensed child care home to hire professionals, who are properly trained in
the eradication of contagious and/or communicable diseases, to clean, sanitize
and disinfect the entire premises of the child care home if any child for whom
care is provided at the home is found to have any contagious and/or
communicable disease or illness.
   (C)   The County Health Department may require any individual operating an
unlicensed child care home to provide proof of immunizations for each child for
whom care is provided.
   (D)   In the event that any individual and/or unlicensed child care home
fails to comply with an order of the County Health Department and/or the
provisions of this section, the County Health Department may issue an order
requiring the unlicensed child care home to immediately cease all operations
until the individual and/or unlicensed child care home comes into compliance.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit, in any way, the
authority and powers granted to the County Health Department in I.C. 16-20-1-
1 et seq.
(Ord. 2009-T-015, passed 4-27-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 PUBLIC DANCE HALLS LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any corporation, partnership or person to
establish and maintain or operate a public dance hall or place where public
dances are held within the corporate limits of the town, unless such
corporation, partnership or person shall first obtain a license therefor from
said town so to do.
   (B)   Any corporation, partnership or person desiring to obtain such license
shall apply to the Clerk-Treasurer of said town therefor in writing, stating
location, place of paid public dance hall or place where public dances are
given and shall pay to said Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $500 for said license
and thereupon, said Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license for 12 months from
the date of said application and said license shall be signed by said Clerk-
Treasurer and the corporate seal of said town attached thereto.
(Ord. passed 8-1-1936) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any violations of §
110.01(F) shall be subject to a $50 fine per day until privacy fence as a
buffer zone is erected, plus attorney fees and court cost.
      (2)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be sought
against person or person’s responsible real estate in accordance with I.C. 36-
1-6-2.
      (3)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
      (4)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of §
110.01, nor shall any action be taken by the town to bring the real property
into compliance with §
110.01, unless all persons holding a substantial interest in the property are
given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance.
   (C)   (1)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be
sought against person or person’s responsible real estate, plus attorney fees
and court cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2.
      (2)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, plus attorney fees
and court cost or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
      (3)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of §
110.02, nor shall any action be taken by the town to bring the sign into
compliance with §
110.02, unless all persons holding a substantial interest in the property are
given a reasonable opportunity to bring the sign into compliance.
      (4)   The town shall give all persons holding a substantial interest in
any real property, which is not in compliance with §
110.02 ten days’ written notice to correct the condition and bring the property
into compliance. Such notice may be in person by any member of the Town
Marshal’s Department, or by mailing it by registered or certified mail with
return receipt requested.
      (5)   For each day any person or entity shall be in violation of §
110.02 after the ten-day period set forth, said person shall be fined an amount
not less than $50 per day, plus attorney fees and court cost.
      (6)   Furthermore, if the condition of said real estate has not been
corrected within 30 days after the aforesaid ten-day notice period, the town
may cause to be certified to the County Auditor as a charge against the taxes
due and payable to the County Treasurer in the following year together with
attorney fees and court cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor
statute, if said statute is repealed.
   (D)   Any such corporation, partnership or person who shall violate any of
the provisions of §
110.05 shall forfeit and pay to said town, the sum of $50 for each and every
such offense and every day of the maintaining or operating of such public dance
hall or place where public dances are given by any such corporation,
partnership or person without being licensed as herein provided shall be and
constitutes a separate offense under this division (D), same to be assessed by
any competent court having jurisdiction thereof.
(Ord. passed 8-1-1936; Ord. 2010-T-048, passed 8-16-2010; Ord. 2010-T-068,
passed 12-13-2010)
CHAPTER 111: YARD SALES, GARAGE SALES AND AUCTION SALES
Section
Yard Sales, Moving Sales and Garage Sales
   
111.01   Moving sales
   
111.02   Yard sales, garage sales
Auction Sales
   
111.15   Auction house
 
   
111.99   Penalty
YARD SALES, MOVING SALES AND GARAGE SALES
§ 111.01 MOVING SALES.
   (A)   A MOVING SALE shall be a sale that is required by a resident because
they are relocating to a different residence within or outside of the town
corporate limits. A MOVING SALE shall be a sale that the person or persons
conducting such sale do not have a retail merchant certificate displayed for
that business and does not collect state sales taxes at the location of the
sale. Person or persons who have a retail merchant certificate displayed and
collect state sales taxes shall not be in violation with this section.
   (B)   A permit is not required to have a moving sale within the corporate
limits of the town. However, contacting the Town Marshal’s Department is
required. Information to be provided to the Town Marshal’s Department is as
follows:
      (1)   Marshal Department to be notified a minimum of one week prior to
moving sale;
      (2)   Location; and
      (3)   Date of moving sale.
   (C)   Moving sales shall be allowed for a period of time not to exceed 60
continuous days from the start of the moving sale. Person or persons can
request an extension beyond 60 days by requesting to speak before the Town
Council at its monthly meeting to request such extension. A request shall be
made in writing no later than one week prior to meeting by contacting the Town
Water Clerk.
   (D)   Moving sale hours are limited to not before 9:00 a.m. and no later
than 6:00 p.m.
   (E)   No blocking of public streets, roadways or alleyways will be
permitted.
   (F)   Failure to contact the Town Marshal’s Department will result in the
following;
      (1)   The moving sale can be closed at the discretion of the Town Marshal
or the Town Council President; and/or
      (2)   If failure to comply with the closing of the moving sale will
require Town Marshal’s Department to obtain a court order to close the moving
sale.
(Ord. 2010-T-055, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 YARD SALES, GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   A YARD SALE or GARAGE SALE shall be a sale that the person or persons
conducting such sale do not have a retail merchant certificate displayed for
that business and does not collect state sales taxes at the location of the
sale. Person or persons who have a retail merchant certificate displayed and do
collect state sales taxes shall not be in violation with this section.
   (B)   A permit is not required to have yard sales or garage sale within the
corporate limits of the town. However contacting the Town Marshal’s Department
is required. Information to be provided to the Town Marshal’s Department is as
follows:
      (1)   Marshal Department to be notified a minimum of one week prior to
yard sale or garage sale;
      (2)   Location; and
      (3)   Date of yard sale or garage sale.
   (C)    Only one yard sale or garage sale will be allowed per month on a
consecutive Friday, Saturday, and/or Sunday.
   (D)   Yard sales or garage sales hours are limited to not before 9:00 a.m.
and no later than 6:00 p.m.
   (E)   Yard sales or garage sales days are limited to one consecutive Friday,
Saturday and/or Sunday per month. Unless the day is a holiday recognized by the
State of Indiana, then a yard sale and garage sale can be held on the holiday
recognized by the State of Indiana.
   (F)   No blocking of public streets, roadways or alleyways will be
permitted.
(Ord. 2010-T-055, passed 8-30-2010; Ord. 2022-TO-13, passed 9-12-2022)
Penalty, see §
111.99
AUCTION SALES
§ 111.15 AUCTION HOUSE.
   (A)   AUCTION HOUSE shall be a facility that the person or persons
conducting such auction sale have a retail merchant certificate displayed for
that business and collects state sales taxes at the location of the auction
sale. Person or persons who have a retail merchant’s certificate displayed and
collect state sales taxes shall be considered an auction house facility and not
be in violation of this section.
   (B)   Auction houses that are in a permanent location with their own parking
facilities with in the corporate limits of the town are exempted from this
section.
   (C)   A permit is not required to have an auction sale within the corporate
limits of the town. However, contacting the Town Marshal’s Department is
required. Information to be provided to the Town Marshal’s Department is as
follows:
      (1)   Marshal Department to be notified a minimum of one week prior to
sale;
      (2)   Location;
      (3)   Date of auction sale; and
      (4)   Time of auction sale.
   (D)   A verbal waiver may be obtained from the Town Marshal’s Department to
allow parking to block streets, roadways and alleyways in the immediate auction
area. This waiver does not apply to U.S. 150. The auction house conducting the
auction shall provide security personnel at the auction house expense (off duty
law enforcement members from the county but preferably from the Town Marshal’s
Department) to barricade streets, roadways or alleyways and direct traffic
during the auction sale if this verbal waiver has been obtained.
   (E)   After passing of this section, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall mail a
copy of the signed Ord. 2010-T-055 (this section) to local auction houses.
   (F)   Enforcement of this section shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-3 or I.C.
36-1-6-4, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
   (G)   Any unlawful provision found in this section shall not effect the
remaining provision.
(Ord. 2010-T-055, passed 8-30-2010)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A fine of $50 per day will occur for each day the moving sale (§
111.01) remains open after Marshal issuing the citation to close while
obtaining a court order to close the moving sale. If levied fines are not paid
within 30 days, then a lien will be sought against person’s property, plus
attorney fees and court cost who is the operator of the moving sale in
accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-1, 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-3 and 36-1-6-4.
   (C)   Failure to contact the Town Marshal’s Department (per § 111.02) will
result in the following.
      (1)   First offense: a warning citation will be issued by the Town
Marshal’s Department.
      (2)   Second offense and the like: a citation for the amount of $50 will
be issued and the yard sale or garage sale will be closed.
      (3)   If failure to comply with the closing of the yard sale or garage
sale will require Town Marshal’s Department to obtain a court order to close
the yard sale or garage sale.
      (4)   A fine of $50 per day will occur for each day the yard sale or
garage sale remains open after Marshal issuing the citation while obtaining a
court order to close the yard sale or garage sale.
      (5)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days then a lien will be
sought against person’s property plus attorney fees and court cost who is the
operator of the yard sale or garage sale in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-1, 36-
1-6-2, 36-1-6-3 and 36-1-6-4.
   (D)   (1)   Failure to contact the Town Marshal’s Department (per §
111.15) will result in the following.
         (a)   First offense: a warning citation will be issued by the Town
Marshal’s Department.
         (b)   Second offense and the like; a citation for the amount of $50
will be issued and the auction sale will be closed.
      (2)   If failure to comply with the closing of the auction sale will
require Town Marshal’s Department to obtain a court order to close auction
sale.
      (3)   A fine of $50 per day will occur for each day the auction sale
remains open after Marshal issuing the citation while obtaining a court order
to close the auction sale.
      (4)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, then a lien will be
sought against person’s property plus attorney fees and court cost who is the
owner of the auction house who is conducting the auction sale in accordance
with I.C. 36-1-6-1, 36-1-6-2, 36-1-6-3 and 36-1-6-4.
      (5)   (a)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be
sought against person or person’s responsible real estate in accordance with
I.C. 36-1-6-2.
         (b)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-
1-6-3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
         (c)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of §
111.15, nor shall any action be taken by the town to bring the real property
into compliance with §
111.15, unless all persons holding a substantial interest in the property are
given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance.
         (d)   Furthermore, if fines have not been paid within 30 days after
the aforesaid ten, the town may cause to be certified to the County Auditor as
a charge against the taxes due and payable to the County Treasurer in the
following year in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor statute, if said
statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-T-055, passed 8-30-2010)
CHAPTER 112: TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING
Section
   
112.01   Sanitary operation of tattoo parlors
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Operator training responsibilities
   
112.04   Operator responsibilities
   
112.05   Operator policies
   
112.06   Tattoo artist and body piercer minimum training and certification
requirements
   
112.07   Patron records
   
112.08   Illness
   
112.09   Handwashing
   
112.10   Personal protective equipment
   
112.11   Tattooing equipment
   
112.12   Needles
   
112.13   Reusable equipment
   
112.14   Dyes or pigments
   
112.15   Work environment
   
112.16   Infectious waste containment
   
112.17   Treatment and transport of infectious waste
   
112.18   Permits and licenses
   
112.19   Inspections
   
112.20   Procedures when violations are noted
   
112.21   Permit or license suspension/revocation
   
112.22   Other permit or license revocation, suspension and immediate closure
orders
   
112.23   Hearing
   
112.24   Appeal
   
112.25   Enforcement
   
112.26   Violations
   
112.27   Prohibited acts
   
112.28   Injunction
   
112.29   Expense
   
112.30   Cumulative
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 SANITARY OPERATION OF TATTOO PARLORS.
   All places, individuals and businesses that offer to affix any type of
permanent tattoo or body piercing to a person shall be regulated by this
chapter and shall maintain the premises in which tattoos or body piercings are
performed and equipment used in the tattoo or body piercing process in a
sanitary manner.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOOD. Human blood.
   BLOOD BORNE PATHOGENS. Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   HBV: hepatitis B virus;
      (2)   HC: hepatitis C virus; and
      (3)   HIV: human immunodeficiency virus.
   BODY PIERCER. Any person who performs body piercing on an individual.
   BODY PIERCING. The perforation of any human body part other than ear lobe
for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration or for some other
nonmedical purpose.
   CLEANED. Removal of all visible dust, soil or any other foreign material.
   CONTAMINATED. The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
OPIM (other potentially infectious materials) on an item or surface.
   DECONTAMINATED.  The use of physical or chemical. To remove, inactivate or
destroy blood borne pathogens on a surface or item which does not require
sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting
infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use
or disposal.
   DEPARTMENT. The Floyd County Health Department.
   FACILITY. A tattoo parlor or a body piercing facility, or both, which is any
room or space that is mobile or stationary where tattooing or body piercing, or
both, is provided or where the business of tattooing or body piercing, or both,
is conducted.
   HBV. The hepatitis B virus.
   HCV. The hepatitis C virus.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed Health Officer as set forth in I.A.C. 16-
20-2-16. The County Health Officer or designee shall be designated as the
official in charge of enforcing this chapter. The HEALTH OFFICER may designate
a representative in the Health Department to perform those duties and
responsibilities of the HEALTH OFFICER.
   HIGH LEVEL DISINFECTION. A process that destroys all micro-organisms, with
the exception of high numbers of bacterial spores.
   HIV. The human immunodeficiency virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Waste that epidemiologic evidence indicates is capable of
transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes, but
is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps;
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biologicals
and infectious agent stock;
      (3)   Pathological waste;
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form;
      (5)   Carcasses, body parts, blood and body fluids in liquid and semi-
liquid form, and bedding of laboratory animals; and
      (6)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   INTERMEDIATE LEVEL DISINFECTION. A process that inactivates the following
but does not necessarily kill bacterial spores:
      (1)   Mycobacterium tuberculosis;
      (2)   Vegetative bacteria;
      (3)   Most viruses; and
      (4)   Most fungi.
   MOBILE FACILITY. A tattoo parlor or a body piercing facility, or both, which
is any moveable room or space where tattooing or body piercing, or both, is
provided or where the business of tattooing or body piercing, or both, is
conducted.
   OPERATOR. Any person who controls, operates, manages or owns any facility.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS or OPIM. The following:
      (1)   Human body fluids as follows:
         (a)   Semen;
         (b)   Vaginal secretions;
         (c)   Cerebrospinal fluid;
         (d)   Synovial fluid;
         (e)   Pleural fluid;
         (f)   Pericardial fluid;
         (g)   Peritoneal fluid;
         (h)   Amniotic fluid;
         (I)   Saliva in dental procedures;
         (j)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood; and
         (k)   All body fluids where it is difficult or impossible to
differentiate between body fluids.
      (2)   Any unfixed tissue or organ, other than intact skin, from a human,
living or dead; and/or
      (3)   HIV-containing cell or tissue cultures, and HIV- or HBV-containing
culture medium or other solutions; and blood, organs or other tissues from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
   PARENTERAL. Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needle sticks, human bites, cuts or abrasions.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   SECURE AREA. An area that is designated and maintained to prevent the entry
of unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS. Blood, blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE. The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endospores.
   STORE. The containment of infectious waste in such a manner as not to
constitute collection, treatment, transport or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other instruments;
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure or symbol done by scarring upon
or under the skin; or
      (3)   Any piercing of the mucous membranes or the skin through which
needles or other items are inserted for temporary or permanent placement upon a
person.
   TATTOO ARTIST. Any person who provides a tattoo to an individual or who
performs any type of piercing of the mucus membranes or the skin through which
needles or other objects are inserted for temporary or permanent placement.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, HCV and other blood borne pathogens.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.03 OPERATOR TRAINING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   An individual or entity that is an operator shall comply with the following
training responsibilities:
   (A)   Ensure that the training described in the State Occupational Safety
and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29
C.F.R. § 1910.1030) is provided to all tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility or anyone acting on behalf of the facility, who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral
contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is provided
to all tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone employed by the facility or
anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably anticipated risk
for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM; and
   (C)   Ensure that a record of training described in divisions (A) and (B)
above is maintained, as required under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R.
1910.1030) of an individual’s participation in the training that is provided.
The record shall be made available to the department for inspection upon
request.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The operator shall ensure that tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral
contact with blood are provided personal protective equipment and expendables
needed to implement the precautions required by this rule and the State
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard
(as found in 29 C.F.R. 1910.1030).
   (B)   The operator shall require tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral
contact with blood to provide evidence of compliance with the universal
precautions education requirements contained in §
112.06.
   (C)   The operator shall display a description of compliance with the
requirements contained in division (D) below.
   (D)   The operator shall display written materials prepared or approved by
the department explaining universal precautions and patrons’ rights under this
rule. These materials shall include information on how to report violations of
universal precautions and shall include information regarding the department’s
duties to investigate.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 OPERATOR POLICIES.
   The operator shall develop a written policy in compliance with this rule and
the requirements of the State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s
Bloodborne Pathogen Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. 1910.1030) that:
   (A)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing tattooing or
body piercing and any activity or duty that includes any reasonably anticipated
skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Requires disinfection or sterilization of contaminated reusable items;
   (C)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste;
   (D)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if warranted,
for failure to use universal precautions and/or handle infectious waste safely;
and
   (E)   Prohibiting of medical procedures; tongue splitting, tattoo removal
and uses of anesthesia.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 TATTOO ARTIST AND BODY PIERCER MINIMUM TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone employed by the facility and
anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably anticipated risk
for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM shall
complete the training program that is required under the requirements of the
State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogen
Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. 1910.1030). The programs under this section
shall be as follows:
      (1)   A blood borne pathogen training session provided by the operator
meeting the requirements under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R.
1910.1030); and
      (2)   Any bloodborne pathogen continuing education program accredited by
a health care licensing entity.
   (B)   All tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone employed by the facility and
anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably anticipated risk
for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM must be
trained in the facility’s policies on the handling of infectious waste.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PATRON RECORDS.
   (A)   Records of each patron shall be maintained for two years.
   (B)   The record shall include the following:
      (1)   Patron’s name;
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   Age: age must be verified by two items of identification, one of
which must be a valid government issued identification;
      (4)   Date of the tattoo or body piercing;
      (5)   Design of the tattoo or body piercing;
      (6)   Location of the tattoo or body piercing on the patron’s body;
      (7)   The name of the tattoo artist or body piercer who performed the
work; and
      (8)   Jewelry or other decoration used.
   (C)   No person shall tattoo any person under the age of 18 years, except in
the presence of and with the written permission of a properly identified parent
or legal guardian of such person, Under no circumstances shall any person
tattoo or body pierce a person under the age of 16. A person providing tattoo
or body piercing services shall conspicuously post a notice stating that it is
illegal to tattoo or body pierce any person under the age of 18 without the
parent or legal guardian’s consent and without the parent or legal guardian
present and that it is illegal to ever tattoo or body pierce any person under
the age of 16 years old.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ILLNESS.
   Tattoo artists or body piercers who are experiencing symptoms of acute
disease that include, but are not limited to, the following shall refrain from
providing tattoos or body piercing:
   (A)   Diarrhea;
   (B)   Vomiting;
   (C)   Fever;
   (D)   Rash;
   (E)   Productive cough;
   (F)   Jaundice; or
   (G)   Draining (or open) skin infections, boils, impetigo or scabies.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 HANDWASHING.
   (A)   Handwashing facilities shall be readily accessible in the each work
station where tattooing or body piercing is provided.
   (B)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately before
putting on gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal protective
equipment.
   (C)   Only single use towels shall be used.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.10 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Appropriate personal protective equipment shall be worn as follows.
   (A)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM.
   (B)   Masks, in combination with eye protection devices such as goggles or
glasses with a solid side shield or chin-length face shield, shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter or droplets of blood or OPIM may be
generated and eye, nose or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Disposable gloves, such as surgical or examination type, shall worn
during the tattooing or body piercing process. Gloves shall be changed and
properly disposed of each time there is an interruption in the application of
the tattoo or body piercing, when the gloves become torn or punctured or
whenever the ability to function as a barrier is compromised. Disposable gloves
shall not be reused.
   (D)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces and
equipment.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 TATTOOING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Only single use razors shall be used to shave the area to be tattooed.
   (B)   All stencils shall be properly disposed of after a single use.
   (C)   If the design is drawn directly onto the skin, it shall be applied
with a single use article only.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 NEEDLES.
   (A)   Needles shall be individually packaged and sterilized prior to use.
   (B)   Needles shall be single use only.
   (C)   Needles shall be discarded in sharps containers immediately after use.
   (D)   Contaminated needles shall not be bent or broken or otherwise
manipulated by hand.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 REUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Heating procedures capable of sterilization must be used when heat
stable, nondisposable equipment is sterilized.
   (B)   Equipment that is to be sterilized shall be put in single-use
packaging.
   (C)   Records must be maintained to document the following:
      (1)   Duration of sterilization technique;
      (2)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a biological
indicator, is performed monthly; and
      (3)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner’s manual and
proof is available that the owner’s manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
   (D)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in a
manner that requires any person to reach by hand into the containers where
these sharp items have been placed.
   (E)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be:
      (1)   Placed in puncture-resistant containers which are:
         (a)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
         (b)   Leak-proof on both sides and bottom.
      (2)   Stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into the
container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to sterilization.
   (F)   Contaminated reusable equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior to
sterilization or disinfection.
   (G)   Any reusable contaminated equipment that comes into direct contact, or
is likely to come into direct contract, with an instrument that penetrates the
skin other than a piercing gun shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized
prior to use.
   (H)   All sterilized equipment shall not be removed from wrappers or
sterilizer packaging until immediately prior to use.
   (I)   Any reusable equipment that comes into contact with mucus membranes
shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized prior to use.
   (J)   Piercing guns shall be cleaned and undergo, at a minimum, high level
disinfection after each use and whenever visibly contaminated.
   (K)   All reusable equipment that has contact with intact skin shall
undergo, at a minimum, intermediate level disinfection.
   (L)   All other equipment used during the tattooing or body piercing
procedure shall be single use, including corks.
   (M)   All body piercers and tattoo artists shall comply with all other
equipment manufacturer’s recommendations.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 DYES OR PIGMENTS.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments in tattooing shall be from professional suppliers
specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by tattoo artists, only non-
toxic sterile materials shall be used. Single use or individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean, single-use containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single use or
individual containers shall be discarded along with the container.
   (D)   Any object placed under the skin shall be sterile.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.15 WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   No tattooing or body piercing shall be conducted in any room used as
living quarters or in any room that opens directly into living or sleeping
quarters. All workstations shall be at least ten feet by ten feet and have
working sink area to prevent cross contamination.
   (B)   All facilities shall have a dry storage and sterilization room
separate from work areas and not accessible by public. Each sterilization room
shall have adequate room for proper sterilization technique that shall include
separation of contaminated and sterilized storage area.
   (C)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where tattooing or body
piercing is being conducted. This exclusion does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police officers; and
      (2)   Guide dogs accompanying the following:
         (a)   Blind persons;
         (b)   Partially blind persons;
         (c)   Physically disabled persons;
         (d)   Guide dog trainers; and
         (e)   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (D)   Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics or handling contact
lenses shall not be allowed in work areas where there is a likelihood of
exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   Food and drink shall not be kept in areas where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (F)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
disinfected after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (G)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization, that
have been contaminated by blood, shall be cleaned and disinfected.
   (H)   All work surfaces shall be:
      (1)   Nonabsorbent;
      (2)   Easily cleanable;
      (3)   Smooth; and
      (4)   Free of:
         (a)   Breaks;
         (b)   Open seams;
         (c)   Cracks;
         (d)   Chips;
         (e)   Pits; and
         (f)   Similar imperfections.
   (I)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   A hospital grade, tuberculocidal Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; or
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite, 0.5% concentration, by volume (common
household bleach is 10% concentration in water); the solution shall be dated
and shall not be used if it is more than 24 hours old.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 INFECTIOUS WASTE CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   Contaminated disposable needles or instruments shall be stored in
leak-resistant, puncture-resistant containers, tightly sealed to prevent
expulsion, labeled with the biohazard symbol, and effectively treated in
accordance with this rule prior to being stored in an unsecured area and sent
for final disposal.
   (B)   Infectious wastes that are contaminated sharps or objects that could
potentially become contaminated sharps shall be placed in containers that:
      (1)   Shall be impervious to moisture;
      (2)   Shall be of sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
      (3)   Shall be secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
      (4)   Shall be labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
      (5)   Shall be effectively treated in accordance with this rule prior to
being placed in an unsecured area and sent for final disposal.
   (C)   If infectious waste is stored prior to final disposal, all persons
subject to this rule shall store infectious waste in a secure area that:
      (1)   Is locked or otherwise secured to eliminate access by or exposure
to the general public;
      (2)   Affords protection from adverse environmental conditions and
vermin; and
      (3)   Has a prominently displayed biohazard symbol.
   (D)   Infectious waste shall be stored in a manner that preserves the
integrity of the container and is not conducive to rapid microbial growth and
putrefaction.
   (E)   Disinfect reusable containers for infectious waste each time that they
are emptied unless the surfaces of the reusable containers have been protected
from contamination by disposable liners, bags or other devices that are removed
with the infectious waste.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 TREATMENT AND TRANSPORT OF INFECTIOUS WASTE.
   (A)   All operators shall ensure that infectious waste is either treated on-
site in accordance with this rule or transported off-site for treatment in
accordance with this rule.
   (B)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities of
infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste
involved, and is carried out in a manner consistent with this rule. Effective
treatment may include:
      (1)   Incineration in an incinerator designed to accommodate infectious
waste;
      (2)   Steam sterilization;
      (3)   Chemical disinfection under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
      (4)   Thermal inactivation;
      (5)   Irradiation; or
      (6)   Discharge in a sanitary sewer or septic system that is properly
installed and operating in accordance with state and local laws.
   (C)   All persons subject to this rule shall:
      (1)   Transport infectious waste in a manner that reasonably protects
waste haulers and the public from contracting a dangerous communicable disease;
and
      (2)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this rule
before it is compacted.
   (D)   The operator shall ensure that infectious waste, effectively treated
or not, is transported off-site in compliance with 410 I.A.C. 1-3.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18 PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   (A)   Business. Each tattoo/body piercing facility operation shall obtain a
permit from the County Health Department. The permit shall provide the name and
address of the owner of the business and the name and address of each tattoo
artist and body piercer employed at each location. The cost for this permit
shall be $300 and shall not be transferable. The permit expires on December 31
of each year. Should an establishment fail to obtain the permit prior to the
opening of a tattoo and/or body piercing facility or should any permittee fail
to renew his or her permit on or before the expiration date of December 31,
then said fee shall be annual plus 50% of the annual fee set forth above for
the tattoo and/or body piercing facility. Any holder of a permit shall be
subject to inspection as set forth herein. The County Health Department shall
provide the appropriate forms for this permit. Said permit shall be posted at
the facility in the area where the tattoo or body piercing services are
performed and shall be clearly visible to the public. Said permit will only
license the permanent establishment whose address appears on the permit.
Businesses wanting to conduct a tattoo event off-site must obtain a temporary
event permit.
   (B)   Temporary facility. Each temporary tattoo/body piercing facility
operation shall obtain a permit from the County Health Department. The permit
shall provide the name and address of the owner of the business and the name
and address of each tattoo artist and body piercer operating at each location.
The cost of this permit shall be $180 and shall not be transferable. The permit
expires on December 31 of each year. Should an establishment fail to obtain the
permit prior to the opening of a mobile tattoo and/or body piercing facility or
should any licensee fail to renew his or her license on or before the
expiration date of December 31, then said fee shall be annual plus 50% of the
annual fee set forth above for the tattoo and/or body piercing facility. Any
holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection as set forth herein. The
County Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms for this permit.
Said permit shall be posted at the mobile facility in the area where the tattoo
or body piercing services are performed and shall be clearly visible to the
public. In addition, the date, time and location of the event where the mobile
facility will be used shall be submitted at least business days prior to the
start time of the event to the County Health Department.
   (C)   Tattoo artist or body piercer. Every person that desires to perform
any tattoo or body piercing shall obtain a tattoo artist license, body piercer
license or a tattoo artist-body piercer license from the County Health
Department. Each applicant must be at least 18 years of age. This license must
be obtained before any tattoos are affixed or body piercing done to any person
and after the requisite training. The applicant must satisfy the minimum
requirements as set forth herein in §
112.07. The cost of said license shall be $50 and shall not be transferable.
The license expires on December 31 of each year. Should a tattoo artist or body
piercer fail to obtain the license prior to performing any tattoo or body
piercing or should any licensee fail to renew his or her license on or before
the expiration date of December 31, then said fee shall be annual plus 50% of
the annual fee set forth above for the tattoo artist or body piercer. Any
holder of a license shall be subject to inspection as set forth herein. The
County Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms for this license.
Said licenses shall be posted at the facility in the place where the tattoos or
body piercing are performed and shall be clearly visible to the public
   (D)   Owner/operator. In the event that a tattoo/body piercing facility is a
sole proprietorship and the owner shall also perform tattooing or body piercing
for their business, the owner shall only be required to obtain a business
permit as described in this section.
   (E)   Guest tattoo artist or body piercer. Every person that desires to
perform any tattoo or body piercing services within the county on a temporary
basis shall obtain a guest tattoo artist license, guest body piercer license or
a guest tattoo artist-body piercer license from the County Health Department.
This license must be obtained before any tattoos are affixed or body piercing
is done to any person and after the required training. The applicant must
satisfy the minimum requirements as set forth herein in §
112.07. The cost of said license shall be $25 for a 30-day license and shall
not be transferable. The permit shall expire 30 days after the date of
issuance. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection as set forth
herein. The County Health Department shall provide the appropriate forms for
this permit. Said permits shall be posted at the facility in the area where the
tattoo or body piercing services are performed and shall be clearly visible to
the public.
   (F)   Pro-rating of fees. In the event that a business, mobile facility,
tattoo artist and/or body piercer shall apply for a permit any time prior to
July 1 of any year, they shall be responsible for the total annual fee as
described in this chapter. In the event that a business, mobile facility,
tattoo artist and/or body piercer shall apply for a permit any time after or on
July 1 of any year, they shall be required to pay one- half of the annual fee,
All permits, however, shall expire on December 31 of the year in which they
were issued.
   (G)   Temporary events. Temporary studios at locations such as fairs,
festivals or flea markets, shall comply with all requirements for a certified
studio in accordance with §§
112.01 through
112.17 in their entirety. The event organizer or studio owner for the event
shall be responsible for ensuring that the event is run in a manner that is
safe for the body piercer, tattoo artist and general public. The event
organizer or studio owner shall provide a list of all participating artist/
piercer at the event and with the County Health Department.
      (1)   This information shall include the following information for each
participating artist/piercer:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Date of birth;
         (c)   Home address;
         (d)   Business name;
         (e)   Business address;
         (f)   Home and work telephone numbers;
         (g)   Email address (if available);
         (h)   Description of procedures to be performed at the event; and
         (i)   Copy of current artist/piercer registration.
      (2)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide a layout of the
event floor to the County Health Department before being granted a permit.
      (3)   Each participant who performs shall bring enough presterilized
instruments and supplies to last the whole event.
      (4)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide a separate
cleaning and sterilization room as a back up for use by participants who have
used all the presterilized instruments and were brought to the event. If used,
the cleaning and sterilization room shall be disinfected at the close of the
event. Presterilized instruments and equipment shall not be reused.
      (5)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide an approved
autoclave that has a negative spore test within 30 days prior to the event.
      (6)   The event coordinator or studio owner shall provide for pick up and
disposal of contaminated waste in accordance with this chapter and
administrative rules.
      (7)   Each artist/piercer at the temporary event must either have an
annual or guest license. In addition to the license, each tattoo/body piercing
facility or workstation at the temporary event shall obtain a permit from the
County Health Department. The permit shall provide the name and address of the
owner of the business and the name and address of each tattoo artist and body
piercer employed at the event. The cost for the temporary event permit shall be
$20 per day, not to exceed $100 for a maximum of 14 consecutive days. All fees
shall be paid prior to the event.
      (8)   Temporary workstations shall meet the following minimum conditions:
         (a)   Be at least ten feet by ten feet and be constructed in a manner
to separate the artist/piercer from the public in such a way as to protect the
procedure area from contamination, and prevent accidental exposure of the
potentially-infectious material created during such procedures;
         (b)   Have a floor and sides that are smooth, nonporous and easy to
clean;
         (c)   Have at least 100 foot-candles of light available at the level
where the tattoo or body piercing is conducted;
         (d)   Be equipped with a hand-washing facility. A hand-wash facility
at the minimum shall consist of liquid antibacterial or antimicrobial soap,
single use paper towels and an insulated five-gallon container with a level-
type spigot. Filled with warm potable water 101 to 120°F, and a bucket to catch
the wastewater. The water container shall be placed at least 30 inches off the
floor to allow for easy use, and shall be filled regularly to ensue an adequate
supply of warm water for hand-washing;
         (e)   Waste water shall be disposed of into a public sewage system, if
available. If a public sewage system is not available, disposal shall be made
into a private system designed, constructed and operated pursuant to the
requirements of Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1; and
         (f)   Shall be supplied with an adequate supply of paper or plastic
barrier film to protect equipment and any other item that must be protected to
prevent cross-contamination.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 INSPECTIONS.
   The County Health Department shall conduct inspections of each and every
facility and mobile facility located in the county. The County Health
Department shall conduct a minimum of two inspections per year for facilities
and one inspection per year for mobile facilities. Additional inspections may
be conducted by the County Health Department as it determines and/or in
response to complaints submitted. The results of the inspections shall be
provided to each operator. Violations noted by the County Health Department
shall be corrected immediately. The Department shall conduct follow-up
inspections to determine compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.20 PROCEDURES WHEN VIOLATIONS ARE NOTED.
   (A)   If, during the inspection of any facility, the Health Officer
discovers the violation of any provision of County Code, 2010 - xxxx, he or she
shall issue a written report listing such violations and the remedial action(s)
to be taken. A copy of said report shall be delivered to the permittee and/or
licensee by hand delivering the report to him or her on-site, or mailing the
notice by certified mail to the address listed by the permittee and/or licensee
at his or her or its mailing address on the permit application.
   (B)   A copy of the written order shall be filed in the records of the
Department after appropriate review by supervisory personnel and then shall be
made available to the public.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.21 PERMIT OR LICENSE SUSPENSION/REVOCATION.
   The Health Officer may order the suspension or revocation of any permit or
license issued for a facility or artist, which order shall include the
prohibition of any further operation for the following reasons:
   (A)   Interference with the Health Officer, or his or her authorized
representatives, in the performance of his or her duties. INTERFERENCE shall be
defined as the process of obstructing, hampering or blocking the Health Officer
in the performance of his or her duties; or
   (B)   As a result of the willful and/or continuous violation of any
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.22 OTHER PERMIT OR LICENSE REVOCATION. SUSPENSION AND IMMEDIATE CLOSURE
ORDERS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in below, no suspension or revocation shall be
ordered by the Health Officer except after a hearing held pursuant to §
112.23(A).
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this division (B), whenever the
Health Officer, or his or her authorized representatives find unsanitary or
other conditions, involving the operation of any facility or artist which, in
his or her reasonable belief, constitutes an imminent health hazard, he or she
shall without notice or hearing, issue and serve a written order upon the
permittee or licensee requiring the immediate closure of its operations, shall
cite the existence of said unsanitary conditions and shall specify the
corrective actions to be taken.
      (1)   Such order shall be effective immediately.
      (2)   Upon written request to the Health Officer, the permittee or
licensee shall be afforded a hearing on the next business day as set forth in §
112.23(A).
      (3)   The Health Officer shall make a reinspection upon the request of
the permittee or licensee. When the Health Officer determines that the
necessary corrective action(s) have been taken, operation of the facility may
be resumed.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.23 HEARING.
   (A)   All hearings required under this section, except those set forth in §
112.24(A), shall be held only upon at least ten days’ written notice to the
permittee or licensee of time, place and nature thereof. The notice of hearing
shall be served upon the permittee or licensee by leaving, or mailing by
certified mail, the notice to the address listed on the permit application as
the permittee’s or licensee’s mailing address or such other address as the
permittee or licensee shall designate in writing to the Health Officer
   (B)   At any hearing required under this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall
be the Health Officer or the Health Officer’s designee. Every person who is a
party to such proceedings shall have the right to submit evidence, to cross-
examine witnesses and to be represented by legal counsel. All such hearings
shall be conducted in an informal manner, but irrelevant, immaterial or unduly
repetitive evidence may be excluded.
   (C)   Upon the conclusion of such hearing, the Hearing Officer shall enter a
final order, subject to the right of appeal in accordance with §
112.24(A).
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.24 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any permittee or licensee aggrieved by any final order of the Health
Officer shall be entitled to a review of the final order before the County
Board of Health (Board) by filing a written request therefor with the Secretary
of the Board within 15 days after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the Board shall
hear the matter de novo in an open hearing after at least ten days’ written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. (The Health Officer and permittee
or licensee may agree to a shorter period of time, if requested by either
party.) The notice shall be issued by the Secretary of the Board to the
permittee or licensee filing the request.
   (C)   The notice of hearing shall be served upon the permittee or licensee
by leaving or mailing by certified mail, the notice to the address listed on
the permit application as the permittee’s or licensee’s mailing address or such
other address as the permittee or licensee shall designate in writing to the
Secretary of the Board.
   (D)   At such hearing, the same rules of procedure shall apply as set forth
in §
112.23(B); provided, that upon written request by the permittee/licensee or the
Health Officer, the Board shall cause the proceedings before it to be recorded
by a reporter employed for such purpose, and the same, together with all papers
and documents filed therein, shall, at the request of either party, be
reproduced by said Board in the form of a transcript, a copy of which shall be
available to any party.
   (E)   The expense of such proceedings shall be charged to the permittee/
licensee who applied for the review, except that copies of transcripts shall be
at the expense of the party requesting the same. At the time the transcript is
requested, the Board may require the permittee/licensee to pay a deposit in an
amount determined by the Board to be necessary to secure such expense(s).
   (F)   The Board shall make written findings of facts and shall enter its
final order or determination of the matter in writing.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter shall be null and void. A violation of an order issued by the Health
Officer or Board shall be considered to be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.26 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Health Officer determines that any facility/artist or any other
person is in willful violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the
Health Officer shall furnish evidence of said willful violation to the
prosecuting attorney of the county or the attorney for the Board who shall seek
all appropriate legal remedies against the person(s) violating said provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.27 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Prohibiting of any medical procedures; but not limited to tongue
splitting, tattoo removal and uses of anesthesia; and
   (B)   Home tattoo parties and mobile tattoo parlor.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.28 INJUNCTION.
   The Health Officer may bring an action for an injunction in the Circuit or
Superior Court of the county, to restrain any person from violating the
provisions of this chapter, to cause such violation(s) to be prevented, abated
or removed.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.29 EXPENSE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable
to the County Health Department for the expense, loss or damage occasioned by
reason of such violation, including reasonable attorney fees and costs.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.30 CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies provided in this section shall be cumulative, and not
exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each violation. Each day
of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be considered to be a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2010-T-018, passed 4-10-2010)
CHAPTER 113: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Mobile Retail Food Establishments
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Rules and regulations
   
113.03   Enforcement
Food Establishments and Bed and Breakfasts
   
113.15   Definitions
   
113.16   Permits
   
113.17   Permit fees
   
113.18   Inspection
   
113.19   Violations
   
113.20   Compliance and enforcement
   
113.21   Appeals
   
113.22   Conflict of interest
 
   
113.99   Penalty
MOBILE RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A store that sells food, beverages,
supplies and has wheels that allows it to be moved from place to place.
(Ord. 2010-T-027, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 113.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted only to operate as a business establishment within areas
listed as Industrial, Light Industrial, Commercial and Mixed Use on the
comprehensive land use map adopted by Res. 2009-R-037;
   (B)   Shall not be allowed to operate within areas listed as Residential on
the comprehensive land use map adopted by Res. 2009-R-037.
   (C)   Mobile retail food establishments shall be a stand alone business and
not attached to any new or existing residential or commercial structure.
   (D)   Mobile retail food establishments shall have a current retail merchant
certificate on file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and posted for public viewing
on their mobile retail food establishment.
   (E)   Mobile retail food establishments shall have a current permit from the
County Health Department on file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and posted for
public viewing on their mobile retail food establishment.
   (F)   Mobile retail food establishments shall post a schedule of days they
shall be operating at a location for public viewing on their unit. They shall
not operate for more than one day without relocating to commissary or service
area in accordance with 410 I.A.C. 7-24-113. After relocating to commissary or
service area for cleaning and inspection, they may return to their previous
location
(Ord. 2010-T-027, passed 8-16-2010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this subchapter shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-3 or I.C.
36-1-6-4, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-T-027, passed 8-16-2010)
FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS AND BED AND BREAKFASTS
§ 113.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An operator-occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
(410 I.A.C. 7-15.5)
   CHIEF FOOD SPECIALIST. The official, as defined below, who has primary
responsibility over bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment
and temporary food establishment inspections.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. A situation in which the private financial interest of
the official, the official’s spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children
and/or unemancipated child, may influence the judgment in the performance of a
public duty. The official may be subject to other ethical requirements in
addition to those set forth herein.
   CRITICAL VIOLATION. A condition that is more likely than other violations to
significantly contribute to food contamination, illness or an environmental
health hazard.
   ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST. An official hired by the Health Officer and
designated as environmental health specialist.
   ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SUPERVISOR. The official who has primary responsibility
over all environmental health specialists.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. A written document that
delineates the formal procedures for following the Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point principles developed by the National Advisory Committee on
Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
(410 I.A.C. 7-24)
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Floyd County Health Department, having jurisdiction
over a bed and breakfast establishments, retail food establishments and
temporary food establishments.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The person, duly appointed, by the Floyd County Health
Department under I.C. 16-20-2-16 having jurisdiction in Floyd County or his or
her duly authorized representative.
   HEARING BOARD. A subcommittee of Floyd County Board of Health comprised of
at least four members of the County Board of Health. The HEARING BOARD shall
not include the Health Officer or any other employee of the Health Department.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any circumstance or situation, which in the opinion
of the Health Officer, presents a serious health risk to the public.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the Health Department that is
completed as the result of the inspection and provided to an operator, as
defined below.
   OFFICIAL. Any Environmental Health Specialist of Floyd County, Indiana.
   OPERATOR. Person, as defined below, who has a primary oversight
responsibility for operation of the establishment through ownership, lease or
contractual agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation,
display, transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. A Health Department action of particular applicability that
determines the legal rights, duties, privileges, immunities or other legal
interests of one or more specific persons, including a permit, as defined
below.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the Health Department that authorizes a
person, as defined below, to be an operator of a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON. Includes, an individual, agent, association, business organization,
cooperative, corporation, entity, firm, institution, municipality or
governmental unit, partnership, proprietorship, school, trust or estate.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. The individual present at a retail food establishment who
is responsible for the operation at the time of inspection.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   An establishment that stores, prepares, packages, serves or
otherwise provides food for human consumption, including:
         (a)   A restaurant;
         (b)   A satellite or catered feeding location;
         (c)   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly or
indirectly to a consumer;
         (d)   A market;
         (e)   A grocery store;
         (f)   A convenience store;
         (g)   An institution;
         (h)   A food bank; or
         (i)   A food service establishment that relinquishes possession of
food to a consumer directly or indirectly through a delivery service, such as
home delivery of grocery orders or restaurant takeout orders, or other delivery
service.
      (2)   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   An element of the establishment, such as a transportation
vehicle that supplies a vending location or satellite feeding location; and
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off the
premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
      (3)   The term RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT does not include the following:
         (a)   An establishment that offers only prepackaged foods that are not
potentially hazardous;
         (b)   A produce stand that only offers whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables;
         (c)   A food processing plant operated under state law;
         (d)   A private home where food is prepared by a member of an
organization that is operating under I.C. 16-42-5-4 and is sold or offered for
human consumption;
         (e)   A bed and breakfast establishment as defined and regulated under
I.C. 16-41-31 and 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5;
         (f)   A private home that receives catered or home-delivered food;
         (g)   A private home which provides childcare and is not subject to
I.C. 12-13-5;
         (h)   A private home which provides residential care and is not
subject to I.C. 12-15 and/or I.C. 23-2-4; or
         (I)   A private home.
(410 I.A.C. 7-24)
   RETAIL FOOD MARKET ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail food establishment, including,
but not limited to, a grocery store, convenience store, salvage store, discount
store, meat market, poultry market, fish market, fresh fruit and vegetable
market, delicatessen, confectionary, candy kitchen, nut store, retail bakery
store or any food establishment, whether fixed or movable, where food is
intended primarily for human consumption off the premises of such RETAIL FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT, is manufactured, produced, stored, prepared, handled, sold or
offered with or without charge; provided, however, that the provisions of this
chapter shall not include meat or poultry slaughterhouses.
   RETAIL FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail food establishment, including,
but not limited to, a restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short-order café,
luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, soda fountain, commissary, drive-in
restaurant, drink establishment, snack bar, food counter, dining room, food
catering facility, seasonal establishments opened for more than six months out
of the year, industrial feeding establishment, private, public or non-profit
organization or institution routinely serving food, and any other eating or
drinking establishment, where food or drink products are prepared, served or
provided primarily for human consumption at such retail food establishment,
with or without charge. The term does not include private homes where food is
prepared or served for individual family consumption.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A retail food establishment that operates for
a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event
or celebration.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2008)
§ 113.16 PERMITS.
   (A)   General. It is unlawful to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment or temporary food establishment in the
county, without first obtaining a permit from the Health Department.
   (B)   Posting. The permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the
bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment or temporary food
establishment.
   (C)   Separate permits. A separate permit shall be required for each bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment or temporary food
establishment operated or to be operated by any person.
   (D)   Permit issuance. A permit may only be issued to persons who comply
with the applicable requirements of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
Any permit issued under this chapter is not transferable. Upon the change of
location of any bed and breakfast, retail food establishment or temporary food
establishment, all existing permits become void. A permit shall not be sold,
assigned, licensed or transferred.
   (E)   Term. Permits issued by the Health Officer shall be valid according to
the following periods.
      (1)   The permit for a retail food establishment or bed and breakfast
establishment shall be for a term of one year. Said permit shall be renewed
annually beginning on July 1 of current year and expiring on June 30 of the
following year.
      (2)   The permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for a term
not to exceed 14 consecutive days. A temporary food establishment permit shall
be for the term of one continuous operation.
   (F)   Permit content. Permits issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the operator to whom the permit is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the Health Officer.
   (G)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
shall submit to the Health Department a written application for a permit on a
form provided by the Health Department (State Form 50033).
   (H)   Content of the application. The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment is owned by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership or other legal entity;
      (3)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (4)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified under division
(H)(e) above such as the zone, district or regional supervisor;
      (5)   The names, titles and addresses of:
         (a)   The person(s) comprising the legal owners of the operator and/or
the person authorized to accept service of process and notices; and
         (b)   The local resident agent of the operator or the person holding
the permit, if one is required for such operator or person;
      (6)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will:
            1.   Comply with this chapter; and
            2.   Allow the Health Department access to the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment, and/or temporary food establishment
and records as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
      (7)   Other information required by the Health Department.
   (I)   Qualification. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and or temporary food establishment and provide
required information; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time of issuance or renewal.
   (J)   Plans requirements.
      (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed
and breakfast establishment, and/or retail food establishment shall submit to
the Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications, in accordance
with State Form 50004 plan review questionnaire for review and approval before:
         (a)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment; or
         (c)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast
establishment, and/or retail food establishment or food operation if the Health
Department determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure
compliance with this section.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment,
and/or retail food establishment shall include the type of operation, type of
food preparation (as specified in Appendix B of the published version of 410
I.A.C. 7-24), and the menu.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
approved by Health Department before a permit hereunder can be issued.
      (4)   A pre-operational inspection must show that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment is built or remodeled in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5.
   (K)   Change of ownership. The Health Department may renew a permit for an
existing bed and breakfast establishment, and/or retail food establishment or
may issue a permit to a new owner of an existing bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment after a properly completed
application is submitted, reviewed and approved, the fees are paid, and an
inspection shows that the establishment is in compliance with this chapter.
   (L)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the Health Department, the operator in order to retain the permit shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the Health
Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the Health Department access to the bed
and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at all reasonable
times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the Health Department including time
frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices, orders,
warnings and other directives issued by the Health Department in regard to the
operator’s bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment or
in response to community emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the Health Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment that is conspicuous to
consumers.
   (M)   Equipment. All equipment installed in a food establishment for use in
the cleansing and bactericidal treatment of utensils, or in the preparation,
storing, handling, cleaning, sanitizing, serving or displaying of any food or
beverage products, shall be of a type conforming with all applicable
requirements with regard to proper holding temperatures, design, construction,
location and materials, as required in 410 I.A.C. 7-24, and as amended
hereafter. The County Health Department may prohibit the further use of any
equipment that fails to meet the requirements above.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2008)
§ 113.17 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment in the county who has not paid the permit fee required to be paid
for the operation of such establishment.
      (1)   Permit fees to be paid for the issuance of a permit under this
chapter for a bed and breakfast establishment, a retail food establishment and/
or a temporary food establishment shall be set by the Health Department, as
provided by the statutes of the state (see I.C. 16-20-1-27), and as set forth
and approved by County Council and County Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   For permits which upon initial issuance will expire in fewer than
180 days from the date thereof, the applicant shall pay one-half of the fees
set forth by the Health Department.
         (a)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the
Health Department.
         (b)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment operated or to be operated by any person.
   (B)   Exemption from permit fees. A not for profit organization that offers
food for sale to the final consumer at an event held for the benefit of the
organization is exempt from the payment of fees. This exemption only applies to
organizations that meet the criteria addressed in I.C. 16-42-5-4. The Health
Officer shall be provided, upon request, proof of an organization’s tax
exemption.
   (C)   Late fees. A late fee: for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the
commencement of operation of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment and for failure to renew a
permit prior to its expiration shall be paid in the amount of 50% of the above
annual fee for such permit, or in such amount as set from time to time by the
County Health Board. Credit for the payment of fees under this chapter is not
transferable or refundable.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2008)
§ 113.18 INSPECTION.
   (A)   General. The Health Department shall inspect a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment bi-annually, or less frequently
if indicated under the risk based assessment method as outlined by the State
Department of Health. The County Board of Health may inspect more frequently if
a risk is posed by any of the following: the establishment has had critical
violations in the last inspection; the establishment serves an at-risk
population; or a consumer complaint or a report of a food-borne illness has
been reported to the Department.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The Health Department shall periodically
inspect throughout its permit period a temporary food establishment that
prepares, sells or serves unpackaged potentially hazardous food and may inspect
a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or serves unpackaged, non-
potentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as hand-washing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, ware-washing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal, and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (C)   Performance and risk-based inspections. Within the parameters for risk
specified above, the Health Department shall prioritize, and conduct more
frequent inspections based upon its assessment of a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment’s history of compliance with
this chapter and the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment’s potential as a vector of food-borne illness by evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance, for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C.
7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or
non-critical;
      (2)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C.
7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are non-
critical;
      (3)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be
valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored and served;
      (5)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation and service;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
   (D)   Application and permit fees. The application for any permit shall be
tendered with the following application fees.
      (1)   Each new retail food establishment shall be required to pay an
application fee of $100 for the review of plans and specifications and for the
initial inspection of such establishment. This fee is in addition to the permit
fee.
      (2)   Permit fees for retail food establishments are payable as follows:
         (a)   Permit fees for retail food market establishments:
            1.   Up to and including 3,000 square feet: $125;
            2.   Three thousand up to and including 20,000 square feet: $175;
            3.   Twenty thousand up to and including 70,000 square feet: $225;
and
            4.   Seventy thousand square feet and above: $275.
         (b)   Permit fees for retail food service establishments:
            1.   One to five employees: $125;
            2.   Six to nine employees: $175;
            3.   Ten to 15 employees: $225;
            4.   Sixteen to 20 employees: $275; and
            5.   Twenty-one or more employees: $325.
         (c)   Permit fees for temporary food establishments: $20 per day, not
to exceed $100, for a maximum of 14 days.
         (d)   Flat rate permit fees:
            1.   Bed and breakfast establishments: $150; and
            2.   Retail food establishments that are seasonal concessions
operated less than six months per year: $125.
   (E)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice. 
      (1)   After the officer or an official presents official credentials and
provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection, the
operator shall allow the Health Department to determine if the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment is in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the
establishment, allowing inspection, and providing information and records
specified in this chapter. Inspections shall be conducted during the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment or temporary food
establishment’s hours of operation and other reasonable times.
      (2)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
      (3)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law. (See I.C. 16-20-1-26.)
(Ord. passed 5-12-2008)
§ 113.19 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the Health
Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and the
notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person in charge, as
required under I.C. 16-20-8-5.
   (B)   Timely correction of critical violations. 
      (1)   Except as specified in division (B)(2) below, an operator shall, at
the time of inspection, correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410
IAC 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and implement corrective actions for a HACCP
plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit;
      (2)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the Health Department may agree to
or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator to
correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations; and
      (3)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation or at the end of the specified
period of time, the Health Department shall verify correction of the violation,
document the information on an inspection report and enter the report in the
Health Department’s records.
   (C)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment. Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of
receipt will not affect the operator’s obligation to correct the violations
noted in the inspection report within the time frames specified. A refusal to
sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the inspection report and
conveyed to the Health Department historical record for the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   (D)   Public information. Except as specified in § 176 (Trade Secrets) of
410 I.A.C. 7-24, the Health Department shall treat the inspection report as a
public document and shall make it available for disclosure to a person who
requests it as provided in law. (See I.C. 16-20-8-6.)
(Ord. passed 5-12-2008)
§ 113.20 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment is denied, the Health Department shall provide the
applicant with a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit suspension. The Health Department may suspend a permit to
operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment if it determines through any inspection, or
examination of records, or other means as specified in this chapter, that an
imminent health hazard exists.
   (C)   Ceasing operation and contacting the Health Department. An operator of
a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary
food establishment shall immediately discontinue operations and notify the
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist because of an
emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or water
service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, onset of an
apparent food-borne illness outbreak, gross unsanitary occurrence or condition,
or other circumstance that may endanger public health. An operator need not
discontinue operations in an area of an establishment that is unaffected by the
imminent health hazard.
   (D)   Resuming operation. If only a portion of a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment is
affected, the operator may continue operations in the unaffected portion,
provided there is no imminent health hazard to such unaffected portion.
Otherwise, the operator must obtain approval from the Health Department before
resuming operations.
   (E)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a
permit may not be issued or may be suspended.
   (F)   Enforcement options. When the Health Officer or an official finds a
critical violation at a retail food establishment, it will be addressed at the
time of the inspection; a follow-up inspection may also be conducted.
      (1)   First follow-up inspection. A letter of warning may be issued when
there are critical or non- critical violations continuing upon the first
follow-up inspection. If a letter of warning is issued, a second follow-up
inspection will be conducted.
      (2)   Second follow-up inspection. 
         (a)   After a second follow-up inspection in which it is determined
that critical or non- critical violations are continuing, one or a combination
of the following measures may be implemented at the discretion of the
Environmental Health Supervisor:
            1.   Letter of warning;
            2.   Informal meeting held in the Health Department offices;
            3.   A meeting held at the establishment by the Health Officer,
Environmental Health Supervisor or Chief Food Specialist; and/or
            4.   Another follow-up inspection.
         (b)   There shall be a fee payable before any second follow-up
inspection in the amount of 50% of the annual permit, or in such amount as set
from time to time by the County Health Board.
      (3)   Third/subsequent follow-up inspection. 
         (a)   Upon a third inspection follow-up inspection, with continuing
critical or non-critical violations, or upon the continued unlawful operation
during an event of imminent health hazard, an enforcement action may be
instituted, and may include one or more of the following:
            1.   Issuance of a notice of violation and order to abate;
            2.   Follow-up inspections conducted as often as necessary to
ensure compliance; and/or
            3.   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense,
request county prosecuting attorney to institute a proceeding in the courts for
enforcement. (See I.C. 16-20-1-25(c)).
         (b)   There shall be a fee payable upon before any third follow-up
inspection or subsequent inspection in the amount of 50% of the annual permit,
or in such amount as set from time to time by the County Health Board.
   (G)   Permit revocation. The Health Department may permanently revoke a
permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment
and/or temporary food establishment if it determines through an inspection and
examination of past and current inspections reports that repeat and habitual
critical violations exist, presenting an imminent health hazard.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2008; Ord. 2011-021, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 113.21 APPEALS.
   (A)   An operator aggrieved by an order is entitled to a review of the final
order before a Hearing Board by filing a written request therefore with the
Health Officer (Secretary of the Board of Health, see I.C. 16-20-1-10). The
written request must be sent by certified mail or by hand delivery to the
Health Officer at 1917 Bono Road, New Albany, Indiana 47150, during regular
hours of operation, and must be received within 15 days after the date such
order is issued. The written request must set forth with specificity the
factual and/or legal grounds for appeal, and only those matters set forth in
the written request may be argued before the Hearing Board.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the Hearing Board
shall hear the matter in an open hearing after at least five days’ written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the state rules of court. (A shorter period of time for hearing may
be requested and granted in the sole discretion of the Chairperson of the Board
of Health, provided that such shorter time must permit compliance with I.C. 5-
14-1.5.)
   (C)   The notice of the hearing date shall be served upon the operator
requesting the review by delivering such notice to the address of the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment or temporary food
establishment listed on the permit application or by facsimile or to such other
address (if within the county), as the operator shall designate in the letter
of request to the Health Officer. Such delivery may be made by leaving the
notice at the required address or by regular U.S. mail.
   (D)   The Hearing Board shall establish the rules of procedure for the
hearing and shall advise the operator of the same prior to the start of the
proceedings. Such rules shall provide that an order may only be supported, in
whole or in part, by a majority decision of the Hearing Board.
   (E)   Within seven days from the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing
Board shall make written findings of facts and conclusions concerning the final
order or determination and shall deliver the same to the operator requesting
the review by delivering the same to the address of the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment or temporary food establishment listed
on the permit application or by facsimile or by hand delivery to such other
address (if within the county), as the operator shall designate in the letter
of request to the Health Officer. Such delivery may be made by leaving the
notice at the required address or by regular U.S. mail.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2008)
§ 113.22 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No Health Department official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner
that is or could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2008)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any violations of §
113.01 through
113.03 shall require the mobile retail food establishment to be closed down by
the Town Marshal’s Department until violations(s) are corrected. If mobile
retail food establishment does not comply, the owner or operator of the mobile
retail establishment shall be subject to a $50 fine per day until violations
are corrected, plus attorney fees and court cost.
      (2)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
      (3)   To operate a mobile retail food establishment is a privilege within
the corporate limits of the town. If the owner or operator of a mobile retail
food establishment repeatedly violates the rules and regulations of §
113.01 through
113.03, they may be banned from operating a mobile retail food establishment
within the corporate limits of the town by a town resolution voted on and
passed by a majority of the Town Council members.
(Ord. 2010-T-027, passed 8-16-2010)
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
114.01   Purpose and findings
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Classifications
   
114.04   Resolution license required
   
114.05   Issuance of resolution license
   
114.06   Fees
   
114.07   Inspection
   
114.08   Expiration of resolution license
   
114.09   Suspension
   
114.10   Revocation
   
114.11   Hearing; resolution license denial, suspension; revocation; appeal
   
114.12   Transfer of resolution license
   
114.13   Hours of operation
   
114.14   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos
   
114.15   Loitering, exterior lighting, visibility and monitoring requirements
   
114.16   Enforcement
   
114.17   Applicability of chapter to existing businesses
   
114.18   Prohibited activities
   
114.19   Scientor required to prove violation or business resolution licensee
liability
   
114.20   Failure of town to meet deadline not to risk applicant/resolution
licensee rights
   
114.21   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
114.22   Conflicting code provisions
   
114.23   Enforcement
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, moral and general
welfare of the citizens of the town, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the town. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material
   (B)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the Town Council, and on findings, interpretations and narrowing constructions
incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 124
S. Ct. 2219 (June 7, 2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535
U.S. 425 (2002); Pap’s AM v. City of Erie, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Kenton
v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini
Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976), Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560
(1991); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); and Schultz v. City of
Cumberland, 26 F. Supp.2d 1128 (W.D. Wise. 1998), affd in part, rev’d in part,
228 F.3d 831 (7th Cir. 2000); Blue Canary Corp. v. City of Milwaukee, 270 F.3d
1156 (7th Cir. 2001); Matney v. County of Kenosha, 86 F.3d 692 (7th Cir. 1996);
Berg v. Health & Hospital Corp., 865 F.2d 797 (1989); DiMa Corp. v. Town of
Halite, 185 F.3d 823 (1999); Graff v. City of Chicago, 9 F.3d 1309 (1993);
North Avenue Novelties, Inc. v. City of Chicago, 88 F.3d 441 (1996); Chulchian
v. City of Indianapolis, 633 F.2d 27 (7th Cir. 1980); Bigg Wolf Discount Video
v. Montgomery County, 256 F. Supp. 2d 385 (D. Md. 2003); County of Cook v.
Renaissance Arcade and Bookstore, 122 Dl. 2d 123 (1988) (including cases cited
therein); World Wide Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d
1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Ben’s Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th
Cir. 2003); People ex rel Deters v. Effingham Retail 27, Inc., No. 04-CH-26
(4th Judicial Circuit, Effingham County, 111., June 13,2005); Annex Books, Inc.
v. City of Indianapolis, No. 1:03-CV-918, Summary Judgment Order, Aug. 27, 2004
and Order Denying Motion to Alter or Amend, Mar. 31, 2005 (S.D. Ind.); Andy’s
Lounge et al. v. City of Gary, No. 2:01-CV-327, Order Granting Summary
Judgment, Mar. 31, 2005 (N.D. Ind.); LLEH, Inc. v. Wichita County, 289 F3d 358
(5th Cir. 2002); World Wide Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368
F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Ben’s Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702
(7th Cir. 2003); Abilene Retail #30, Inc. v. Board of Commissioners, 2005 U.S.
Dist. LEXIS 30491 (D. Kan., Dec. 1, 2005); and based upon reports concerning
secondary effects occurring in and around sexually oriented businesses,
including, but not limited to, Austin, Texas - 1986; Indianapolis, Indiana -
1984; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Houston, Texas - 1983, 1997; Phoenix,
Arizona - 1979, 1995-98; Chattanooga, Tennessee - 1999-2003; Minneapolis,
Minnesota - 1980; Los Angeles, California - 1977; Whittier, California - 1978;
Spokane, Washington - 2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota - 1994; Littleton, Colorado -
2004; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Dallas, Texas - 1997; Greensboro, North
Carolina - 2003; Amarillo, Texas -1977; New York, New York Times Square - 1994;
and the Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group on the Regulation of
Sexually Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota) the Town
Council finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter
and sexual assault and exploitation;
      (2)   Sexually oriented businesses should be separated from sensitive
land uses to minimize the impact of their secondary effects upon such uses, and
should be separated from other sexually oriented businesses, to minimize the
secondary effects associated with such uses and to prevent an unnecessary
concentration of sexually oriented businesses in one area;
      (3)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the town has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects,
which is the town’s rationale for this chapter, exists independent of any
comparative analysis between sexually oriented and non-sexually oriented
businesses. Additionally, the town’s interest in regulating sexually oriented
businesses extends to preventing future secondary effects of either current or
future sexually oriented businesses that may locate in the town. The town finds
that the cases and documentation relied on in this chapter are reasonably
believed to be relevant to said secondary effects; and
      (4)   The following reports:
         (a)   Madison Wisconsin Planning and Zoning Commission Report 02-14-
2011 Concerning sexually oriented businesses and sub-reports mentioned therein;
         (b)   Adult entertainment businesses in Indianapolis 1984 an analysis
and appendixes;
         (c)   Crime-related secondary effects of sexually oriented business
report to the City Attorney City of Los Angles May 6, 2007; and
         (d)   Greenville Comprehensive Land Use Map for 2011-TO-019 hereby are
incorporated by reference and part of this chapter (2011 -TO-019).
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE.  
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as a principal part of its
business, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or
more of the following: books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter,
or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, digital
video discs, slides or other visual representations which are characterized by
their emphasis upon the display of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas.”
      (2)   A PRINCIPAL PART OF ITS BUSINESS means that the commercial
establishment:
         (a)   Has at least 35% of its displayed merchandise which consists of
said items;
         (b)   Has at least 35% of the wholesale value of its displayed
merchandise which consists of said items;
         (c)   Has at least 35% of the retail value of its displayed
merchandise which consists of said items;
         (d)   Derives at least 35% of its revenues from the sale or rental,
for any form of consideration of said items;
         (e)   Maintains a section of at least 35% of its interior business
space for the sale or rental or said items; or
         (f)   Maintains an ADULT ARCADE, which means any place to which the
public is permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are regularly maintained
to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one tune, and where
the images so displayed are characterized by their emphasis upon matter
exhibiting “specified sexual activities” or specified “anatomical areas.”
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club or other
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which
regularly features persons who appear semi-nude.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Any commercial establishment which
regularly offers rooms with a capacity of more than five but less than 50
persons, wherein films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
visual images that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly
presented for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, other photographic reproductions, or live
performances which are characterized by the display of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas;” and which advertises the
availability of such material by means of a sign visible from the public right-
of-way, or by means of any on or off-premises advertising, including, but not
limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly shown to more than
five persons for any form of consideration.
   ADULT SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, premises, structure or other
facility that uses at least 35% of the building, premises, structure or other
facility for commercial activities involving the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an item.
As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually
oriented business by virtue of showing, selling or renting materials rated NC-
17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE and EMPLOYMENT. Any person who performs any service on the
premises of a sexually oriented business, on a full-time, part-time or contract
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise. EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. Include any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
   HEARING BODY. The Town Council of the Town of Greenville, Indiana.
   INFLUENTIAL INTEREST. Any of the following:
      (1)   The actual power to operate the sexually oriented business or
control the operation, management or policies of the sexually oriented business
or legal entity which operates the sexually oriented business;
      (2)   Ownership of a financial interest of 30% or more of a business or
of any class of voting securities of a business; or
      (3)   Holding an office (e.g., president, vice president, secretary,
treasurer, managing member, managing director and the like) in a legal entity
which operates the sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a resolution license to operate a sexually
oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals
listed as an applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business
resolution license, in case of an “employee,” it shall mean the person in whose
name the sexually oriented business employee resolution license has been
issued.
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO OPERATE. To cause to function or to put or keep in a
state of doing business.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of a sexually oriented business who
causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the business
or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall operational
control of the business premises. A person may be found to be operating or
causing to be operated a sexually oriented business whether or not that person
is an owner, part owner or resolution licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorships, partnerships, corporation,
association or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, any trailers,
private walkways and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto,
under the ownership, control or supervision of the licensee, as described in
the application for a business resolution license pursuant to §
114.04.
   REGULARLY. Refers to the consistent and repeated doing of the act so
described.
   SEMI-NUDE or STATE OF SEMI-NUDITY. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breasts
exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard or similar wearing apparel
provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  
      (1)   A place where persons regularly appear in a state of semi-nudity
for money or any form of consideration in order to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other
persons.
      (2)   This definition does not apply to any place where persons appearing
in a state of semi-nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
         (a)   By a college, junior college or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (c)   In a structure:
            1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure
and no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
            2.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must
enroll at least three days in advance of the class.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genital organ or anus or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices
such as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps and physical representations of the
human genital organs. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include
devices primarily intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases
or for preventing pregnancy.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include any
pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic or any establishment primarily dedicated
to providing medical or healthcare products or services, nor shall this
definition be construed to include commercial establishments which do not
restrict access to any portion of their premises by reason of age.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration, physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex when one or more of the persons is semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An “adult bookstore,” an “adult cabaret,” an
“adult mini motion picture theater,” an “adult motel,” an “adult motion picture
theater,” an “adult service establishment,” a “semi-nude model studio,” a
“sexual device shop,” or a “sexual encounter center,” as defined in this
chapter. The term “sexually oriented business” shall also include an “adult
drive-in theater,” an “adult live entertainment arcade,” and an “adult motion
picture arcade”.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic
region; buttock; and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Any of the following specified crimes for which less than five
years elapsed since the date of conviction, or the date of release from
confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date:
         (a)   Rape, sexual assault, public indecency, statutory rape, rape of
a child, sexual exploitation of a minor, indecent exposure;
         (b)   Prostitution, patronizing prostitution, promoting prostitution;
         (c)   Obscenity;
         (d)   Dealing in controlled substances; and
         (e)   Racketeering, tax evasion, money laundering.
      (2)   Any attempt, solicitation or conspiracy to commit one of the
foregoing offenses; or
      (3)   Any offense in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate act(s)
been committed in the state would have constituted any of the foregoing;
offenses.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in division (1) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL. At least 35% of the item(s) so modified.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Greenville, Indiana, Indiana.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. Of a sexually oriented business, shall
mean any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room, booth or area where a patron of sexually oriented
business ordinarily would be positioned while watching a film, videocassette or
other video reproduction.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.03 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The classifications for sexually oriented businesses shall be as follows:
   (A)   Adult bookstore;
   (B)   Adult cabaret;
   (C)   Adult motel;
   (D)   Adult mini motion picture theater;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theater;
   (F)   Adult service establishment;
   (G)   Semi-nude model studio;
   (H)   Sexual device shop; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter center.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.04 RESOLUTION LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented
business in the town without a valid sexually oriented business resolution
license.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an “employee,” as defined in
this chapter, of a sexually oriented business in the town without a valid
sexually oriented business employee resolution license.
   (C)   An applicant for a sexually oriented business resolution license or a
sexually oriented business employee resolution license shall file in person at
the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer requesting a Town Council to pass a town
resolution license. A completed application made on a form provided by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall be submitted to the Town Council for preparation of the
resolution license to be considered at the next Town Council meeting. The
application shall be signed as required by division (E) below and shall be
notarized. An application shall be considered complete when it contains, for
each person required to sign the application, the information and/or items
required in divisions (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(g) below, accompanied by the
appropriate fee identified in §
114.06:
      (1)   If completed application meets all ordinance requirements, a
resolution shall be passed and must be posted at entry of the place of
business. The resolution license must be renewed each year on anniversary date:
         (a)   The applicant’s full true name and any other names used by the
applicants in the preceding five years;
         (b)   Current business address or mailing address of the applicant;
         (c)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver’s license or a
copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture identification document
issued by a governmental agency;
         (d)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license,
the business name, location, legal description, mailing address and phone
number of the sexually oriented business;
         (e)   Application is for a sexually oriented business resolution
license shall provide the name and business address of the statutory agent or
other agent authorized to receive service of process;
         (f)   A statement of whether an applicant has ever been convicted of
or has pled guilty or nolo contendere to a specified criminal activity as
defined in this chapter, and if so, each specified criminal activity involved,
including the date, place and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of
conviction and release from confinement, where applicable; and
         (g)   A statement of whether any sexually oriented business in which
an applicant has had an influential interest has, in the previous five years
(and at a time during which the applicant had the influential interest):
            1.   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
            2.   Been subject to a court order of closure or padlocking.
      (2)   The information provided pursuant to divisions (C)(1)(a) through
(C)(1)(g) above shall be supplemented in writing by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the Clerk-Treasurer within ten working days of a change
of circumstances which would render the information originally submitted false
or incomplete.
   (D)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business is
located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn, to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the ulterior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants who are
required to comply with §§
114.14 through
114.18 shall submit a diagram indicating that the interior configuration meets
the requirements of those sections.
   (E)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he or she shall sign the application for a resolution license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than an individual, each person with an influential interest in the
business shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant
must be qualified under §
114.05 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a resolution
license is granted.
   (F)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a resolution license under this chapter shall be maintained by
the Town Hall of the Town Clerk-Treasurer on a confidential basis, and such
information may be disclosed only as may be required, and only to the extent
required, by law or court order.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 ISSUANCE OF RESOLUTION LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a completed application under §
114.04(C) for a sexually oriented business resolution license, the Town Council
shall, within 30 days after approval of the resolution, issue license to the
applicant.
   (B)   The Town Council shall issue a resolution license, unless:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information as required by §
114.04 for issuance of a resolution license or has falsely answered a question
or request for information on the application form;
      (3)   The resolution license application fee required by this chapter has
not been paid;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is
not in compliance with locational requirements of this chapter or the
locational requirements of any other town ordinances;
      (5)   Any sexually oriented business in which the applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (b)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      (6)   The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   The Town Council shall either issue a resolution license or issue a
written notice of denial of a resolution license to the applicant with cause
for denial. The resolution license if approved shall contain the following: the
resolution license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the resolution license issued
to the licensee(s), the expiration date, and, the address of the sexually
oriented business. The sexually oriented business resolution license shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented
business so that it may be read at any time. A sexually oriented business
employee shall keep the employee’s license on his or her person or on the
premises where the licensee is then working or performing.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.06 FEES.
   The initial resolution license and annual renewal fees for sexually oriented
business resolution licenses and sexually oriented business employee resolution
licenses shall be as follows: $5,000 for the initial fee for a sexually
oriented business resolution license and $2,500 for annual renewal; $500 for
the initial sexually oriented business employee resolution license and $500 for
annual renewal.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.07 INSPECTION.
   Sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees shall
permit the Town Council or its designee (Town Marshal’s Department) to inspect,
from time to time on an occasional basis, the portions of the sexually oriented
business premises where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the specific regulations of this chapter, during those times
when the sexually oriented business is occupied by patrons or is open to the
public. This section shall be narrowly construed by the Town Council to
authorize reasonable inspections of the resolution licensed premises pursuant
to this chapter, but not to authorize a harassing or excessive pattern of
inspections.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.08 EXPIRATION OF RESOLUTION LICENSE.
   (A)   Each resolution license shall remain valid for a period of one
calendar year from the date of passage unless otherwise suspended or revoked.
Such resolution license may be renewed only by making application and payment
of a fee as provided in §§
114.04 and
114.06.
   (B)   Application for renewal should be made pursuant to the procedures set
forth in §
114.04 at least 90 days before the expiration date, and when made less than 90
days before the expiration date, the expiration of the resolution license will
not be affected.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.09 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Town Council shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a
sexually oriented business resolution license for a period not to exceed 30
days if the sexually oriented business resolution licensee has knowingly
violated this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee to violate this
chapter.
   (B)   The Town Council shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a
sexually oriented business employee resolution license if the employee has
knowingly violated this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Council shall issue a letter of intent to revoke a sexually
oriented business resolution license or a sexually oriented business employee
license, as applicable, if the resolution licensee knowingly violates this
chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee to violate this chapter and the
licensee’s resolution license has been suspended within the previous 12-month
period.
   (B)   The Town Council shall issue written intent to revoke a sexually
oriented business resolution license or a sexually oriented business employee
resolution license, as applicable, if:
      (1)   The resolution licensee has knowingly given false information in
the application for the sexually oriented business resolution license;
      (2)   The resolution licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or
allowed possession, use or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   The resolution licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or
allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   The resolution licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the
sexually oriented business during a period of time when the resolution license
was finally suspended or revoked; or
      (5)   The resolution licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or
allowed any specified sexual activity to occur in or on the resolution licensed
premises.
   (C)   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the resolution license; provided that, if any
conviction which serves as a basis of a resolution license revocation is
overturned or reversed on appeal, that conviction shall be treated as null and
of no effect for revocation purposes.
   (D)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in §
114.11, the Town Council revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
resolution license or sexually oriented business employee license for one year
from the date revocation becomes effective.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.11 HEARING; RESOLUTION LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   When the Towns Council issues a written notice of intent to deny,
suspend or revoke a resolution license, the Town Council shall immediately send
such notice, which shall include the specific grounds under this chapter for
such action, to the applicant or resolution licensee (respondent) by personal
delivery or certified mail. The notice shall be directed to the most current
business address or other mailing address on file with the Town Council Clerk-
Treasurer for the respondent. The notice shall specify a date, not less than
ten days nor more than 20 days after the date the notice is issued, on which
the Town Council shall conduct a hearing on the Town Council’s intent to deny,
suspend or revoke the license.
      (1)   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to
present all of respondent’s arguments and to be represented by counsel, present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of the Town
Council’s witnesses. The Town Council shall also be represented by counsel, and
shall bear the burden of proving the grounds for denying, suspending or
revoking the resolution license. The hearing shall take no longer than two
days, unless extended at the request of the respondent to meet the requirements
of due process and proper administration of justice. The Town Council shall
issue a written decision, including specific reasons for the decision pursuant
to this chapter, to the respondent within five days after the hearing. Ten days
after the Board issues its written decision, said decision shall be deemed
final and any temporary license shall expire.
      (2)   If the decision is to deny, suspend or revoke the license, the
decision shall include a statement advising the respondent of the right to
appeal or challenge such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction. If the
Town Council’s decision finds that no grounds, exist for denial, suspension or
revocation of the license, the Town Council shall, contemporaneously with the
issuance of the decision, order the Town Council to immediately withdraw the
intent to deny, suspend or revoke the license and to notify the respondent in
writing by certified mail of such action. If the respondent is not yet
resolution licensed, the Town Council shall contemporaneously therewith issue
the resolution license to the applicant.
   (B)   If any court action challenging the Town Council’s decision is
initiated, the Town Council shall prepare and transmit to the court a
transcript of the hearing within ten days after receiving written notice of the
filing of the court action. The Town Council shall consent to expedited
briefing and/or disposition of the action, shall comply with any expedited
schedule set by the court and shall facilitate prompt judicial review of the
proceedings. The following shall apply to any sexually oriented business that
is lawfully in operation, in all respects, as of the effective date of this
chapter. Upon the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain or
otherwise enjoin the town’s enforcement of the denial, suspension or
revocation, the town shall immediately issue the respondent a provisional
license. The provisional license shall allow the respondent to continue
operation of the sexually oriented business or to continue employment as a
sexually oriented business employee and will expire upon the court’s entry of a
judgment on the respondent’s appeal or other action to restrain or otherwise
enjoin the town’s enforcement.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12 TRANSFER OF RESOLUTION LICENSE.
   A resolution licensee shall not transfer his or her resolution license to
another, nor shall a resolution licensee operate a sexually oriented business
under the authority of a resolution license at any place other than the address
designated in the sexually oriented business resolution license application.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.13 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business between
12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.14 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises, through
any mechanical or electronic image-producing device, a film, video cassette or
other visual reproduction characterized by an emphasis on the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall comply with the
following requirements.
      (1)   Each application for a sexually oriented business resolution
license shall contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all
operator’s stations, viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, video cameras
and monitors installed for monitoring purposes and restrooms, and shall
designate all portions of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted.
Restrooms shall not contain video reproduction equipment. The diagram shall
also designate the place at which the resolution license will be conspicuously
posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an
engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each
diagram shall be oriented to the north or to some designated street or object
and shall be drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient
to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The Town Council may waive
the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a
diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of
the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on
the resolution licensed premises.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (a)   The occupancy of viewing rooms is limited to one person;
         (b)   Sexual activity on the premises is prohibited;
         (c)   The making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited;
         (d)   Violators will be required to leave the premises; and
         (e)   Violations of divisions (A)(5)(a), (A)(5)(b) and (A)(5)(c) above
are unlawful.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in divisions (A)(5)(a) through (A)(5)(d) above.
      (7)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a operator’s station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator’s station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the
premises has two or more operator’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the operator’s stations. The view required in
this division (A)(7) must be by direct line of sight from the operator’s
station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one employee is
on duty and situated in each operator’s station at all times that any patron is
on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the
duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that the view area
specified in this division (A)(7) remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or enclosures at all times
that any patron is present on the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.15 LOITERING, EXTERIOR LIGHTING, VISIBILITY AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to:
      (1)   Post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on
such property;
      (2)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on such property by visually inspecting such property at least once
every 90 minutes or inspecting such property by use of video cameras and
monitors; and
      (3)   Provide lighting of the exterior premises to provide for visual
inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. If used, video cameras
and monitors shall operate continuously at all times that the premises are open
for business. The monitors shall be installed within an operator’s station.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
   (C)   No sexually oriented business shall erect a fence, wall or other
barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the establishment
from being visible from a public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any sexually oriented business which engages in repeated or continuing
violations of this chapter shall constitute a public nuisance. For purposes of
this chapter, REPEATED VIOLATIONS shall mean three or more violations of this
chapter within a one-year period dating from the time of any violation, and a
CONTINUING VIOLATION shall mean a violation of this chapter lasting for three
or more consecutive days.
   (B)   The town’s legal counsel is hereby authorized to institute civil
proceedings necessary for the enforcement of this chapter to prosecute,
restrain or correct violations hereof. Such proceedings, including injunction,
shall be brought in the name of the town; provided, however, that nothing in
this section and no action taken hereunder, shall be held to exclude such
proceedings as may be authorized by other provisions of this chapter, or any of
the laws or ordinances in force in the town or to exempt anyone violating this
chapter or any part of the said laws from any penalty which may be incurred.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.17 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO EXISTING BUSINESSES.
   This chapter is necessary to the immediate preservation of the public health
and safety, to prevent the negative secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses, and therefor shall become effective immediately upon passage. All
sexually oriented businesses lawfully operating in all respects, and all
sexually oriented business employees working in a lawfully operating sexually
oriented business, on the effective date of this chapter, are hereby granted a
de facto temporary license to continue operation or employment without a
resolution license for a period of 30 days following the effective date of this
chapter. By the end of said 30 days, all sexually oriented businesses and
sexually oriented business employees shall apply for a resolution license under
this chapter. During said 30 days, all requirements of this chapter, except for
the requirement of obtaining a resolution license, shall be in full force and
effect.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.18 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a sexually oriented business to knowingly violate
the following regulations or to knowingly allow an employee or any other person
to violate the following regulations.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a patron, employee or
any other person to knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear in a state of nudity, regardless of whether such public nudity
is expressive in nature.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to knowingly
or intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appear in a semi-nude
condition unless the person is an employee who, while semi-nude, remains at
least six feet from any patron or customer and on a stage at least 18 inches
from the floor in a room of at least 1,000 square feet.
      (3)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any employee who
regularly appears semi-nude in a sexually oriented business to knowingly or
intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a customer on the premises of
a sexually oriented business.
      (4)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell, use
or consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
      (5)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly
allow a person under 18 years of age to be or remain on the premises of a
sexually oriented business.
   (B)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the Town Council, and summarizing
the provisions of divisions (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) and (A)(5) above,
shall be posted near the entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a
manner as to be clearly visible to patrons upon entry.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.19 SCIENTOR REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LICENSEE LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental
state is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee’s resolution license shall be imputed to the sexually oriented
business resolution licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this
chapter, or for purposes of resolution license denial, suspension or
revocation, only if an officer, director or general partner, or a person who
managed, supervised or controlled the operation of the business premises,
knowingly or recklessly allowed such act to occur on the premises. It shall be
a defense to liability that the person to whom liability is imputed was
powerless to prevent the act.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.20 FAILURE OF TOWN TO MEET DEADLINE NOT TO RISK APPLICANT/ RESOLUTION
LICENSEE RIGHTS.
   In the event that a town official is required to take an act or do a thing
pursuant to this chapter within a prescribed time, and fails to take such act
or do such thing within the time prescribed, said failure shall not prevent the
exercise of constitutional rights of an applicant or licensee. If the act
required of the Town Council under this chapter, and not completed in the time
prescribed, includes approval of conditions necessary for approval by the Town
Council of an applicant or resolution licensee’s application for sexually
oriented business resolution license or a sexually oriented business employee’s
resolution license (including a renewal), the condition shall be deemed met the
day after the deadline for the Town Council action has passed.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses shall not be issued a special resolution
license. It shall be unlawful to operate a sexually oriented business except in
the areas designated as mixed use by the town land use map as General
Commercial, Light Industrial and Mix Use. See map attached to the ordinance
from which this section is derived for these areas with hatch markings.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to establish, operate or cause to be operated a
sexually oriented business in the town, unless said sexually oriented business
is at least:
      (1)   Five hundred feet from any parcel occupied by another sexually
oriented business or by a business licensed by the state to sell alcohol at the
premises; and
      (2)   Five hundred feet from any parcel occupied by any church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, daycare center or preschool, occupied
residential home or any public park.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, measurements shall be made in a
straight line in all directions without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of any building or structure on the premises
where the sexually oriented business is located to the closest property line of
the property containing the church, public or private elementary or secondary
school, daycare center or preschool, occupied residential home or any public
park.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any town ordinance, a
nonconforming sexually oriented business, lawfully existing in all respects
under law prior to the effective date of this chapter, may continue to operate
for one year following that date in order to make a reasonable recoupment of
its investment in its current location. At the conclusion of said one year, the
use will no longer be recognized as a lawful nonconforming use; provided, that
a nonconforming sexually oriented business may apply for one or more six-month
extensions of the original one-year period upon a showing of financial
hardship. An application for an initial extension based upon a showing of
financial hardship (“hardship exception”) shall be made at least 60 days before
the conclusion of the aforementioned one- year period. If a hardship extension
is granted, subsequent applications for hardship extensions shall be made at
least 60 days before the conclusion of the nonconforming sexually oriented
business’s current extension period.
   (E)   Procedure for seeking hardship extension: an application for a
hardship extension shall be filed in writing with the Town Council, and shall
include evidence of purchase and improvement costs, income earned and lost,
depreciation and costs of relocation. Within ten days after receiving the
application, the Town Council shall schedule a public hearing on the
application before the Town Council which public hearing shall be conducted
within 30 days after the Town Council’s receipt of the application. Notice of
the time and place of such public hearing shall be published at least ten days
before the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation published within the
town, and shall contain the particular location for which the hardship
extension is requested. The Town Council shall issue a written decision within
ten days after the public hearing on the application for a hardship extension.
The hardship extension shall be granted upon a showing that the nonconforming
sexually oriented business is unable, absent the extension, to make a
reasonable recoupment of its investment in its currently lawful, nonconforming
use location.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.22 CONFLICTING CODE PROVISIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between any provision of this chapter and any
provision(s) in another town ordinance, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-8-2-4, I.C. 36-8-2-
10, I.C.36-1-6-2, I.C. 36-1-6-3, I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor statute if said
statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The Town Council shall give all persons holding a substantial interest
in any real property, which is not in compliance with this chapter ten days’
written notice to correct the condition and bring the property into compliance.
Such notice may be in person by any member of the Town Marshal’s Department, or
by mailing it by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested.
   (B)   For each day any person or entity shall be in violation of this
chapter after the ten-day period set forth in division (A) above, said person
shall be fined an amount not less than $1,000 per day, plus attorney fees and
court cost.
   (C)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be sought
against person or person’s responsible real estate in accordance with I.C. 36-
1-6-2.
   (D)   Furthermore, if the condition of said real estate has not been
corrected within 30 days after the aforesaid ten-day notice period, the Town
Council may cause to be certified to the County Auditor as a charge against the
taxes due and payable to the County Treasurer in the following year together
with attorney fees and court cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor
statute, if said statute is repealed.
   (E)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
   (F)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of this chapter, nor shall
any action be taken by the town to bring the real property into compliance with
this chapter, unless all persons holding a substantial interest in the property
are given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance.
(Ord. 2011-TO-019, passed 7-18-2011)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MINORS; CURFEW
      
131.   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   LITTER
      
134.   ICE BOXES; LOCKS AND SEALS
      
135.   WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 130: MINORS; CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Exceptions; prosecution
   
130.03   Definition
   
130.04   Enforcement
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Curfew for minors. It is unlawful for any person under the following
ages to remain in or on any of the public streets, alleys or public places in
the town during the following times of day:
      (1)   Under 18 years of age. For any person under the age of 18 years,
the following curfew applies: 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday or Sunday; and
      (2)   Under 16 years of age. For any person under the age of 16 years,
the following curfew applies: 10:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday or Sunday.
   (B)   Any child under 18 years of age. Any child under 18 years of age who
is found violating division (A) above by any police officer or the Town Marshal
or his or her deputies shall be taken before the Juvenile Court of the county
or the Judge thereof, to be charged, tried and punished for the violation of
division (A) above, as now or hereafter provided by laws of the state for the
punishment of juvenile offenders. The police officer or the Town Marshal or his
or her deputies may also have the option of issuing the same said child a
written citation for this violation to pay a fine.
(Ord. 2010-T-059, passed 8-31-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 EXCEPTIONS; PROSECUTION.
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian
or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school-sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event; or
         (d)   A necessary errand or duty directed by the child’s parent,
guardian or custodian;
      (4)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution;
      (5)   In a vehicle involved in interstate travel; and/or
      (6)   Involved in an emergency.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having the
legal custody of any child to allow, suffer or permit such child to violate the
provisions of §
130.01(A) after having been warned in writing that such child has previously
been found violating such section. Conviction of the child is not required to
be proven in any prosecution for a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2010-T-059, passed 8-31-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. Unforeseen circumstances, or the status or condition resulting
there from, requiring immediate action to safeguard life, limb or property. The
term includes, but is not limited to, fires, natural disasters, automobile
accidents or other similar circumstances.
(Ord. 2010-T-059, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 130.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2, I.C. 36-1-6-
3 or I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-T-059, passed 8-31-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be sought
against person or person’s responsible real estate in accordance with I.C. 36-
1-6-2.
   (B)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
   (C)   Penalty shall be levied holding responsible parents, guardians or
custodian for violation of this chapter and after all persons holding a
substantial interest in the real property are given notice.
   (D)   Person or entity in violation of this chapter shall be fined $50 per
day for each event plus attorney fees and court cost.
   (E)   Furthermore, if fines are not paid within 30 days, the town may cause
to be certified to the County Auditor as a charge against the taxes due and
payable to the County Treasurer in the following year together with attorney
fees and court cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor statute, if
said statute is repealed.
   (F)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall attach a copy of the publication and
related information to the original signed ordinance and a PDF file shall be
added to the electronic file copy of this chapter.
   (G)   Any unlawful provision found in this chapter shall not effect the
remaining provision.
(Ord. 2010-T-059, passed 8-31-2010)
CHAPTER 131: SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
131.01   Synthetic cannabinoids
   
131.02   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   Sale of synthetic cannabinoids prohibited:
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids such as K2 Spice, or
similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical compounds:
      (1)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymehtyl)-6, 6dimemyl-3-(2methybctan-2-yl)-6a,
7, 10, 10a-tetra- hydrobenzo[c] chromen-a-ol, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   1-utyl-3-(1-napthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative shall not be sold,
marketed or offered for sale within the incorporated town.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids may not be burned,
incinerated or ignited in any public or private place, or on any property
owned, leased or controlled by the town.
(Ord. 2012-MO-031, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-1, I.C. 36-1-6-
2, I.C. 36-1-6-3, I.C. 36-1-6-4, I.C. 34-28-6-1 or a successor statute if said
statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2012-MO-031, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction and shall be punishable by:
      (1)   A fine of $50 for the first violation per container per days of
sales;
      (2)   A fine of $150 for the second violation per container per days of
sales;
      (3)   A fine of $300 for the third violation per container per days of
sales;
      (4)   A fine of $1,000 for fourth and subsequent violations per container
per days of sales; and
      (5)   If, after multiple violations by the same person or entity, the
Town Prosecuting Attorney and the Town Marshal’s Department have reasons to
believe that the imposition of fines will not be effective in enforcing this
chapter; the Town Prosecuting Attorney shall be empowered to seek all other
remedies provided by law.
   (B)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be sought
against person or person’s responsible real estate in accordance with I.C. 36-
1-6-2.
   (C)   Furthermore, if levied fines are not paid within 30 days, the town may
cause to be certified to the County Auditor as a charge against the taxes due
and payable to the County Treasurer in the following year together with
attorney fees and court cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
   (D)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
   (E)   All penalties shall be processed through the County Clerk.
(Ord. 2012-MO-031, passed 6-11-2012)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Loitering
   
132.02   Unlawful assembly
   
132.03   Failure of Town Marshal’s Department member to comply with proper
procedure
   
132.04   Person’s explanation deemed true at trial
   
132.05   Probable cause to assume violation
   
132.06   Possession of paint or marker with intent to deface unlawful
   
132.07   Graffiti; definition and removal
   
132.08   Enforcement
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 LOITERING.
   No person shall loiter or prowl in a place, at a time or in a manner that is
not usual for law abiding citizens, under circumstances that warrant a
justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons
or property in the vicinity, in any public place, public way, street, highway
or alley and refuse to obey the lawful command of a Town Marshal’s Department
member to move on or provide to such Town Marshal’s Department member a lawful
reason for remaining on such public way, street, highway, place or alley if the
alleged loitering by such person would create or cause to be created any of the
following:
   (A)   Danger of a breach of the peace;
   (B)   The unreasonable danger of a disturbance to the comfort and repose of
any person acting lawfully on or in a public way, street, highway, place or
alley reserved for pedestrians;
   (C)   The obstruction or attempted obstruction of the free normal flow of
vehicular traffic or the normal passage of pedestrian traffic upon any public
way, street, highway, place or alley; or
   (D)   The obstruction, molestation or interference or attempt to obstruct,
molest or interfere with any person lawfully on or in a public way, street,
highway, place or alley, in a manner that would cause a reasonable person or
pedestrian of a public way, street, highway, place or alley to fear for his or
her safety.
(Ord. 2010-T-054, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   No person who is a member of a group of three or more persons who are
loitering or prowling in a place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law
abiding citizens, under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable
alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity, in a public way, street, highway, place or alley, shall refuse the
lawful command of a Town Marshal’s Department member to move or provide to the
Town Marshal’s Department member a lawful reason for remaining in a public way,
street, highway, place or alley, whether such group is stationary or in
transit, if the alleged loitering would create or cause to be created any of
the following:
   (A)   Danger of a breach of the peace;
   (B)   The unreasonable danger of a disturbance to the comfort and repose of
any person acting lawfully on or in a public way, street, highway, place or
alley reserved for pedestrians;
   (C)   The obstruction or attempted obstruction of the free normal flow of
vehicular traffic or the normal passage of pedestrian traffic upon any public
way, street, highway, public place or alley; or
   (D)   The obstruction, molestation or interference or attempt to obstruct,
molest or interfere with any person lawfully on or in a public way, street,
highway, place or alley, in a manner that would cause a reasonable person or
pedestrian of a public way, street, highway, place or alley to fear for his or
her safety.
(Ord. 2010-T-054, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 FAILURE OF TOWN MARSHAL’S DEPARTMENT MEMBER TO COMPLY WITH PROPER
PROCEDURE.
   No person shall be convicted under this section if the Town Marshal’s
Department member failed to comply with the procedure outlined herein.
(Ord. 2010-T-054, passed 8-30-2010)
§ 132.04 PERSON’S EXPLANATION DEEMED TRUE AT TRIAL.
   No person shall be convicted under this section if it appears at trial that
the explanation given by the person is true and, if believed by the Town
Marshal’s Department member, would:
   (A)   Have dispelled the fear for human safety;
   (B)   Have dispelled the concern for safety of property;
   (C)   Have dispelled the fear of a breach of the peace; and
   (D)   Have provided a justifiable reason for obstructing vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, subject to the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 2010-T-054, passed 8-30-2010)
§ 132.05 PROBABLE CAUSE TO ASSUME VIOLATION.
   If a person takes flight upon appearance of a Town Marshal’s Department
member who identifies himself as such, or refuses to identify himself or
herself, or attempts to conceal himself or herself, such Town Marshal’s
Department member has probable cause to believe a violation of this section has
occurred.
(Ord. 2010-T-054, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 POSSESSION OF PAINT OR MARKER WITH INTENT TO DEFACE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a spray paint
container, liquid paint or any marker containing a fluid which is not water
soluble and has a point, brush, applicator or other writing surface of three-
eighths of an inch or greater, etching equipment or etching materials, in any
public building or upon any public facility. It shall be a defense to an action
for violation of this division (A) that the owner, manager or other person
having control of the property, building or facility consented to the presence
of the paint, marker or etching equipment or material.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a spray paint
container, liquid paint or any marker containing a fluid which is not water
soluble and has a point, brush, applicator or other writing surface of three-
eighths of an inch or greater, or any etching equipment or etching materials,
on the public way with intent to use the same to deface any building, structure
or property.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, ETCHING EQUIPMENT and ETCHING MATERIALS
include any tool, device, equipment or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on metal, glass, plastic, concrete or stone.
(Ord. 2010-T-054, passed 8-30-2010)
§ 132.07 GRAFFITI; DEFINITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Definition. The term GRAFFITI, for purposes of this section, shall
mean any unauthorized inscription or representation, on a building, structure,
wall, sign, fence, sidewalk, pavement, post, stone, tree or other object or
structure, of any symbol, diagram, letter, word, numeral, emblem, picture,
character or combination thereof by carving, application of paint or other
substance other than as permitted by this chapter.
   (B)   Removal required. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the
building, structure, wall, dumpster or other personal property upon which any
graffiti has been placed to remove, cover or eradicate the graffiti. When
graffiti is found to be on private property, the Town Marshal’s Department
shall notify the property owner, with a copy to the occupant if applicable, in
writing of the graffiti and request its removal within ten days. For good cause
shown, the owner or occupant may be given additional time to meet the removal
requirements without being charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Removal by town authorized. In addition to any fine which may be
imposed, if the owner or occupant fails to remove, cover or otherwise eradicate
the graffiti within ten days from the issuance of the notice, or such later
date as the owner or occupant may be allowed, the town or its authorized agent
may enter upon the property and remove such graffiti by any means necessary,
and the cost of removal shall be collected from the owner or occupant of the
property.
   (D)   Appeal rights. The owner or occupant of the property may seek relief
from the cost of the removal and abatement of the graffiti as provided in
divisions (C) and (D) above by making a written request to the Town Council,
providing all reasons and explanations justifying any modification or waiver of
those costs. Each written request must be made within ten days after receiving
the notice of intent to assess cost. The property owner may request a hearing
and review by filing a written request with the Town Council on or before ten
days after receiving the notice of intent to assess cost. The Town Council
shall, at its next scheduled meeting, make a final determination of the
assessment of cost and placement of lien.
   (E)   Recovery of cost from person responsible for placing graffiti. The
town’s exercise of the remedies provided in this chapter shall not prevent the
owner or occupant from recovery, through civil suit or otherwise, the cost of
removal or other reparation from the person responsible for placing the
graffiti on his or her property.
(Ord. 2010-T-054, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-3 or I.C. 36-1-
6-4, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-T-054, passed 8-30-2010)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fines and penalties, §§
132.01 through
132.06.
      (1)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be sought
against the person’s or the persons’ responsible real estate in accordance with
I.C. 36-1-6-2.
      (2)   Furthermore, if the fines arc not paid within 30 days, the town may
cause to be certified to the County Auditor as a charge against the taxes due
and payable plus attorney fees and court cost to the County Treasurer in the
following year in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor statute, if said
statute is repealed.
      (3)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
   (B)   Fines and penalties; §
132.07.
      (1)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be sought
against the person’s or the persons’ responsible real estate in accordance with
I.C. 36-1-6-2.
      (2)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
      (3)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of this chapter, nor shall
any action be taken by the town to bring the real property into compliance with
this chapter, unless all persons holding a substantial interest in the property
are given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance.
      (4)   The town shall give all persons holding a substantial interest in
any real property, which is not in compliance with this chapter ten days’
written notice to remove graffiti. Such notice may be in person by any member
of the Town Marshal’s Department, or by mailing it by registered or certified
mail with return receipt requested.
      (5)   For each day any person or entity shall be in violation of this
chapter after the ten-day period set forth in division (B)(4) above, said
person shall be fined an amount not less than $50 per day, plus attorney fees
and court cost. All second and subsequent violations in the calendar year are
subject to fines not less than $100 or more than $1,000 per day.
      (6)   Furthermore, if the fines are not paid within 30 days, the town may
cause to be certified to the County Auditor as a charge against the taxes due
and payable, plus attorney fees and court cost to the County Treasurer in the
following year in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor statute, if said
statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-T-054, passed 8-30-2010)
CHAPTER 133: LITTER
Section
   
133.01   Definition
   
133.02   Littering a Class B infraction
   
133.03   Littering a Class A infraction
   
133.04   Throwing burning material from a moving motor vehicle
   
133.05   Enforcement
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REFUSE. Includes solid and semisolid wastes, dead animals and offal.
(Ord. 2018-TO-045, passed 1-8-2018) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 LITTERING A CLASS B INFRACTION.
   A person who recklessly, knowingly or intentionally places or leaves refuse
on property of another person, except in a container provided for refuse,
commits littering, a Class B infraction.
(Ord. 2018-TO-045, passed 1-8-2018) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 LITTERING A CLASS A INFRACTION.
   The offense becomes a Class A infraction if the refuse is placed or left in,
on or within 100 feet of a body of water that is under the jurisdiction of the:
   (A)   Department of Natural Resources; or
   (B)   United States Army Corps of Engineers.
(Ord. 2018-TO-045, passed 1-8-2018) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 THROWING BURNING MATERIAL FROM A MOVING MOTOR VEHICLE.
   A person commits a Class A Infraction for throwing from a moving motor
vehicle;
   (A)   A lighted cigarette, cigar or match; or
   (B)   Other burning material;
(Ord. 2018-TO-045, passed 1-8-2018) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   Evidence that littering was committed from a moving vehicle other than a
public conveyance constitutes prima facie evidence that it was committed by the
operator of that vehicle.
(Ord. 2018-TO-045, passed 1-8-2018) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Class A infraction: $1,000.
   (B)   Class B infraction: $200 to $500.
(Ord. 2018-TO-045, passed 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 134: ICE BOXES; LOCKS AND SEALS
Section
   
134.01   Removal of locks on ice boxes and refrigerators
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 REMOVAL OF LOCKS ON ICE BOXES AND REFRIGERATORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to store, place or permit any discarded,
abandoned or unused icebox, refrigerator or similar container of an air-tight
character in any place where the same is accessible to children, without first
removing and rendering completely inoperable all catches or locks and seals on
the exterior of all doors thereof, so as to prevent any person or child from
becoming imprisoned therein. This section shall not apply to the delivery,
transfer or removal of any such icebox, refrigerator or container from one
location to another while in transit.
(Ord. 2010-T-058, passed 8-31-2010) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty is
otherwise specifically provided shall be fined not more than $250. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 2010-T-058, passed 8-31-2010)
CHAPTER 135: WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS
Section
   
135.01   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
135.02   Use or discharge of consumer fireworks prohibited except on certain
dates and times
   
135.03   Throwing objects
   
135.04   Enforcement
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to shoot, fire or discharge any firearms
of any description, guns, air guns, air pistols or other mechanical devices
which shoot or throw shot, bullets, stones or other missiles within the town,
except that this section shall not prohibit any police of the law from
discharging a firearm in performance of such officer’s official duty, nor apply
to any citizen when lawfully defending such citizen’s person or property from
physical injury.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, except those persons above excluded, by
any means to explode, set off or discharge any firearm shell, shot or cartridge
within the town.
(Ord. 2010-T-057, passed 8-31-2010) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.02 USE OR DISCHARGE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS PROHIBITED EXCEPT ON CERTAIN
DATES AND TIMES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONSUMER FIREWORK. As provided in I.C. 22-11-14-1, as amended.
      FIREWORK. As provided in I.C. 22-11-14-1, as amended.
   (B)   Consumer fireworks may only be used or discharged within the town on
the following dates and times, as provided in I.C. 22-11-14-10.5:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and July 9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (C)   The Town Marshal, or his or her designee, is responsible for the
interpretation and civil enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   Seizure and forfeiture of consumer fireworks from the Town Marshal’s
Department may seize and dispose of consumer fireworks that are used in
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-T-057, passed 8-31-2010) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.03 THROWING OBJECTS.
   (A)   Throwing missiles. It is unlawful for any person to throw or cast any
stone, ball, hunting arrow or other missile within the town whereby life or
property may be endangered.
   (B)   Sling shots. It is unlawful to throw, propel or shoot any stone,
material or missile of any kind or description by means of aid of what is
commonly known as a sling shot.
(Ord. 2010-T-057, passed 8-31-2010) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-3(2), I.C. 36-
1-6-3 or I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-T-057, passed 8-31-2010) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty is otherwise specifically provided shall be fined not more than
$50. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation
occurs or continues to be fined an amount of $50 per day, plus attorney fees
and court cost.
      (2)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be sought
against person or person’s responsible real estate in accordance with I.C. 36-
1-6-2.
      (3)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
      (4)   Furthermore, if the fines have not been paid within 30 days, the
town may cause to be certified to the County Auditor as a charge against the
taxes due and payable to the County Treasurer in the following year together
with attorney fees and court cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor
statute, if said statute is repealed.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
135.01 shall be fined $500 per event. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   In addition to the seizure and disposition of consumer fireworks that
are used in violation of §
135.02, whoever violates any provision of §
135.02 shall be fined $100 per event. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2010-T-057, passed 8-31-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
      
151.   MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
      
152.   [RESERVED]
      
153.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
154.   CONSTRUCTION; EQUIPMENT; NEW STRUCTURES
      
155.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES
CHAPTER 150: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   [Reserved]
   
150.02   Minimum lot size for future developments
   
150.03   [Reserved]
   
150.04   Security lighting
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 [RESERVED].
§ 150.02 MINIMUM LOT SIZE FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot size for building any new structure, dwelling place or
residence within the town limits shall be nine-tenths of an acre.
   (B)   It is the desire of the Town Council that it maintain the rural
atmosphere that has been developed in the community over the years of existence
of the town. Proposals to establish housing in areas less than this minimum
will adversely affect this atmosphere and contradict the comprehensive plan of
the community, and will only be considered by exception. In addition, in
conjunction with the current county standards already in place, no lot shall be
developed with less than 100 feet of road frontage.
   (C)   It is the desire of the Town Council that to maintain its
comprehensive plan for the community and to maintain health standards at
acceptable levels, that sewers will not be adopted within the town limits
strictly for the sake of increasing housing density. Current experience within
the county has shown that sewers have not worked effectively in the rolling
hills surrounding this community, that they cause undue odors throughout the
year in their regular functioning, and that they eject the effluent of their
systems into the water system of the community and the surrounding area. While
septic systems on smaller lots are equally ineffective, the flow off from
septic systems in acreage nearing one acre has proven to be far superior to
other solutions. To facilitate this plan, it is necessary to keep lot size for
future development to title proposed nine-tenths of an acre or more, as
previously stated. This should not be interpreted, however, that future sewer
options will be prohibited should they prove to be more effective, but that
such systems will not be used as an excuse to allow for increased density of
housing.
   (D)   All septic systems installed for future use will continue to be
approved by the County Health Department before construction will begin on any
establishment. Knowing that sewage drain off is a continuing health hazard and
a problem throughout the county, it is the intention of the Town Council to
ensure that housing density remains at a reasonable level and that effluent
from either septic systems or sewage systems remain at safe levels that will
not negatively impact the health, safety or welfare of our community.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 [RESERVED].
§ 150.04 SECURITY LIGHTING.
   (A)   No security lighting shall be placed in such a manner that it shines
in a spotlight-type nature that it illuminates the interior of adjacent
buildings that are occupied by other persons for any purpose.
   (B)   No security lighting shall be placed in such a manner that it shines
in a spot light type nature that would cause a glare to traveling vehicles
   (C)   Any complaint received concerning this section shall be investigated
by the Town Marshal’s Department to determine if security lighting is in
violation of this section.
   (D)   Enforcement of this section shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-2, I.C.
36-1-6-3, I.C. 36-1-6-4 or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
   (E)   Any unlawful provision found in this section shall not affect the
remaining provision.
(Ord. 2011-TO-013, passed 2-14-2011) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Section 150.04. 
      (1)   The town shall give all persons holding a substantial interest in
any real property, which is not in compliance with §
150.04, ten days’ written notice to correct the condition and bring the
property into compliance. Such notice may be in person by any member of the
Town Marshal’s Department, or by mailing it by registered or certified mail
with return receipt requested.
      (2)   For each day any person or entity shall be in violation of §
150.04 after the ten-day period set forth in division (C)(1) above, said person
shall be fined an amount not less than $50 per day, plus attorney fees and
court cost.
      (3)   If levied fines are not paid within 30 days, a lien will be sought
against the person’s or the persons’ responsible for real estate in accordance
with I.C. 36-1-6-2.
      (4)   Furthermore, if the condition of said real estate has not been
corrected within 30 days after the aforesaid ten-day notice period, the town
may cause to be certified to the County Auditor as a charge against the taxes
due and payable to the County Treasurer in the following year, together with
attorney fees and court cost in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor
statute, if said statute is repealed.
      (5)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4, or a successor
statute if said statute is repealed.
      (6)   No penalty shall be levied for violation of §
150.04, nor shall any action be taken by the town to bring the real property
into compliance with §
150.04, unless all persons holding a substantial interest in the property are
given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance.
(Ord. 2011-TO-013, passed 2-14-2011)
CHAPTER 151: MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adoption
§ 151.01 ADOPTION.
    The town adopts the Floyd County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan as an
official plan.
(Ord. 2016-TO-005, passed 3-14-2016; Res. 2022-TR-00023, passed -14-2022)
CHAPTER 152: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 153: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   General prohibition of unsafe buildings
   
153.03   Orders; contents; notice; expiration
   
153.04   Modification or rescission of orders
   
153.05   Hearing; extension of time limits; performance bonds; record of
findings and action
   
153.06   Emergency action; recovery of costs; challenge of determination of
emergency
   
153.07   Action to enforce orders
   
153.08   Performance of work required by orders; procedure
   
153.09   Liability for costs for performance of work required by orders
   
153.10   Notice of unpaid costs; filing with Clerk of Court; hearing; judgment
lien
   
153.11   Unpaid costs for unsafe premises repairs; notice; certification as
special assessment; collection as delinquent taxes; disposition of collections
   
153.12   Unsafe Building Fund
   
153.13   Inspection warrants
   
153.14   Civil actions regarding unsafe premises
   
153.15   Manner of serving notice
   
153.16   Recording of orders, statements of rescission, statements of public
bids and records of actions taken by hearing authority
   
153.17   Transfers of property by person not complying with orders
   
153.18   Violations
   
153.19   Appeals
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The executive department, that is, the Town Council, so
authorized by this chapter to administer I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq. series as
adopted in this chapter.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The chief administrative officer of the Department,
that is, the President of the Town Council and/or the person or persons so
appointed by the President of the Town Council.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Town Council of the Town of Greenville, Indiana.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter; including
a fee interest, a life estate, a future interest, a present possessory interest
or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
   UNSAFE BUILDINGS.  
      (1)   A building or structure, or any part of a building or structure,
that is any of the following:
         (a)   An impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
         (b)   A fire hazard;
         (c)   A hazard to the public health;
         (d)   A public nuisance;
         (e)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building conditions or maintenance; and/or
         (f)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance.
      (2)   Additionally, any building or structure which has any or all the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an UNSAFE
BUILDING, provided that such conditions or defects exist to the extent that
life, health, property or safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle passageway or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (b)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
         (c)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood or other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
person, or damage property;
         (e)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength of
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
         (f)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
         (g)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of:
            1.   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
            2.   Faulty construction;
            3.   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
            4.   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
            5.   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely
collapse.
         (h)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
         (i)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
         (j)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
of 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
            1.   An attractive nuisance to children; or
            2.   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
         (l)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirements or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the town, or of any law or ordinance of this state or municipality relating
to the condition, location or structure of buildings;
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws or ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the:
            1.   Strength;
            2.   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
            3.   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy
in the same location.
         (n)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used
for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the County Health
Department or its officers to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in
such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (o)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the concerned Fire
Department to be a fire hazard; or
         (p)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
   UNSAFE PREMISES. The tract of real property on which an unsafe building is
located is considered an UNSAFE PREMISES.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.02 GENERAL PROHIBITION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any building of any kind to remain in a
manner in which the structure constitutes a hazard to public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.03 ORDERS; CONTENTS; NOTICE; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   The enforcement authority may issue an order requiring action relative
to any unsafe premises, including the following, in accordance with standards
established by ordinance. (Notice of the order must be given in accordance with
§
153.15. Notice of the ordered action must be reasonably related to the
condition of the unsafe premises and the nature and use of nearby properties.
The order supersedes any permit relating to building or land use, whether that
permit is obtained before or after the order is issued):
      (1)   Vacating of an unsafe building;
      (2)   Sealing an unsafe building against intrusion by unauthorized
persons;
      (3)   Extermination of vermin in and about the unsafe premises;
      (4)   Removal of trash, debris or fire hazardous material in and about
the unsafe premises;
      (5)   Repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building to bring it into
compliance with standards for building condition or maintenance required for
human habitation, occupancy or use by a statute, a rule adopted under I.C. 4-
22-2, or an ordinance;
      (6)   Removal of part of an unsafe building;
      (7)   Removal of an unsafe building; and
      (8)   Requiring, for an unsafe building that will be sealed for a period
more than 90 days:
         (a)   Sealing against intrusion by unauthorized persons and the
effects of weather;
         (b)   Exterior improvements to make the building compatible in
appearance with other buildings in the area; and
         (c)   Continuing maintenance and upkeep of the building and premises.
   (B)   The order must contain:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that are
the subject of the order;
      (3)   The action that the order requires;
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time when the notice of the order is given;
      (5)   If a hearing is required, a statement indicating the exact time and
place of the hearing, and stating that the person to whom the order was issued
is entitled to appear at the hearing with or without legal counsel, present
evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses and present arguments;
      (6)   If a hearing is not required, a statement that an order under
divisions (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) above becomes final ten days after notice is
given, unless a hearing is requested in writing by a person holding a fee
interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in
the unsafe premises, and the request is delivered to the enforcement authority
before the end of the ten-day period;
      (7)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
enforcement authority if the order is not complied with;
      (8)   A statement indicating the obligation created by §
153.17 relating to notification of subsequent interest holders and the
enforcement authority; and
      (9)   The name, address and telephone number of the enforcement
authority.
   (C)   The order must allow a sufficient time, of at least ten days from the
time when notice of the order is given, to accomplish the required action. If
the order allows more than 30 days to accomplish the action, the order may
require that a substantial beginning be made in accomplishing the action within
30 days.
   (D)   The order expires two years from the day the notice of the order is
given, unless one or more of the following events occurs within that two-year
period:
      (1)   A complaint requesting judicial review is filed under §
153.06;
      (2)   A contract for action required by the order is let at public bid
under §
153.08; or
      (3)   A civil action is filed under §
153.14.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.04 MODIFICATION OR RESCISSION OF ORDERS.
   (A)   The enforcement authority may issue an order that modifies the order
previously issued.
   (B)   The enforcement authority may rescind an order previously issued, even
if the order has been affirmed by the hearing authority.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.05 HEARING; EXTENSION OF TIME LIMITS; PERFORMANCE BONDS; RECORD OF
FINDINGS AND ACTION.
   (A)   A hearing must be held relative to each order of the enforcement
authority, except for an order issued under §
153.03(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4). An order issued under §
153.03(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) becomes final ten days after notice is given,
unless a hearing is requested before the ten-day period ends by a person
holding a fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a
contract purchaser in the unsafe premises. The hearing shall be conducted by
the hearing authority.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held on a business day no earlier than ten days
after notice of the order is given. The hearing authority may, however, take
action at the hearing, or before the hearing if a written request is received
by the enforcement authority not later than five days after notice is given, to
continue the hearing to a business day not later than 14 days after the hearing
date shown on the order. Unless the hearing authority takes action to have the
continued hearing held on a definite, specified date, notice of the continued
hearing must be given to the person to whom the order was issued at least five
days before the continued hearing date, in the manner prescribed by §
153.15. If the order being considered at the continued hearing was served by
publication, it is sufficient to give notice of the continued hearing by
publication unless the enforcement authority has received information in
writing that enables it to make service under §
153.15 by a method other than publication.
   (C)   The person to whom the order was issued, any person having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises that are subject of the
order or any other person with an interest in the proceedings may appear in
person or by counsel at the hearing. Each person appearing at the hearing is
entitled to present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses and present
arguments.
   (D)   (1)   At the conclusion of any hearing at which a continuance is not
granted, the hearing authority may make findings and take action to:
         (a)   Affirm the order;
         (b)   Rescind the order; or
         (c)   Modify the order, but unless the person to whom the order was
issued, or counsel for that person, is present at the hearing, the hearing
authority may modify the order in only a manner that makes its terms less
stringent.
      (2)   In addition to affirming the order, in those cases in which the
hearing authority finds that there has been a willful failure to comply with
the order, the hearing authority may impose a civil penalty in an amount not to
exceed $1,000. The effective date of the civil penalty may be postponed for a
reasonable period, after which the hearing authority may order the civil
penalty reduced or stricken if the hearing authority is satisfied that all work
necessary to fully comply with the order has been done.
   (E)   If, at a hearing, a person to whom an order has been issued requests
an additional period to accomplish action required by the order, and shows good
cause for the request to be granted, the hearing authority may grant the
request. However, as a condition for allowing the additional period, the
hearing authority may require that the person post a performance bond to be
forfeited if the action required by the order is not completed within the
additional period.
   (F)   The Town Council shall, at a public hearing, after having given notice
of the time and place of the hearing by publication in accordance with I.C. 5-
3-1, adopt a schedule setting forth the maximum amount of performance bonds
applicable to various types of ordered action. The hearing authority shall use
this schedule to fix the amount of the performance bond required under division
(E) above.
   (G)   The record of the findings made and action taken by the hearing
authority at the hearing shall be available to the public upon request.
However, neither the enforcement authority nor the hearing authority is
required to give any person notice of the findings and action.
   (H)   A civil penalty under division (D) above may be collected in the same
manner as costs under §
153.10. The amount of the civil penalty that is collected shall be deposited in
the Unsafe Building Fund.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.06 EMERGENCY ACTION; RECOVERY OF COSTS; CHALLENGE OF DETERMINATION OF
EMERGENCY.
   (A)   If the enforcement authority finds it necessary to take emergency
action concerning an unsafe premises in order to protect life, safety or
property, it may take that action without issuing an order or giving notice.
However, this emergency action must be limited to removing any immediate
danger.
   (B)   The town may recover the costs incurred by the enforcement authority
in taking emergency action, by filing a civil action in the Circuit Court or
Superior Court of the county against the persons who held a fee interest, life
estate interest or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe
premises at the time the enforcement authority found it necessary to take
emergency action.
   (C)   If an unsafe premises poses an immediate danger to the life or safety
of persons occupying or using nearby property, the enforcement authority may,
without following this chapter’s requirements for issuing an order and giving
notice, take emergency action to require persons to vacate and not use the
nearby property until the danger has passed. However, any persons required to
vacate an unsafe premises under this division (C) may challenge in an emergency
court proceeding the enforcement authority’s determination that the premises
poses an immediate danger to the life or safety of any person. In an emergency
court proceeding, the enforcement authority has the burden of proving that
emergency action is necessary to protect from immediate danger the life or
safety of persons occupying or using nearby property.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.07 ACTION TO ENFORCE ORDERS.
   (A)   The enforcement authority may cause the action required by an order
issued under §
153.03(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) to be performed by a contractor if:
      (1)   The order has been served, in the manner prescribed by §
153.15, on each person having a fee interest, life estate interest or equitable
interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises that are the subject to
the order;
      (2)   The order has not been complied with;
      (3)   A hearing was not requested under §
153.03(B)(6), or, if a hearing was requested, the order was affirmed at the
hearing; and
      (4)   The order is not being reviewed under §
153.19.
   (B)   The enforcement authority may cause the action required by an order,
other than an order under §
153.03(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4), to be performed if:
      (1)   Service of an order, in the manner prescribed by §
153.15, has been made on each person having a substantial property interest in
the unsafe premises that are subject of the order;
      (2)   The order has been affirmed or modified at the hearing in such a
manner that all persons having a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises that are the subject of the order are currently subject to an order
requiring the accomplishment of substantially identical action;
      (3)   The order, as affirmed or modified at the hearing, has not been
complied with; and
      (4)   The order is not being reviewed under §
153.19.
   (C)   If action is being taken under this section on the basis of an order
that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve the statement that
the enforcement authority intends to perform the work by publication, unless
the authority has received information in writing that enables it to make
service under §
153.15 by a method other than publication.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.08 PERFORMANCE OF WORK REQUIRED BY ORDERS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The work required by an order of the enforcement authority may be
performed in the following manners.
      (1)   If the work is being performed under an order other than an order
under §
153.03(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4), and if the cost of the work is estimated to be
less than $5,000, the enforcement authority or other agent may perform the work
by means of its own workers and equipment owned or leased by it. Notice that
the work is to be performed must be given to all persons with a substantial
properly interest, in the manner prescribed in division (C) below at least ten
days before the date of performance of the work by the enforcement authority.
This notice must include a statement that an amount representing a reasonable
estimate of the cost incurred by the enforcement authority in processing the
matter and performing the work may, if not paid, be recorded after a hearing as
a lien against all persons having a fee interest, life estate interest or
equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises.
      (2)   If the work is being performed under an order other than an order
under §
153.03(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4), and if the estimated cost of this work is
$5,000 or more, this work must be let at public bid to a contractor licensed
and qualified under law. The obligation to pay costs imposed by §
153.09 is based on the condition of the unsafe premises at the time the public
bid was accepted. Changes occurring in the condition of the unsafe premises
after the public bid was accepted do not eliminate or diminish this obligation.
      (3)   If the work is being performed under an order issued under §
153.03(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4), the work may be performed by a contractor who
has been awarded a base bid contract to perform the work for the enforcement
authority, or by the Town Council, acting through its enforcement authority or
other governmental agency and using its own workers and equipment owned or
leased by it. Work performed under an order issued under §
153.03(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) may be performed without further notice to the
persons holding a fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a
contract purchaser, and these persons are liable for the cost incurred by the
enforcement authority in processing the matter and performing the work, as
provided by §
153.09.
   (B)   Bids may be solicited and accepted for work on more than one property
if the bid reflects an allocation of the bid amount among the various unsafe
premises in proportion to the work to be accomplished. The part of the bid
amount attributable to each of the unsafe premises constitutes the basis for
calculating the part of the costs described by §
153.09(A)(1).
   (C)   All persons who have a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises and are subject to an order other than an order under §
153.03(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) must be notified about the public bid in the
manner prescribed by §
153.15, by means of a written statement including:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order was issued;
      (2)   A legal description or address of the unsafe premises that are the
subject of the order;
      (3)   A statement that a contract is to be let at public bid to a
licensed contractor to accomplish work to comply with the order;
      (4)   A description of work to be accomplished;
      (5)   A statement that both the bid price of the licensed contractor who
accomplishes the work and an amount representing a reasonable estimate of the
cost incurred by the enforcement authority in processing the matter of the
unsafe premises may, if not paid, be recorded after a hearing as a lien against
all persons having a fee interest, life estate interest or equitable interest
of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises;
      (6)   The time of the bid opening;
      (7)   The place of the bid opening; and
      (8)   The name, address and telephone number of the enforcement
authority.
   (D)   If the notice of the statement that public bids are to be let is
served by publication, the publication must include the information required by
division (C) above, except that it need only include a general description of
the work to be accomplished. The publication must also slate that a copy of the
statement of the public bid may be obtained from the enforcement authority.
   (E)   Notice of the statement that public bids are to be let must be given,
at least ten days before the date of the public bid, to all persons who have a
substantial property interest in the property and are subject to an order other
than an order under §
153.03(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4).
   (F)   If action is being taken under this section on the basis of an order
that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve the statement that
public bids are to be let by publication, unless the enforcement authority has
received information in writing that enables it to make service under §
153.15 by a method other than publication.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.09 LIABILITY FOR COSTS FOR PERFORMANCE OF WORK REQUIRED BY ORDERS.
   (A)   When action required by order is performed by the enforcement
authority or by a contractor acting under §
153.08, each person who held a fee interest, life estate or equitable interest
of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises from the time when the order
requiring the work performed was recorded to the time that the work was
completed is jointly and severally responsible for the following costs:
      (1)   The actual cost of the work performed by the enforcement authority
or the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor under §
153.08; and
      (2)   An amount that represents a reasonable forecast of the average
processing expense that will be incurred by the enforcement authority in taking
the technical, administrative and legal actions concerning typical unsafe
premises that are necessary under this chapter so that the action required by
an order may be performed by a contractor under §
153.08. In calculating the amount of the average processing expense, the
following cost may be considered:
         (a)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity
and location of persons who own substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises;
         (b)   The cost of notice of orders, notice of statements of
rescission, notice of continued hearing, notice of statements that public bids
are to be let or that the enforcement authority intends to accomplish the work,
and notice that a hearing may be held on the amounts indicated in the record,
in accordance with §
153.15;
         (c)   Salaries for employees; and
         (d)   The cost of supplies, equipment and office space.
   (B)   The Town Council shall determine the amount of the average processing
expense at the public hearing, after notice has been given in the same manner
as is required for other official action by the Town Council. In determining
the average processing expense, the Town Council may fix the amount as a full
dollar amount that is an even multiple of ten.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.10 NOTICE OF UNPAID COSTS; FILING WITH CLERK OF COURT; HEARING; JUDGEMENT
LIEN.
   (A)   (1)   If all or any part of the costs listed in §
153.09 remain unpaid for any unsafe premises (other than premises owned by a
governmental entity) for more than 15 days after the completion of the work,
the enforcement authority does not act under §
153.11, and the enforcement authority determines that there is a reasonable
probability of obtaining recovery, the enforcement authority shall prepare a
record stating:
         (a)   The name and last known address of each person who held a fee
interest, life estate interest or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in
the unsafe premises from the time the order requiring the work to be performed
was recorded to the time that the work was completed;
         (b)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that
were the subject of work;
         (c)   The nature of the work that was accomplished;
         (d)   The amount of the unpaid bid price of the work that was
accomplished; and
         (e)   The amount of the unpaid average processing expense.
      (2)   The record must be in a form approved by the state board of
accounts.
   (B)   The enforcement authority, or its head, shall swear to the accuracy of
the record before the Clerk of the Circuit Court and deposit the record in the
Clerk’s office. Notice that the record has been filed and that a hearing on the
amounts indicated in the record may be held must be sent to the persons named
in the record, in the manner prescribed by §
153.15.
   (C)   A judgment by the Circuit Court, to the extent that it is not
satisfied under I.C. 27-2-15-1 et seq., is a debt and a lien on all the real
and personal property of the person named, or a joint and several debt and lien
on real and personal property of the persons named. The lien on real property
is perfected against all creditors and purchasers when the judgment is entered
on the judgment docket of the court. The lien on personal property is perfected
by filing a lis pendens notice in the appropriate filing office, as prescribed
by the state rules of trial procedure.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.11 UNPAID COSTS FOR UNSAFE PREMISES REPAIRS; NOTICE; CERTIFICATION AS
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; COLLECTION AS DELINQUENT TAXES; DISPOSITION OF COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   This section does not apply to the collection of an amount if a court
determines under §
153.10 that the enforcement authority is not entitled to the amount.
   (B)   If all or any part of the cost listed in §
153.09 remain unpaid for any unsafe premises (other than unsafe premises owned
by a governmental entity) for more than 15 days after completion of the work,
the enforcement authority may send notice under §
153.15 to each person who held a fee interest, life estate interest or an
equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises. The notice
must require full payment of the amount owed within 30 days.
   (C)   If full payment of the amount owed is not made less than 30 days after
the notice is delivered, the enforcement officer may certify the following
information to the County Auditor:
      (1)   The name of each person who held a fee interest, life estate
interest or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises;
      (2)   The description of the unsafe premises, as shown by the records of
the County Auditor; and
      (3)   The amount of the delinquent payment, including all costs described
in §
153.09.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall place the total amount certified under
division (C) above on the tax duplicate for the affected property as a special
assessment. The total amount, including accrued interest, shall be collected as
delinquent taxes are collected.
   (E)   An amount collected under division (D) above, after all other taxes
have been collected and disbursed, shall be disbursed to the Unsafe Building
Fund.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.12 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   The Unsafe Building Fund is hereby created.
   (B)   Money for the Unsafe Building Fund may be received from any source,
including appropriations by local, state or federal governments, and donations.
      (1)   The Unsafe Building Fund shall also be established in the operating
budget. Any balance remaining at the end of a fiscal year shall be carried over
in the fund for the following year and does not revert to the General Fund.
      (2)   The following money shall be deposited in the fund:
         (a)   Money received as payment for or settlement of obligations or
judgments established under §§
153.06 through
153.10 and I.C. 36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22;
         (b)   Money received from bonds posted under I.C. 36-7-9-20;
         (c)   Money received in satisfaction of receivers’ notes or
certificates that were issued under I.C. 36-7-9-20 and were purchased with
money from the Unsafe Building Fund;
         (d)   Money received for payment or settlement of civil penalties
imposed under §
153.05; and
         (e)   Money received from the collection of special assessments under
§
153.11.
   (C)   Money in the Unsafe Building Fund may be used for the expenses
incurred in carrying out the purposes of this chapter, including:
      (1)   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity and
location of each person who owns a substantial property interest in unsafe
premises;
      (2)   The cost of an examination of an unsafe building by a registered
architect or registered engineer not employed by the town;
      (3)   The cost of surveys necessary to determine the location and
dimensions of real property on which an unsafe building is located;
      (4)   The cost of giving notice of orders, notice of statements of
rescission, notice of continued hearing and notice of statements that public
bids are to be let in the manner prescribed by §
153.15;
      (5)   The bid price of work by a contractor under §§
153.07 or
153.14;
      (6)   The cost of emergency action under §
153.06; and
      (7)   The cost of notes or receivers’ certificates issued under I.C. 36-
7-9-20.
   (D)   Payment of money from the Unsafe Building Fund must be made in
accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.13 INSPECTION WARRANTS.
   (A)   If the owners or those in possession of a building refuse inspection,
an inspection officer of the enforcement authority may seek an inspection
warrant from any court of record in the county in which the building is located
in order to determine if the building is an unsafe building.
   (B)   The person seeking the warrant:
      (1)   Must establish that the building to be searched or inspected is to
be searched or inspected as part of a legally authorized program of inspection
that naturally includes the building, or that there is probable cause for
believing that a condition, object, activity or circumstance legally justifies
a search or inspection of that building.
      (2)   An affidavit establishing one of the grounds described in division
(A)(1) above must be signed under oath or affirmation by the affiant.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.14 CIVIL ACTIONS REGARDING UNSAFE PREMISES.
   The Town Council, acting through the enforcement authority or a person
designated by the enforcement authority, may bring a civil action regarding
unsafe premises in the Circuit, Superior or Municipal Court of the county.
Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-18 through 36-7-9-22, the civil action may request:
injunctions; civil forfeitures; appointment of receiver; court order
authorizing performance of work and judgment of cost; and/or an emergency court
order authorizing action to make premises safe and judgment for costs.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.15 MANNER OF SERVING NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of orders, notice of continued hearings without specified date,
notice of a statement that public bids are to be let, and notice of claims for
payment must be given by:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the order or statement by registered or certified
mail to the residence or place of business or employment of the person to be
notified, with return receipt requested;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the order or statement personally to the
person to be notified; or
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the order or statement at the dwelling or usual
place of abode of the person to be notified.
   (B)   If, after a reasonable effort, service is not obtained by a means
described in division (A) above, service may be made by publishing a notice of
the order or statement in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1-1 et seq. in the county
where the unsafe premises are located. However, publication may be made on
consecutive days. If service of an order is made by publication, the
publication must include the information required by §
153.03(B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(4), (B)(5), (B)(6), (B)(7) and (B)(9); and must also
include a statement indicating generally what action is required by the order
and that the exact terms of the order may be obtained from the enforcement
authority.
   (C)   When service is made by any means described in this section, except by
mailing or by publication, the person making service must make an affidavit
stating that he or she has made the service, the manner in which service was
made, to whom the order or statement was issued, the nature of the order or
statement, and the date of service. The affidavit must be placed on file with
the enforcement authority.
   (D)   The date when notice of the order or statement is considered given is
as follows.
      (1)   If the order or statement is delivered personally or left at the
dwelling or usual place of abode, notice is considered given on the day when
the order or statement is delivered to the person or left at his or her
dwelling or usual place of abode.
      (2)   If the order or statement is mailed, notice is considered given on
the date shown on the return receipt, or, if no date is shown, on the date when
the return receipt is received by the enforcement authority.
      (3)   Notice of publication is considered given on the date of the second
day that publication was made.
   (E)   Notice of orders, notice of continued hearings without a specified
date and notice of a statement that public bids are to be let need not be given
to a person holding a property interest in an unsafe premises if:
      (1)   No instrument reflecting the property interest held by the person
is recorded in the Recorder’s office of the county where the unsafe premises is
located;
      (2)   The order or statement was recorded in accordance with §
153.16; and
      (4)   The enforcement authority has received neither written information
nor actual notice of the identity of the person who holds a property interest
in the unsafe premises.
   (F)   A person who failed to record an instrument reflecting an interest in
his or her unsafe premises is considered to consent to action taken under this
chapter relative to which notice would otherwise be given.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.16 RECORDING OF ORDERS, STATEMENTS OF RESCISSION, STATEMENTS OF PUBLIC
BIDS AND RECORDS OF ACTIONS TAKEN BY HEARING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The enforcement authority shall record in the office of the County
Recorder orders issued under §§
153.03 or
153.04(A), statements of rescission issued under §
153.04(B), statements that public bids are to be let under §
153.08, and records of action in which an order is affirmed, modified or
rescinded taken by the hearing authority under §
153.05.
   (B)   A person who takes an interest in unsafe premises that are the subject
of an order takes that interest, whether or not a hearing has been held,
subject to the terms of the order and in such a manner that all of the
requirements of §§
153.07 and
153.08 and any court action taken pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22
relating to the issuance of orders, service of orders and affirmation of orders
are considered satisfied. If a hearing has been held, the interest is taken
subject to the terms of the order as modified at the hearing and in such a
manner that all of the requirements of §§
153.07 and §
153.08 and any court action taken pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22
relating to the issuance of orders, service of orders, and modification of
orders at hearing are considered satisfied.
   (C)   A person who takes an interest in unsafe premises that are the subject
of a statement that public bids are to be let takes the interest subject to the
terms of the statement and in such a manner that the notice of the statement
required by §
153.08 is considered given to the person.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.17 TRANSFERS OF PROPERTY BY PERSON NOT COMPLYING WITH ORDERS.
   (A)   A person who has been issued and has received notice of an order
relative to unsafe premises and has not complied with that order:
      (1)   Must supply full information regarding the order to a person who
takes or agrees to take a substantial properly interest in the unsafe premises
before transferring or agreeing to transfer that interest; and
      (2)   Must, within five days after transferring or agreeing to transfer a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises, supply the enforcement
authority with written copies of:
         (a)   The full name, address and telephone number of the person taking
a substantial property interest in the unsafe premises; and
         (b)   The legal instrument under which the transfer or agreement to
transfer the substantial property interest is accomplished.
   (B)   If a judgment is obtained against the town, any of its agents or other
governmental entity for the failure of that entity to provide notice to persons
holding an interest in unsafe premises in an action taken by the entity under
this chapter, a person who failed to comply with this section is liable to the
entity for the amount of the judgment if it can be shown that the entity’s
failure to give notice was a result of that person’s failure.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.18 VIOLATIONS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-28, a person who does any of the following commits a
Class C infraction. Each day that the violation continues constitutes a
separate offense:
   (A)   Remains in, uses or enters a building in violation of an order made
under this chapter;
   (B)   Knowingly interferes with or delays the carrying out of an order made
under this chapter;
   (C)   Knowingly obstructs, damages or interferes with persons engaged or
property used in performing any work or duty under this chapter; or
   (D)   Fails to comply with I.C. 36-7-9-27 (referred to as §
153.17).
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 153.19 APPEALS.
   (A)   An action taken under §
153.05(D) is subject to review by the Circuit or Superior Court of the county
in which the unsafe premises are located, on request of:
      (1)   Any person who has a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises; or
      (2)   Any person to whom that order was issued.
   (B)   A person requesting judicial review under this section must file a
verified authority. The complaint must be filed within ten days after the date
when the action was taken.
(Ord. 2003-T-025, passed 3-10-2003)
CHAPTER 154: CONSTRUCTION; EQUIPMENT; NEW STRUCTURES
Section
   
154.01   Use of heavy construction equipment upon the streets, alleys and
roadways prohibited
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 USE OF HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT UPON THE STREETS, ALLEYS AND
ROADWAYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition of heavy construction equipment for the purpose of this
chapter. Any type of construction equipment tracked, or tired that would cause
damage to the streets, alleys and roadways, such as, but not limited to, bull
dozers, excavators and the like.
   (B)   Requirements of compliance with this chapter.
      (1)   Persons or person wishing to excavate a property using heavy
construction equipment may transport equipment to construction site using
typical truck and trailer used to transport this type of equipment on the
streets, alleys and roadways, but must unload equipment onto area to be
excavated without using the streets, alleys and roadways of the town.
      (2)   After the loading or unloading of such equipment the owner of truck
and trailer used for transportation of the heavy construction equipment shall
not park the truck and trailer as to where it impedes the flow of traffic on
the streets, alleys and roadways of the town.
   (C)   Exempted from this section. The town water utility and streets,
alleys, roadway maintenance (grading, asphalting, resurfacing, replacing and
installing culverts) performed by or on the behalf of the town.
   (D)   Enforcement. Enforcement of this section shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-
1-6-2, I.C. 36-1-6-3 or I.C. 36-1-6-4 or a successor statute if said statute is
repealed.
   (E)   Effect. Any unlawful provision found in this section shall not effect
the remaining provision.
(Ord. 2010-T-061, passed 8-31-2010) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   If failure to comply with §
154.01 will require the Town Marshal’s Department to obtain a court order to
stop excavation using such heavy construction equipment operating on roadways,
streets and alleys within the corporate limits of the town, a fine of $500 per
day will occur for each day the violation continues after Marshal issuing the
citation while obtaining a court order to stop the excavation. If levied fines
are not paid within 30 days then a lien will be sought against person’s
property, who is the owner of the property being excavated in accordance with
I.C. 36-1-6-2 plus attorney fees and court cost.
      (2)   Persons or person who is the owner or owners of such property shall
be responsible for a any repair construction work required. Repairs to be
completed within 14 days upon notice to correct any damage to roadways
(streets, alleyways) caused by such heavy construction equipment, to the
satisfaction of the Town Council. If the Town Council deems it necessary to
hire another party to perform such repairs, the owner or owners of such
property shall be responsible for those costs. If levied costs are not paid
within 30 days then a lien will be sought against person’s property, who is the
owner of the property where heavy construction equipment was used in accordance
with I.C. 36-1-6-2 plus attorney fees and court cost.
      (3)   The town may pursue any and all penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-
3 in addition to the penalties described in I.C. 36-1-6-4 plus attorney fees
and court cost, or a successor statute if said statute is repealed.
      (4)    Furthermore, if the condition of said real estate has not been
corrected within 30 days, the town may cause to be certified to the County
Auditor as a charge against the taxes due and payable to the County Treasurer
in the following year together with attorney fees and court cost in accordance
with I.C. 36-1-6-2 or successor statute, if said statute is repealed.
(Ord. 2010-T-061, passed 8-31-2010)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES
Section
   
155.01   Zoning Ordinance
   
155.02   Zoning map
   
155.03   Subdivision Control Ordinance
§ 155.01 ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The Town of Greenville Zoning Ordinance, as it may be amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted by reference by the Town Council of the Town of
Greenville, Indiana.
(Ord. 2022-TO-017, passed 10-10-2022; Ord. 2024-TO-001, passed 1-8-2024)
§ 155.02 ZONING MAP.
   The Town of Greenville Zoning Map, as it may be amended from time to time,
is hereby adopted by reference by the Town Council of the Town of Greenville,
Indiana.
(Ord. 2022-TO-016, passed 10-10-2022)
§ 155.03 SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE.
   The Town of Greenville Subdivision Control Ordinance, as it may be amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference by the Town Council of the
Town of Greenville, Indiana.
(Ord. 2022-TO-015, passed 10-10-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   NAMING AND RENAMING OF STREETS
      
IV.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
2005-T-045 5-9-2005    Annexing an 18.03-acre parcel of land in Section 5,
                       Township 2 South, Range 5 East, Greenville Township
2005-T-053 12-12-2005  Annexing land commencing at the south quarter corner of
                       Section 32, Township 1 South, Range 5 East
2007-T-081 1-14-2008   Annexes land being a part of a certain 14.66-acre parcel
                       of land in Section 5, Township 2 South, Range 5 East
2009-T-035 11-24-2009  Annexes part of Section 4, Township 2 South, Range 5
                       East
2010-T-013 4-12-2010   Annexes part of Section 4, Township 2 South, Range 5
                       East
2010-T-035 8-9-2010    Annexes land commonly known as 8969 Highway 150
                      
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        10-13-1902  Grants a railway franchise to New Albany, Paoli and French
                     Lick Valley Traction Co.
                    
 
TABLE III: NAMING AND RENAMING OF STREETS
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
2018-TO-032 - -         Names a road Normal J. Colman Drive
2009-R-019  5-11-2009   Renaming of Woodland Drive to Hanzel Barclay Drive
2017-TO-032 12-11-2017  Names a road John Baptiste Ford Drive
                       
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
2007-T-072  4-9-2007    Vacates a 16-foot unimproved alley
2007-T-080  1-14-2008   Vacates a 16-foot unimproved alley
2010-T-013  7-6-2010    Vacates two unimproved public ways
2011-TO-001 1-10-2010   Vacates an unimproved public way
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Reference Code Section
I.C. Reference              Code Section
1-1-1-5                     10.04
1-1-1-7                     10.12
1-1-1-8                     10.06
1-1-4-5                     10.05
1-1-5-1                     10.11
1-1-6-1                     10.08
4-21.5 et seq.              55.12
4-22-2                      153.03
5-3-1                       153.05
5-3-1 et seq.               52.01
5-3-1 through 5-3-1-9       52.01
5-3-1-1 et seq.             153.15
5-11-10-2                   33.01
5-14-1.5                    113.21
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.          32.08
5-14-3-3(a)(2)              32.07,
                            33.02
5-14-3-3(I)                 32.07
5-14-3-8(C)                 32.07
5-14-3-8(C) through (E)     33.02
6-1.1-17-3                  32.06
6-2.5-3-1(C)                110.01
6-2.5-8-1(1)(A)             110.01
6-2.5-8-1(1)(H)             110.01
6-2.5-8-1(1)(F)             110.01
8-1.5                       51.03
8-1.5-3-3                   51.02
8-1.5-3-7                   51.03
8-1.5-3-8.1                 52.01
8-1.5-3-8.2                 52.01
8-1.5-3-3(a)(2)             51.02
8-23-20                     110.02
9-13-2-1                    92.01
9-21-5                      70.06
9-21-5 et seq.              Ch. 72, Sch. I
10-14-3-12                  32.08
10-14-3-29                  32.08
12-13-5                     113.15
12-15                       113.15
15-11-7-1                   90.25
15-17-11-1 et seq.          90.28
16-20 et seq.               55.02
16-20-1-1                   55.13
16-20-1-1 et seq.           110.04
16-20-1-10                  113.21
16-20-1-25(c)               113.20
16-20-1-26                  113.18
16-20-1-27                  113.17
16-20-2-16                  113.15
16-20-8-5                   113.19
16-20-8-6                   113.19
16-41-31                    113.15
16-42-5-4                   113.15
22-9-1                      91.01
22-11-14-1                  135.02
22-11-14-10.5               135.02
23-2-4                      113.15
27-2-15-1 et seq.           153.10
34-7                        55.13
34-28-6-1                   131.02
35-47-2 et seq.             33.05
35-47-2-3                   33.05
35-47-2-3(h)                33.05
36-1-3-8(a)(10)             10.99
                            54.10,
                            92.02,
36-1-6-1                    110.02,
                            111.99,
                            131.02,
                            152.01
                            54.10,
                            53.06,
                            53.99,
                            54.99,
                            90.99,
                            92.02,
                            92.99,
                            111.99,
                            114.23,
                            114.99,
36-1-6-2                    110.02,
                            110.99,
                            130.04,
                            130.99,
                            131.02,
                            131.99,
                            132.99,
                            135.99,
                            150.04,
                            150.99,
                            154.01,
                            154.99
                            53.06,
                            53.99,
                            54.10,
                            54.99,
                            71.04,
                            90.12,
                            90.99,
                            92.01,
                            92.02,
                            92.99,
                            110.01,
                            110.02,
                            110.99,
                            111.15,
                            111.99,
36-1-6-3                    113.03,
                            113.99,
                            114.23,
                            114.99,
                            130.04,
                            130.99,
                            131.02,
                            131.99,
                            132.99,
                            132.08,
                            135.04,
                            135.99,
                            150.04,
                            150.99,
                            154.01,
                            154.99
36-1-6-3(2)                 135.04
                            32.07,
                            33.01,
                            53.06,
                            54.10,
                            71.99,
                            90.12,
                            92.01,
                            92.02,
                            92.99,
                            110.01,
36-1-6-4                    110.02,
                            111.15,
                            111.99,
                            113.03,
                            114.23,
                            131.02,
                            132.08,
                            132.99,
                            135.04,
                            150.04,
                            154.01
36-5-2-10.2                 32.07
36-5-3-3                    32.06
36-5-7-6                    30.01,
                            30.03
36-7-9-1 et seq.            153.01
36-7-9-20                   153.12
36-7-9-27                   153.18
36-7-9-28                   153.18
36-7-9-17 through 36-7-9-22 153.12,
                            153.16
36-7-9-18 through 36-7-9-22 153.14
36-8-2-4                    114.23
36-8-2-10                   114.23
36-8-3-20                   30.03
36-8-11-4(b)                30.02 ,
                            30.08
36-9-2-14                   51.02
                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.          Date Passed Code Section
-                 12-12-2005  30.06
2006-W-69         12-11-2006  51.03
2015-TR-034       7-13-2015   32.02
21-TO-011         6-14-2021   32.08
2022-TR-00023   -14-2022    151.01
                             
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.       Date Passed Code Section
-              - -         150.02
2018-TO-032    - -         TSO Table III
-              10-13-1902  TSO Table II
-              8-1-1936    110.05
1              12-10-1979  91.01
1994-02        6-7-1994    51.01
                           55.01 through
1997-T-04      11-11-1997  55.14,
                           56.01 through
                           56.08
2003-T-025     3-10-2003   153.01 through
                           153.19
2004-W-36      8-9-2004    52.03
2005-T-045     5-9-2005    TSO, Table I
2005-T-046     6-13-2005   33.02
2005-T-053     12-12-2005  TSO, Table I
2007-T-072     4-9-2007    TSO Table IV
2007-T-080     1-14-2008   TSO Table IV
2007-T-081     1-14-2008   TSO, Table I
2007-T-82      1-14-2008   30.01
-              5-12-2008   113.15 through
                           113.22
2008-T-93      2-9-2009    33.05
2009-T-004     2-9-2009    30.03
2009-T-001     3-9-2009    32.07
2009-T-017     4-27-2009   30.04
2009-T-015     4-27-2009   110.04
2009-R-018     5-4-2009    32.04
2009-R-019     5-11-2009   TSO Table III
2009-R-021     5-18-2009   32.05
2009-R-031     6-8-2009    31.01
2009-R-057     8-10-2009   51.05
2009-R-063     10-12-2009  32.06
2009-T-035     11-24-2009  TSO Table I
2011-TO-001    1-10-2010   TSO Table IV
2010-T-001     2-8-2010    51.02
2010-M-004     2-22-2010   30.05
                           112.01 through
2010-T-018     4-10-2010   112.30,
                           112.99
2010-T-013     4-12-2010   TSO Table I
2010-T-019     4-12-2010   55.06
2010-T-020     4-12-2010   90.25 through
                           90.28
2010-T-037     6-22-2010   90.26
2010-T-013     7-6-2010    TSO Table IV
2010-T-035     8-9-2010    TSO Table I
2010-R-034     8-9-2010    32.01
2010-M-044     8-9-2010    33.04
2010-M-041     8-16-2010   33.06
2010-M-030     8-16-2010   70.99
                           71.01 through
2010-T-049     8-16-2010   71.04,
                           71.99
2010-T-046     8-16-2010   92.01,
                           92.99
2010-T-048     8-16-2010   110.01,
                           110.99
                           113.01 through
2010-T-027     8-16-2010   113.03,
                           113.99
                           90.01 through
2010-T-056     8-30-2010   90.12,
                           90.99
                           111.01,
2010-T-055     8-30-2010   111.02,
                           111.15,
                           111.99
                           132.01 through
2010-T-054     8-30-2010   132.08,
                           132.99
2010-M-031     8-31-2010   70.01,
                           70.99
                           130.01 through
2010-T-059     8-31-2010   130.04,
                           130.99
2010-T-058     8-31-2010   134.01,
                           134.99
                           135.01 through
2010-T-057     8-31-2010   135.04,
                           135.99
2010-T-061     8-31-2010   154.01,
                           154.99
                           54.01 through
2010-W-066     10-25-2010  54.10,
                           54.99
2010-R-082     11-8-2010   32.07
2010-R-081     11-8-2010   51.04
2010-T-068     12-13-2010  110.02,
                           110.99
2011-TO-013    2-14-2011   150.04,
                           150.99
                           53.01 through
2011-WO-017    3-14-2011   53.06,
                           53.99
2011-021       3-14-2011   113.20
2011-TR-036    6-13-2011   32.03
2011-TR-032    6-13-2011   33.03
2011-TO-035    6-13-2011   92.01,
                           92.99
2011-MO-041    7-11-2011   Ch. 72, Sch. II
2011-MO-042    7-18-2011   92.01,
                           92.99
                           114.01 through
2011-TO-019    7-18-2011   114.23,
                           114.99
                           131.01,
2012-MO-031    6-11-2012   131.02,
                           131.99
2013-WR-021    4-8-2013    50.01
2013-WR-039    8-12-2013   50.01
2013-MR-053    10-14-2013  Ch. 72, Sch. III
2013-W-051     11-11-2013  52.01
2013-MO-060    12-9-2013   70.99
2015-WO-025    5-11-2015   52.02
2016-TO-005    3-14-2016   151.01
2016-WO-014    4-11-2016   52.01
2016-TR-028    9-12-2016   31.02
2016-TO-026    9-12-2016   92.02,
                           92.99
2017-TR-003    2-13-2017   31.02
2017-TO-006    2-13-2017   33.01
2017-TO-032    12-11-2017  TSO Table III
                           133.01 through
2018-TO-045    1-8-2018    133.05,
                           133.99
2018-TO-014    4-9-2018    33.21
2018-WO-030    8-13-2018   33.20
2019-TO-002    2-11-2019   93.01
2019-TO-003    2-11-2019   93.01
2019-TO-008    4-8-2019    110.02
2019-TO-030    4-23-2019   30.02
2020-WO-001    1-13-2020   33.08
2020-TO-004    2-10-2020   33.07
2020-T-006     4-13-2020   90.13,
                           90.99
2020-W-015     10-12-2020  52.04
2020-TO-018    11-9-2020   30.07
2021-WW-006    6-14-2021   33.22
2021-TO-009  6-14-2021   Adopting Ordinance
                           70.02 through
2021-TO-015    12-13-2021  70.07,
                           70.99,
                           Ch. 72, Sch. I
2022-WO-008    6-6-2022    50.02
2022-WO-009    6-6-2022    52.04
2022-WO-011    7-26-2022   52.01
2022-TO-13     9-12-2022   111.02
2022-TO-015    10-10-2022  155.03
2022-TO-016  10-10-2022  155.02
2022-TO-017  10-10-2022  155.01
2023-TO-009    7-10-2023   30.08
2023-TO-014    8-14-2023   71.01,
                           71.99
2023-TO-015    8-14-2023   70.07,
                           70.99
2024-TO-001  1-8-2024    155.01
                          
 
