GREENSBURG, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-42 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through
Ordinance 2024-27, passed 12-10-24; and
State legislation current through Legislative Service, 2024 Acts, Pamphlet No.
3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1199a6242ee89836ad08ce88dd91846aa8857b3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3066.gif]
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
CITY OFFICIALS
MAYOR                       Joshua Marsh
CITY ATTORNEY               Christopher Stephen
CITY CLERK-TREASURER        Amy Borns
POLICE CHIEF                Mike McNealy
FIRE CHIEF                  Nathan Stoermer
WATER SUPERINTENDENT        Aaron Schwendenmann
SEWER SUPERINTENDENT        Joe Cain
STREET COMMISSIONER         Mark Klosterkemper
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROJECTS Zach Wirrig
                            
COUNCIL
COUNCILMEMBER               Jamie Cain (President)
COUNCILMEMBER               Kevin Fleetwood
COUNCILMEMBER               Rodney King
COUNCILMEMBER               Darrell Poling
COUNCILMEMBER               Mark Carman
COUNCILMEMBER               Vietta McKenzie
COUNCILMEMBER               Daryl Tressler
 
MUNICIPAL ADDRESS
314 W. Washington St.
Greensburg, IN 47240
Phone: 812-663-3344
www.greensburg.in.gov
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 1982-5
   ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF GREENSBURG,
INDIANA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID
CODE.
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Greensburg, Indiana,
are incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana empower
and authorize the Common Council of every city to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Common Council of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the City of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinances in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Common Council of the City of
Greensburg, Indiana, that:
   Section l. The general ordinances of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, as
herein revised, amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form are
adopted as and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of
Greensburg, Indiana."
   Section 2. Said Code as adopted in Section l shall consist of the following
titles, to-wit:
      Title I      General Provisions
      Title III   Administration
      Title V      Public Works
      Title VII   Traffic Code
      Title IX   General Regulations
      Title XI   Business Regulations
      Title XIII   General Offenses
      Title XV   Land Usage
      Table of Special Ordinances
      Parallel References
      Index
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said
code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code;
provided such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred
or any right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall
such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating
money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting
special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing
the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale
of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plats or
dedication of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries
of streets, alleys or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a
temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
   Section 4. Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Mayor, and the Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Greensburg,
Indiana, is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code in the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   Section 5. Said Code shall be in full force and effect two weeks from the
date of its publication and filing thereof in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer, and said Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Common Council of the City of Greensburg, Indiana,
this 7 day of June, 1982, at the hour of 7:45 o'clock p.m.
Sheldon Smith
Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
Presented to me by the Mayor of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, on this 7 day
of June, 1982, at the hour of 7:45 o'clock p.m.
David Hartwell
CLERK-TREASURER
This Ordinance approved and signed by me on the 7 day of June, 1982, at the
hour of 7:45 o'clock p.m.
Sheldon Smith
PRESIDING OFFICER
ORDINANCE NO. 1984-9
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
GREENSBURG, INDIANA
BE IT ORDAINED by the Common Council of the City of Greensburg:
Section 1.
   The general ordinances of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, having been
heretofore codified as the Code of Ordinances of Greensburg, Indiana, pursuant
to Ordinance No. 1982-5; the Common Council of the City of Greensburg hereby
directs that said Code be supplemented with Ordinance No. 1982-6 through and
including Ordinance 1984-5.
Section. 2.
   Said supplement of the day of its adoption and approval by the Mayor; and
the Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Greensburg is hereby authorized and ordered
to file the supplement with the original Code in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
Section. 3.
   Said supplement to the existing Code shall be in full force and effect three
weeks from the date of its publication and filing hereof in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer, and said supplement to the existing Code shall be presumptive
evidence in all Courts and places of the existing Ordinances as supplemented
through Ordinance No. 1984-5, and all provisions, sections, penalties, and
regulations therein contained and of the date of passage and also that the same
are properly signed, attested, recorded and approved and that any public
hearing and notices thereof as required by law is ordered given.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Common Council of the City of Greensburg, this 2nd
day of July, 1984.
Sheldon Smith
Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
Presented to me by the Mayor of the City of Greensburg, Indiana on this 2nd day
of July, 1984, at the hour of 8:00 o'clock P.M.
David Hartwell
Clerk-Treasurer
This Ordinance approved and signed by me on this 2nd day of July, 1984, at the
hour of 8:00 o'clock P.M.
Sheldon Smith
Presiding Officer
ORDINANCE 1986-7
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF GREENSBURG, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Company of Cincinnati, Ohio has completed
the 1986 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Greensburg, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Company has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, adoption of these recommendations would bring those sections of the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Greensburg into conformance with the Indiana
Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Common Council of the City of
Greensburg, State of Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1986 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Greensburg, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Company of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
   Passed by the Common Council of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, this 28th
day of July, 1986, at the hour of 8:10 o'clock P.M.
Sheldon Smith
Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
David Hartwell
Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, for his
approval and signature this 28th day of July, 1986, at the hour of 8:10 o'clock
P.M.
David Hartwell
Clerk-Treasurer
   Approved and signed by me this 28th day of July, 1986, at the hour of 8:10
o'clock P.M.
Sheldon Smith
Mayor of the City of Greensburg, IN
ORDINANCE 1987-18
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF GREENSBURG, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Company of Cincinnati, Ohio has completed
the 1987 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Greensburg, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Company has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, adoption of these recommendations would bring those sections of the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Greensburg into conformance with the Indiana
Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Common Council of the City of
Greensburg, State of Indiana:
   SECTION l. That the 1987 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Greensburg, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Company of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
   Passed by the Common Council of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, this 5th
day of October, 1987, at the hour of 8:05 o'clock p.m.
Sheldon Smith /s/
Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
David Hartwell /s/ Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, for his
approval and signature this 5th day of October, 1987, at the hour of 8:05
o'clock p.m.
David Hartwell /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
   Approved and signed by me this 5th day of October, 1987, at the hour of 8:05
o'clock p.m.
Sheldon Smith /s/
Mayor of the City of Greensburg, IN
ORDINANCE 1988-18
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF GREENSBURG, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Company of Cincinnati, Ohio has completed
the 1988 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Greensburg, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Company has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, adoption of these recommendations would bring those sections of the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Greensburg into conformance with the Indiana
Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Common Council of the City of
Greensburg, State of Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1988 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Greensburg, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Company of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
   Passed by the Common Council of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, this 3rd
day of October, 1988, at the hour of 7:30 o'clock p.m.
Sheldon Smith /s/
Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
Peggy I. Dickson /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, for his
approval and signature this 3rd day of October, 1988, at the hour of 7:30
o'clock p.m.
Peggy I. Dickson /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
   Approved and signed by me this 3rd day of October, 1988, at the hour of 8:05
o'clock p.m.
Sheldon Smith /s/
Mayor of the City of Greensburg, IN
ORDINANCE 1989-27
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF GREENSBURG, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Company of Cincinnati, Ohio has completed
the 1989 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Greensburg, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Company has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, adoption of these recommendations would bring those sections of the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Greensburg into conformance with the Indiana
Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Common Council of the City of
Greensburg, State of Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1989 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Greensburg, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Company of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
   Passed by the Common Council of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, this 6th
day of November, 1989, at the hour of 7:40 o'clock p.m.
Sheldon Smith /s/
Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
Peggy I. Dickson /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, for his
approval and signature this 6th day of November 1989, at the hour of 7:30
o'clock p.m.
Peggy I. Dickson /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
   Approved and signed by me this 6th day of November, 1989, at the hour of 7:
40 o'clock p.m.
Sheldon Smith /s/
Mayor of the City of Greensburg, IN
ORDINANCE 1990-15
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF GREENSBURG, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1990 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Greensburg, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, adoption of these recommendations would bring those sections of the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Greensburg into conformance with the Indiana
Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Common Council of the City of
Greensburg, State of Indiana:
   SECTION l. That the 1990 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Greensburg, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
   Passed by the Common Council of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, this 6th
day of August, 1990, at the hour of 8:15 o'clock p.m.
Sheldon Smith /s/
Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
Peggy I. Dickson /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, for his
approval and signature this 6th day of August, 1990, at the hour of 8:15
o'clock p.m.
Peggy I. Dickson /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
   Approved and signed by me this 6th day of August, 1990, at the hour of 8:15
o'clock p.m.
Sheldon Smith /s/
Mayor of the City of Greensburg, IN
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.    GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of Code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of construction
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the Municipality
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Greensburg Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
('76 Code, § 1-1)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
('76 Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
Indiana Code.
   (B)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the Indiana
Code, the reference indicates that the section is analogous or similar to the
cited sections in the Indiana Code. Footnotes, cross-references, and other
comments are by way of explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the
text of any section.
   (C)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the municipal corporation unless otherwise
specifically provided.
   (D)   Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I not incompatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AND." May be read "OR, and "OR" may be read "AND," if the sense requires
it.
   "ANOTHER." When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   "CITY," "MUNICIPAL CORPORATION," or "MUNICIPALITY." The city of Greensburg,
Indiana.
   "CORPORATE LIMITS" or "CITY LIMITS." The legal boundaries of the city,
except as otherwise provided by law.
   "COUNCIL." The Common Council of the city.
   "COUNTY." The County of Decatur in the State of Indiana.
   "IC." Refers to the Indiana Code.
   "KEEPER" or "PROPRIETOR." Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves
or as a servant, agent, or employee.
   "LAND" or "REAL ESTATE." Includes rights and easements of incorporeal
nature.
   "MAY." The act referred to is permissive.
   "MAYOR." The Mayor of the city.
   "MONTH." A calendar month.
(IC 1-1-4-5)
   "OATH." Includes an affirmation.
   "OWNER." When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   "PERSON." Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms "PERSON" or "WHOEVER" as applied
to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   "PERSONAL PROPERTY." Includes all property except real.
   "POPULATION." Refers to the population according to the most recent federal
special or decennial census. This definition applies even if the reference is
to the most recent federal decennial census or corrected population count under
IC 1-1-3.5.
(IC 1-1-4-5)
   "PRECEDING" and "FOLLOWING." Next before and next after, respectively.
(IC 1-1-4-5)
   "PREMISES." As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   "PROPERTY." Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   "PUBLIC AUTHORITY." Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   "PUBLIC PLACE." Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   "QUORUM." A majority of the members of a board, commission, or committee
holding office, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
   "REAL PROPERTY." Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   "REGISTERED MAIL." Includes certified mail.
   "SHALL." The act referred to is mandatory.
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "SIGNATURE" or "SUBSCRIPTION." A mark when the person cannot write.
   "STATE." The State of Indiana.
   "STREET." Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   "SUBCHAPTER." A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
   "TENANT" or "OCCUPANT." As applied to premises, includes any person holding
a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   "WRITING." Includes any representation of words, letters, or figures,
whether by printing or otherwise.
   "YEAR." A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
"YEAR OF OUR LORD."
(IC 1-1-4-5)
(IC 1-1-4-1) ('76 Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
(IC -1-1-4-1)
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or ordinary and
usual, sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
(IC 1-1-4-1)
   (B)   As used in the code, unless the context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future.
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by these
rules, this code or by any ordinance, the day of the act, event, or default
from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included.
The last day of the period so computed is to be included unless it is a
Saturday; a Sunday; a legal holiday as defined by state statute; or a day the
office in which the act is to be done is closed during regular business hours.
In any event, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a
Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the office is closed.
When the period of time allowed is less than seven days, intermediate
Saturdays, Sundays, legal holidays, and days on which the office is closed
shall be excluded from the computations.
(IC Trial Rule 6 (A)).
      (2)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends of the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
   (D)   Act by assistants. When a statute requires an act to be done which, by
law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such requisition shall
be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized agent or deputy.
(IC 1-1-4-1)
   (E)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (F)   Joint authority. Words importing joint authority to three or more
persons shall be construed as authority to a majority of such persons, unless
otherwise declared in the law giving such authority.
(IC 1-1-4-1)
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
('76 Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(IC 1-1-1-8)
('76 Code, § 1-9)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word was clearly intended
to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word or words
supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest intention,
and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct words were
contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall be made or
permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of such error.
('76 Code, §§ 1-4 and 1-5)
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal law, shall
be the official time within the city of the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a reasonable
time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall
be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt performance of such
act or the giving of such notice.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see IC Trial Rule 6(A)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
('76 Code, § 1-8)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this code for which no penalty is
otherwise specifically provided shall be fined:
      (1)   Not more than $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   Except for violations of traffic or parking regulations, not more
than $7,500 for a second or subsequent violation.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a
violation occurs or continues.
('76 Code, § l-l0)
Statutory reference:
   For similar penalty restrictions under state law, see IC 36-1-3-8A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or
continues.
(IC 36-1-3-8) ('76 Code, § 1-10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY
      
32.   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY
      
33.   BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
         
APPENDIX:   EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT FORM
      
37.   PRECINCTS AND DISTRICTS
      
38.   CITY POLICY
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Elective officers
   
30.02   Salaries
   
30.03   Ward boundaries
   
30.04   Cumulative capital improvement fund
   
30.05   Promotional fund
   
30.06   Cumulative capital development fund
   
30.07   Payment of claims prior to allowance of the claim
   
30.08   Surcharge for dishonored checks, drafts and other instruments
   
30.09   City credit cards
   
30.10   ARP Grant Fund
   
30.11   Broadband policy
§ 30.01 ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The elective officers of the city shall be:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   Members of the Common Council
      (3)   Clerk-Treasurer
   (B)   These officers shall be elected in accordance with the provisions of
the state election law.
(IC 36-4-5-2, 36-4-6-2, and 36-4-10-2)
Statutory reference:
   Misconduct, see IC 36-4-8-3 and 36-4-8-5
   Residency requirements, see IC 36-4-5-2, 36-4-6-2, and 36-4-10-3
   Qualifications for office, see IC 36-4-5-2, 36-4-6-2, and 36-4-10-3
   Vacancy in office, see IC 3-13-8-1
§ 30.02 SALARIES.
   (A)   The compensation of elected city officials shall be as set from time
to time by the Council.
   (B)   The compensation of appointed officers and employees shall be as set
by the Mayor from time to time, subject to approval of the Common Council.
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Ch. 35
   Police Department, see
Ch. 34
Statutory reference:
   Fixing compensation of elective city officers, see IC 36-4-7-2
   Fixing salary of city appointive officers and employees, see IC 36-4-7-3
§ 30.03 WARD BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   North. Starting at a point at the end of West Hendricks, then go east
on Hendricks to Bennett Street, then go east on Bennett to Ireland Street.
Including all homes on north side of Hendricks and Bennett Streets, then north
on Ireland to Michigan Avenue, then east on Michigan to Central, then East on
Central to alley between Franklin and Broadway. Including homes on north side
of Michigan and Central, then go north to a point between Jorim Drive and Fifth
Street, then east to north side of Lincoln, then north to Tenth Street, then
west on Tenth Street. Including all homes on south side of Tenth Street to
Broadway, then north on Broadway to city limits including those homes on west
side of Broadway.
   (B)   South. Starting at a point at the end of East Central, then go west on
Central Avenue to the alley between Franklin and Broadway. Including all homes
on south side of Central Avenue, then go south to city limits.
   (C)   East. Starting at a point at the end of East Central all homes on the
north side of Central to the alley between Franklin and Broadway, then north to
Fifth Street. Including homes on north side of Fifth Street, then go east on
Fifth to Lincoln Street, then north on Lincoln to Tenth Street, then go west on
Tenth Street to Broadway then north on Broadway to city limits. Including all
homes on north side of Tenth Street.
   (D)   West. Starting at a point at the end of West Hendricks, then go east
on Hendricks to Bennett Street, then east on Bennett to Ireland. Including all
homes on south side of Bennett and Hendricks Street, then north to Michigan
Avenue, then east on Michigan to Central Avenue. Including all homes on south
side of Central, then east on Central Avenue to the alley between Franklin and
Broadway, then go south to city limits.
§ 30.04 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, "CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT" shall mean the
construction or improvement of any city-owned property, including, but not
limited to, streets, thoroughfares, and sewers and the retirement of general
obligation bonds of the city issued for the purpose of construction of
improvements which would qualify for cumulative capital improvement funds, but
shall not include salaries of any public officials or employees, except those
directly chargeable to such improvements.
   (B)   A cumulative capital improvement fund is created into which the
proceeds of the cigarette taxes allotted to the city by reason of IC 6-7-1-
29.1, 6-7-1-30.1, and 6-7-1-31.1 shall be deposited. Such fund will be a
cumulative nonreverting fund and shall be used only for capital improvements.
All funds deposited into such cumulative capital improvement fund shall be
deposited as provided by statute and shall be used and expended as by statute
provided and not otherwise.
('76 Code, § 2-1) (Ord. 1965-l, passed 5-3-65)
Cross-reference:
   County parks and recreation nonreverting capital fund, see
§ 33.41
   County parks and recreation nonreverting operating fund, see
§ 33.42
   Firemen's pension fund, see
§ 35.04
   Joint city-county airport board fund, see
§ 33.14
   Off-street parking fund, see § 72.25
§ 30.05 PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   (A)    A fund, the Greensburg promotional fund is hereby established. The
Common Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the general
fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the
betterment and best interests of the city.
   (B)    The purpose of this fund is to pay expenses or authorize donations
and expenditures to promote the best interest of the city. Such expenses may
include, but are not necessarily limited to the following:
      (1)   Rental of meeting places;
      (2)   Meals and food;
      (3)   Decorations, memorabilia, awards, plaques, certificates, and
commemorative keys;
      (4)   Donations to support civic, community, or educational activities
that provide betterment and improvement of the city;
      (5)   Travel, meal, parking, and lodging expenses directly related to
city business, functions, and operations;
      (6)   Membership dues in local, regional, state, and national
associations of civic, educational, or governmental nature, which have as their
purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (7)   Training, educational, and food expenses incurred in developing
relations with other units of government; and
      (8)   Expenses incurred in interviewing job applicants and expenses
incurred in training and educating employees and staff.
   (C)   No expenses shall be allowed from this fund without prior
authorization and approval by the Mayor. Claims for expenses under this section
shall be allowed as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 6-7-82; Am. Ord. 2017-25, passed 12-19-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
37, passed 1-6-20)
§ 30.06 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is reestablished a cumulative capital development fund for all
uses as set out in IC 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   The fund will not exceed $0.0500 on each $100 of assessed valuation
for taxes payable in 2025 and thereafter, continuing until reduced or
rescinded.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1988-7, passed 6-6-88; Am. Ord. 2024-05,
passed 4-9-24)
§ 30.07 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS PRIOR TO ALLOWANCE OF THE CLAIM.
   (A)   As allowed by IC 36-4-8-14, the Clerk-Treasurer may disburse money for
lawful city purposes as specified in this section.
   (B)   With the prior written approval of the city board having jurisdiction
over the allowance of the claim, the Clerk-Treasurer may make claim payments in
advance of allowance by the city board having jurisdiction over the allowance
of the claim for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions.
      (2)   License or permit fees.
      (3)   Insurance premiums.
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute.
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements.
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements.
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments.
      (10)   Payroll.
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes.
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
      (13)    Expenses described in an ordinance.
      (14)   Cost of meetings.
      (15)   Postage.
      (16)   Fees to record documents.
      (17)   Supplies.
      (18)   Daily incidental expenses.
      (19)   Garbage/trash tipping fees.
      (20)   Events/festivals claims.
   (C)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   The city board having jurisdiction over the allowance of the claim
shall review and allow the claim at its next regular or special meeting
following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2008-28, passed 12-1-08)
§ 30.08 SURCHARGE FOR DISHONORED CHECKS, DRAFTS AND OTHER INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   Application. This section shall apply to any person who tenders a
check, draft, order, or like instrument to any department or office of the
city.
   (B)   Surcharge. If a check, draft order or like instrument tendered to the
city is dishonored or returned unpaid for any reason, the city shall charge and
collect from the maker or drawer, or the person for whose benefit the
instrument was given, an amount not to exceed $20 plus an amount equal to the
actual charge by the depository institution for each returned or dishonored
instrument. The charge shall not be considered an interest charge, a finance
charge, a time-price differential, or any charge of a similar nature.
   (C)   Notice; collection by city; referral of dishonored checks to
Prosecuting Attorney.
      (1)   Notice. When a surcharge is imposed under division (B) above, the
city shall notify the maker or drawer, or the person for whose benefit the
instrument was given, by letter sent via U.S. Mail at the address posted on the
check, draft, order, or the like if available, and inform the person that the
instrument was dishonored or returned unpaid and that the person has ten days
after the date the notice is mailed to pay the total amount due, including the
surcharge, in either cash, by certified check, or other guaranteed payment.
      (2)    Collection by city. If the person fails to make payment within the
ten-day period, the city may refer the matter to a collection agency for
collection, or the city may file a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount due to the city, including any surcharges, court
costs and reasonable attorneys fees.
      (3)    Referral to Decatur County Prosecutor's Office. In addition, if
the city is unable to obtain payment of a dishonored check, the city shall
refer the matter to the prosecuting attorney for prosecution pursuant to IC 36-
1-8-13.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 4-6-09)
§ 30.09 CITY CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The city’s credit cards shall only be used for the payment of services
rendered on behalf of the city or for products being purchased by the city.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to obtain the following credit
cards for the following departments of city government:
Department
Department
Mayor
Clerk-Treasurer
Street Department
City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects
Fire Department
Police Department
Water Department
Wastewater Department
 
      (2)   The credit cards shall be issued with the following information
located on the charge plate:
         Name of Department
         City of Greensburg
      (3)   The credit cards shall be for use by city personnel, employees and
officials for purposes of incurring expenses for the ordinary, necessary,
reasonable and usual expenses to properly maintain and continue city operations
including authorized travel and training expenses, and the purchase of supplies
and equipment.
   (C)   (1)   No obligation shall be incurred, nor shall obligation be deemed
a valid obligation of the city, unless such obligation is for matter or matters
otherwise properly provided in the budget of the city.
      (2)   Further, no individual purchase shall exceed the sum of $1,000. No
credit card shall have a credit limit in excess of $5,000. Moreover, all
payments upon credit card shall be handled in a manner that is compliant with
the mandates of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
      (3)   The city shall not be responsible for any late fees, penalties or
interest associated with the failure of a department to timely provide proof of
purchase and necessity of payment for credit card purchases.
   (D)   (1)   All charges shall be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer for review.
Each department shall submit detailed, original receipt along with the detailed
statement from each credit card within seven days of the statement due date to
insure proper payment posting.
      (2)   If after review, the Clerk-Treasurer shall reasonably determine, in
its judgment, that an authorization has been incurred or expense made in the
name of the city, but is not properly chargeable as ordinary, necessary,
reasonable, and usual, and is not otherwise budgeted, then such charge or
expense shall be charged to the employee or official incurring the same and may
be deducted from any payment otherwise due the employee or official, at any
time thereafter, by way of deduction prior to issuance of any check or other
payment to be made to the employee or official.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall have exclusive control and possession of all
such credit cards as authorized by this chapter and shall control release,
issuance and availability of such cards as reasonably necessary in order to
prevent abuse or improper use.
      (1)   The City Department Heads shall be responsible for the credit card
that is assigned to his/her department. The Department Head shall control the
use and credit card shall be accountable while the credit card is in the
possession of the department.
      (2)   When the department does not require the use of the a credit card
the credit card shall be maintained in a secure place at all times within the
department and/or shall be returned to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   Upon demand by Mayor or City Council President, all cards shall be
promptly returned to the Clerk-Treasurer immediately.
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer may open accounts at appropriate financial
institutions for purposes of such cards, and when deemed necessary in the
Clerk-Treasurer’s sole judgment, close out immediately any such accounts solely
by the written notice signed by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (5)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the Mayor and City Council upon
opening and/or closing any credit card accounts.
      (6)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall secure possession of all of the credit
cards in possession of any individual or department and shall provide City
Council with a list of those credit cards along with the account numbers for
each.
      (7)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall further provide copies of the financial
statement for each of those credit cards that shall be deactivated and/or
cancelled.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 11-4-13)
§ 30.10 ARP GRANT FUND.
   (A)   All money received from the Local Fiscal Recovery Fund must be
receipted into a separate ARP grant fund known now as 176-ARP Grant.
   (B)   (1)   The purpose of this Fund is to follow the focal point
requirements of the US Treasury. Requirements state that to ensure
accountability and transparency of the use of these funds, all disbursements
must be made from the ARP Grant Fund and may not be transferred to another
fund.
      (2)   The Common Council shall require a detailed accounting of the uses
of ARP funds as prescribed by the State Board of Accounts. Supporting
documentation shall be maintained for every dollar disbursed and tied to a use
listed in Section 603(c) with adequate explanation.
      (3)   The fiscal body must assure internal controls be designed,
implemented, and documented to provide reasonable procedures have been followed
and funds will be safeguarded and used in accordance with the ARP.
   (C)   In order to distribute ARP funds, the Common Council must advertise an
appropriation ordinance of said funds and meeting dates for readings. Funds
shall only be used to cover costs incurred by December 31, 2024.
   (D)   The development of a formulated plan shall be used to establish
community priorities and create an investment plan for the funding. Under State
Examiners Directive 2021-1, funds may incur cost for:
      (1)   To respond to public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019, or its negative impacts;
      (2)   To respond to essential worker pay;
      (3)   To respond to and make provisions of government services, to the
extent of reduction in revenues due to the COVID-19;
      (4)   To respond and provide assistance or aid and document that this
action is in response to the PHE or its negative economic impacts; and/or
      (5)   To respond to making necessary investments in water, sewer or
broadband infrastructure and must be documented on the capital asset ledger in
accordance with the local capitalization policy.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 5-3-21)
§ 30.11 BROADBAND POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      "PERMIT.” Any local permit, license, certificate, approval, registration,
or similar form of approval required by policy, administrative rule,
regulation, ordinance, or resolution with respect to a project.
      “PROJECT.” The construction or development of wireline or wireless
communications facilities to provide communication services (as defined in IC
8-1-32.5-3) in a unit.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the City of Greensburg’s
ordinances, regulations, policies or practices, the following shall apply to a
project:
      (2)   The Mayor of the City of Greensburg shall:
         (a)   Appoint a single point of contact for all matters related to a
project;
         (b)   Establish procedures to allow all forms, applications, and
documentation related to a project to be filed or submitted and signed by
electronic means;
         (c)   Review and approve or reject all applications for a permit
related to a project within ten business days after an application is filed or
submitted; and
         (d)   Assure that after an application is approved pursuant to
division (B)(2)(c), any inspections, including any additional necessary
approvals, related to a project will occur in a timely and expeditious manner.
   (C)   The City of Greensburg, Indiana shall adopt adequate processes and
procedures to implement the provision of division (B). Processes and procedure
established hereunder may not do the following:
      (1)   Require an applicant to designate a final contractor to complete
the project;
      (2)   Impose a fee to review an application or issue a permit for a
project;
      (3)   Impose a seasonal moratorium on the issuance of permits for a
project;
      (4)   Discriminate among communications service providers or utilities
with respect to any action described in this section or otherwise related to a
project, including granting access to public rights-of-way, infrastructure and
poles, river and bridge crossings, and any other physical assets owned or
controlled by the City of Greensburg, Indiana.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-3-21)
CHAPTER 31: LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY
Section
   
31.01   Authority
   
31.02   Meetings
   
31.03   Special meetings
   
31.04   Quorum
   
31.05   Powers
   
31.06   Adoption of ordinances
   
31.07   Order and conduct of business
   
31.08   Composition of Council
   
31.09   Councilmanic districts
Statutory reference:
   Common Councils of cities, see IC 36-4-6-7, 36-4-6-10 through 36-4-6-12
   Exercise of legislative powers, see IC 36-4-4-4
§ 31.01 AUTHORITY.
   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in the Common Council.
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Clerk of Council, see IC 36-4-6-9
   General powers, see IC 36-4-6-18 and 36-4-6-21
   Legal Counsel authorized, see IC 36-4-6-24
   Mayor to preside, tie vote, see IC 36-4-6-8
   Number of Councilmen, see IC 36-4-6-4 and 36-4-6-5
   Passage of ordinances, see IC 36-4-6-12 through 36-4-6-16
§ 31.02 MEETINGS.
      The members-elect of the Common Council shall hold their first regular
meeting in the Council chamber at 7:00 p.m. on the first Monday in January
after their election, and thereafter the time for all regular meetings shall be
as determined by the Common Council. Should any regular meeting fall on a day
designated by law as a state or national holiday, such meeting of the Common
Council shall be held on the day next succeeding such holiday.
('76 Code, § 2-13) (Am. Ord. 2012-3, passed 3-5-12)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings, see IC 36-4-6-7 and 36-4-6-10
§ 31.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the Common Council may be convened at any time
other than the time fixed for regular meetings, on call of the Mayor, or on
call of two or more members of the Common Council.
('76 Code, § 2-14)
   (B)   Procedure for calling. The call for special meetings of the Common
Council shall be by that mode of communication most reasonable in the
circumstances, and may be made by telephone to the individual required to
receive the notice, by radio communication addressed to such member, or by
written notice which may be mailed by ordinary United States mail, or which may
be delivered to the person entitled to receive such notice in person by the
Mayor or by the members of the Common Council calling such meeting, or by the
Chief of Police of the city or his designate. If the member entitled to receive
such notice cannot be personally notified of the call of the special meeting,
then notice shall be sufficient if a written notice is left at his last and
usual place of residence, or if he has a known place of business, then at the
office at his place of business. Notice of any special meeting shall not be
necessary in any case where the member in fact appears at such special meeting
and does not raise objection thereto. Such notice, in whatever mode given,
shall apprise the member of the identity of the person calling such meeting,
the time and place at which it is to be held and, generally, the purpose
thereof. Such notice shall be given as far in advance of the time of such
meeting as the circumstances permit, to the end that the member by reasonable
diligence can attend the place of meeting at the time set.
('76 Code, § 2-15)
   (C)   Scope of business. The Common Council may transact any business,
whether stated in the call or not, at any special meeting and shall not be
limited by any restriction inserted in the call, if at least two-thirds of the
members are present at such meeting. If less than two-thirds of the members of
the Council are at the special meeting then the business to be transacted shall
be limited to that stated in the call therefor. In no case shall any business
not stated in the call therefor be transacted at any special meeting if two or
more Councilmen object to the transaction of such business.
('76 Code, § 2-16)
§ 31.04 QUORUM.
   A majority of all members-elect of the Common Council shall constitute a
quorum. Unless a vote of two-thirds of the members are required it shall
require a majority vote of all the members-elect to ordain an ordinance or
adopt a resolution. If a quorum of the members of the Council is not available
at any meeting then the members present shall not transact any business other
than to adjourn, either sine die or to a stated date.
('76 Code, § 2-17)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see IC 36-4-6-10
§ 31.05 POWERS.
   The Common Council shall have the powers conferred by the law of the state,
all powers necessarily inferable therefrom and the power to describe its own
rules.
('76 Code, § 2-18)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of Council, see IC 36-4-6-18
§ 31.06 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances shall be introduced by a member of the Common Council and
shall be consecutively numbered by the Clerk-Treasurer by affixing thereto the
four digits of the year in which introduced, followed by a dash and then by a
number so as to sequentially identify each ordinance serially commencing with
the number l in each calendar year. As provided in IC 36-4-6-13, no ordinance
shall be passed on the same day on which it was introduced unless all of the
following occur:
   (A)   Two-thirds of the elected members of the Common Council are present at
such meeting;
   (B)   The members present at the meeting unanimously consent that the
ordinance may be passed on the day of introduction upon two-thirds of the
members of the Common Council voting in favor of adoption of the ordinance; and
   (C)   Two-thirds of the elected members of the Common Council vote in favor
of adoption of the ordinance.
('76Code, § 2-19) (Am. Ord. 2008-05-12, passed 5-12-08)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of ordinances, see IC 36-4-6-15
§ 31.07 ORDER AND CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business to be observed at a meeting of the Common Council,
together with the rules for the conduct of its business, shall be that order or
mode of conduct adhered to by the presiding officer as deemed by him to most
expediently promote the transaction of the Council's business, except that if a
majority of the members present object to any order of business or mode of
procedure, then the Council may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the
members present, adopt a different order of business or rules for its
procedure.
('76 Code, § 2-20)
§ 31.08 COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL.
   (A) From and after the passage of this section, the Common Council shall be
made up of seven Council members with four members being selected from the
districts enumerated and established in Ordinance 1982-19 (codified at §
31.09) and three at large members, all of which is undertaken in accordance
with IC 36-4-6-4.
   (B) Each voter of the city may vote for three candidates for at- large
membership and one candidate from the district in which the voter resides. The
three at-large candidates receiving the most votes from the whole city and the
district candidates receiving the most votes from their respective districts
are elected to the legislative body.
   (C)   The seven member Common Council for the city shall remain in full
force and effect until changed by ordinance; this section is being passed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 1982-12, passed 8-23-82; Am. Ord. 2022-26, passed 10-11-22)
Statutory reference:
   Composition of Council in third-class cities having a population of less
than ten thousand, see IC 36-4-6-5
§ 31.09 COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS.
   By virtue of the authority vested in the Common Council by IC 36-4-6-5, the
city is hereby divided into four councilmanic districts, which districts shall
be and are described as follows:
   (A)   Greensburg First (North) Councilmanic District. That portion of the
city herein described as follows: Starting at a point at the west end of the
alley between West Walnut and West Hendricks Street to Anderson Street,
including those homes on the north side of the alley. Then south on Anderson
Street to Bennett Street, including all homes on the north side of Bennett
Street. Then north on Ireland Street to Michigan Avenue, then southeast on
Michigan to Central, then east on Central to an alley between Franklin Street
and Broadway. Including homes on the north side of Michigan and Central. Then
go north to Fifth Street including all the homes on the north side of Fifth
Street, then east to North East Street including all homes on the west side of
North East Street. Then north to Tenth Street, then west to Broadway, including
all homes on the south side of Tenth Street. Then north on Broadway to the city
limits including those homes on the west side of Broadway.
   (B)   Greensburg Second (East) Councilmanic District. Starting at a point at
the end of East Central, all homes on the north side of Central to the alley
between Franklin Street and Broadway, then north to Fifth Street, including all
the homes on the south side of Fifth Street. Then east to North East Street,
including all homes on the east side of North East Street. Then north to Tenth
Street, then west to Broadway, including all homes on the North side of Tenth
Street. Then north on Broadway to the city limits, including those homes on the
east side of Broadway.
   (C)   Greensburg Third (West) Councilmanic District. Starting at a point at
the west end of the alley between West Walnut and West Hendricks Street to
Anderson Street, including those homes on the south side of the alley. Then
south on Anderson Street to Bennett Street, including all homes on the south
side of Bennett Street. Then north on Ireland Street to Michigan Avenue, then
southeast on Michigan to Central then east on Central to an alley between
Franklin Street and Broadway. Including those homes on the south side of
Michigan and Central. Then go south to Main Street, then west on Main Street to
Broadway. Then south on Broadway to the city limits, including those homes on
the west side of Broadway.
   (D)   Greensburg Fourth (South) Councilmanic District. Starting at a point
at the end of East Central, then west on Central Avenue to the alley between
Franklin and Broadway. Including all homes on the south side of Central. Then
go south to Main Street, then west on Main Street to Broadway. Then south on
Broadway to the city limits, including those homes on the east side of
Broadway.
(Ord. 1982-19, passed 12-6-82)
CHAPTER 32: EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY
Section
   
32.01    Executive and administrative authority
§ 32.01 EXECUTIVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The executive and administrative authority of the city shall be vested in
the Mayor, in such departments as may be established pursuant to IC 36-4-9-4,
and in such other officers as may be appointed pursuant to IC 36-4-5-4.
Statutory reference:
   Board of Public Works and Safety, see IC 36-4-9-5
   City executive, see IC 36-4-5-l et seq.
   Exercise of executive powers, see IC 36-4-4-3
   Mayor, see IC 36-4-5-2
   Powers and duties of executive, see IC 36-4-5-3
CHAPTER 33: BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Civil Defense
   
33.01   Department created
Greensburg Aviation Commission
   
33.10   Commission created
   
33.11   Appointment
   
33.12   Budget request
   
33.13   Election of officers
   
33.14   Greensburg Aviation Commission fund
   
33.15   Powers
   
33.16   Acceptance of gifts
   
33.17   Acceptance of airport trust lease
Economic Development
   
33.25   Department created; commission
   
33.26   Membership, powers, and duties
Parks and Recreation
   
33.35   Created; composition
   
33.36   Board of Parks and Recreation
   
33.37   Powers
   
33.38   Advisory council; special committee
   
33.39   Annual budget; acceptance of gifts
   
33.40   Joint Park and Recreation Board
   
33.41   County nonreverting capital fund
   
33.42   County nonreverting operating fund
Planning
   
33.50   Area department created
   
33.51   City Plan Commission created
   
33.52   Composition
   
33.53   Qualifications; terms; compensation
   
33.54   Meetings; quorum
   
33.55   Officers
   
33.56   Secretary; employees
   
33.57   Powers and duties
   
33.58   Preparation of Master Plan
   
33.59   Adoption of state law
Department of Water Works
   
33.60   Establishment
   
33.61   Board of Directors; bond
   
33.62   Compensation; terms
   
33.63   Removal by Mayor
   
33.64   Powers and duties
Other Boards and Departments
   
33.65   Animal Control Board
   
33.66   Board of Public Works and Safety
   
33.67   Board of Zoning Appeals
Statutory reference:
   Department of Law, see IC 36-4-9-11 and 36-4-12
CIVIL DEFENSE.
§ 33.01 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   For the purpose of this section, "CIVIL DEFENSE" shall mean the preparation
for and the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for
which military forces or other federal agencies are responsible, to prevent,
minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from disasters caused by enemy
attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or by fire, flood, or other causes.
These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting service, police
services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, air raid warning
service, communications, radiological, chemical, and other special weapons of
defense, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare service
(civilian war aid), emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary
restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian
protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the
preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
('76 Code, § 8-1) (Ord. 1960-9, passed 7-5-60)
GREENSBURG AVIATION COMMISSION
§ 33.10 COMMISSION CREATED.
   The Council determines that a year-round airfield in the community is
necessary for the health, safety, and well-being of the residents of the
community, and therefore that a Greensburg Aviation Commission and Department,
in terms of IC8-22-2 is created.
(Ord. 1980-11, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 2007-4, passed 4-2-07)
§ 33.11 APPOINTMENT.
   The Greensburg Aviation Commission shall be composed of five members, all of
whom shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city, and three of whom shall be
appointed by the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 1980-11, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 2007-4, passed 4-2-07)
§ 33.12 BUDGET REQUEST.
   The Greensburg Aviation Commission shall determine its total budget request
and submit the same to the City Council, which shall determine the
appropriation to be made.
(Ord. 1980-11, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 2007-4, passed 4-2-07)
§ 33.13 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The Greensburg Aviation Commission shall elect a president and secretary
from its membership who shall serve in such offices for a term of one year.
Such officers shall be elected annually at a Greensburg Aviation Commission
meeting to be held in December of each year and such officers shall take office
on the first Monday of the following year.
(Ord. 1980-11, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 2007-4, passed 4-2-07)
§ 33.14 GREENSBURG AVIATION COMMISSION FUND.
   The moneys appropriated by the City Council shall be deposited in a
Greensburg Aviation Commission fund in the custody of the Clerk Treasurer.
Moneys may be withdrawn only on vouchers signed by the president and secretary.
(Ord. 1980-11, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 2007-4, passed 4-2-07)
§ 33.15 POWERS.
   The Greensburg Aviation Commission shall be empowered with all the powers
granted to such boards by the statutes including, but not limited to those
powers specified in IC8-22-2.
(Ord. 1980-11, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 2007-4, passed 4-2-07)
§ 33.16 ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS.
   The Greensburg Aviation Commission shall have the authority to accept gifts
of money or property, and may accept such gifts subject to conditions imposed
by the donor, if the Board determines that acceptance of such gift is in the
public interest.
(Ord. 1980-11, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 2007-4, passed 4-2-07)
§ 33.17 ACCEPTANCE OF AIRPORT TRUST LEASE.
   The Greensburg Aviation Commission is authorized to accept assignment of a
lease from the Greensburg Airport Trust, which lease is incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. 1980-11, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 2007-4, passed 4-2-07)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 33.25 DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMMISSION.
   There is created a Department of Economic Development which shall be under
the control of a board of five members to be known as the Economic Development
Commission.
('76 Code, § 19-80) (Ord. 1973-13, passed 8-28-73)
Statutory reference:
   Department and Commission, see IC 36-7-12-4
   Promotion of economic development, see IC 36-7-12-l et seq.
§ 33.26 MEMBERSHIP, POWERS, AND DUTIES.
   Members of the City Economic Development Commission shall be appointed as
provided by law, IC 36-7-12-5, and shall have the powers and duties as
prescribed therein.
('76 Code, § 19-81) (Ord. 1973-13, passed 8-28-73)
PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 33.35 CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   Under the provisions of IC 36-10-3-3, there is established a Department of
Parks and Recreation composed of the Board of Parks and Recreation, a
superintendent, and such other personnel as the Board shall determine.
('76 Code, § 17-15) (Ord. 1966-9, passed 8-1-66)
Statutory reference:
   Park and Recreation Law, see IC 36-10-3-l et seq.
§ 33.36 BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Composition and selection. The Board of Parks and Recreation shall be
composed of four members, and a member of the Board of School Trustees and the
Library Board ex officio. The Mayor shall select the regular members on the
basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation, but not more
than two members shall be of the same political party. The ex officio members
shall be selected by their respective boards.
('76 Code, § 17-16)
   (B)   Terms. Each appointment to the Board of Parks and Recreation shall be
for a four year term. All terms shall expire on the first Monday of January,
but an appointee shall continue in office until his successor is appointed.
('76 Code, § 17-17)
   (C)   Officers. At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board of
Parks and Recreation shall elect a president and a vice-president. The vice-
president shall have authority to act as the president of the Board during the
absence or disability of the president.
('76 Code, § 17-18)
(Ord. 1966-9, passed 8-1-66)
Statutory reference:
   Local Boards of Parks and Recreation, see IC 36-10-3-4
§ 33.37 POWERS.
   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall have the general power to perform
all acts necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities to conduct such
programs as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions,
including powers and duties listed in IC 36-10-3-10 and 36-10-3-11, as amended.
(Ord. 1966-9, passed 8-1-66)
§ 33.38 ADVISORY COUNCIL, SPECIAL COMMITTEE.
   The Board of Parks and Recreation may create an advisory council and special
committees composed of citizens interested in the problems of parks and
recreation, in accordance with law.
('76 Code, § 17-20) (Ord. 1966-9, passed 8-1-66)
Statutory reference:
   Advisory councils, see IC 36-10-3-17
§ 33.39 ANNUAL BUDGET; ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS.
   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall prepare and submit an annual budget
in the same manner as other departments of the city government. The Board may
accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for park and recreation purposes.
('76 Code, § 17-21) (Ord. 1966-9, passed 8-1-66)
§ 33.40 JOINT PARK AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   The agreement of the County Park Board and the City Park Board,
executed by the president and secretary of the respective park boards as of the
date of April 3, 1967, providing for the creation of a joint park board for the
express purpose of the creation of park and recreational facilities in the
county as authorized by the statutes is ratified and approved, pursuant to the
following conditions and agreements:
      (1)   That such Joint Park and Recreation Board shall be composed of all
the membership of the park and recreation boards of the respective districts;
      (2)   That the Joint Park and Recreation Board may appoint an executive
committee composed of equal numbers from the membership of each participating
park and recreation board, which executive committee shall be empowered to
exercise all the authority of the Joint Park and Recreation Board except that
any executive committee member may require an issue to be submitted to the
Joint Park and Recreation Board for final action thereon;
      (3)   That the Joint Park and Recreation Board shall determine its total
budget and submit the same to both the County Council and the Common Council,
which Councils shall jointly determine the appropriation to be made. The
assessment to procure the funds is required to be on a whole county basis;
      (4)   That the Joint Park and Recreation Board shall elect a president
and secretary from its membership who shall serve in such offices for a term of
one year. Such officers shall be elected annually at a Joint Park and
Recreation Board meeting to be held in December of each year and such officers
shall take office on the first Monday of the following year. It is further
recommended that the boards agree on a system of rotation of its members and
its elective officer of the executive committee;
      (5)   The moneys appropriated shall be deposited in a Joint Park and
Recreational Board fund in the custody of the fiscal officers of the Joint Park
and Recreation Board. Moneys may be withdrawn from the respective fund only on
vouchers signed by the president and secretary of the Joint Park and Recreation
Board;
      (6)   That the Joint Park and Recreation Board shall be empowered with
all the powers granted to such boards by statutes including but not limited to
those powers specified in IC 36-10-3-4, 36-10-3-10, and 36-10-3-11, as amended
from time to time, relative to such Joint Park and Recreation Board.
('76 Code, § 17-3) (Ord. 1967-5, passed 4-3-67)
   (B)   The Decatur County Parks and Recreation Board as it is presently
constituted is hereby reaffirmed and reestablished with its current members and
previously established terms, pursuant to IC 36-10-3-l through 36-10-3-39.
(Ord. 1983-4, passed 5-1-83)
Statutory reference:
   Joint boards, see IC 36-10-3-29 through 36-10-3-32
   Power to establish and maintain public parks and recreation areas, see IC
36-10-2-2
§ 33.41 COUNTY NONREVERTING CAPITAL FUND.
   (A)   Under the provisions of IC 36-10-3-20, as amended, there is created a
special nonreverting capital fund for the purposes of acquiring land or making
specific capital improvements by the County Parks and Recreation Board.
   (B)   The Common Council may include from year to year in the budget
established for the County Parks and Recreation Board an item and an
appropriation to such nonreverting capital fund.
   (C)   Moneys placed in the special nonreverting capital fund shall not be
withdrawn except for the purposes for which the fund is created.
('76 Code, § 17-1) (Ord. 1972-2, passed 3-6-72)
§ 33.42 COUNTY NONREVERTING OPERATING FUND.
   (A)   Under the provisions of IC 36-10-3-22 as amended there is created a
special nonreverting operating fund for the purpose of funding the various
programs and activities of the county parks and recreation department, as set
out in Chapter 311, Acts of 1955, of the General Assembly of Indiana as amended
by Acts of 1971, Public Law 305.
   (B)   The expenditures from such special nonreverting operating fund can be
made without appropriation, but the moneys from such fund shall be disbursed
only on approved claims allowed and signed by the president and secretary of
the County Parks and Recreation Board.
   (C)   Moneys placed in the special nonreverting operating fund shall not be
withdrawn except for the purposes for which the fund is created.
('76 Code, § 17-2) (Ord. 1972-3, passed 3-6-72)
Statutory reference:
   Successor provisions to Chapter 311 of Acts of 1955, see IC 36-10-3-l et
seq.
PLANNING
§ 33.50 AREA DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   (A)   The provisions of IC 36-7-4-901 through 36-7-4-1003, as amended, are
adopted.
   (B)   An Area Planning Department in the government of Decatur County,
Indiana, in cooperation with the city shall be established, composed of and
providing for an Area Plan Commission, a Board of Zoning Appeals, and executive
director.
   (C)   The city shall actively participate in the provisions of the ordinance
passed by the county and, with such county government, cooperately establish
single and unified planning and zoning agencies to deal with the problems of
such governments on a countywide basis, all in accordance with such act.
   (D)   The time fixed for the establishment of such Department and providing
for the appointment of its representatives to the Area Plan Commission shall be
at the same time fixed by the County Commissioners and as in its ordinance
provided.
   (E)   The number of representatives of the city on the Area Plan Commission
and the manner of their selection shall be as provided in the statutes cited in
division (A) of this section.
('76 Code, § 19-1) (Ord. 1971-5, passed 8-2-71)
§ 33.51 CITY PLAN COMMISSION CREATED.
   There is created and established a City Plan Commission for the city, as
provided for by IC 36-7-4-201 through 36-7-4-l105, as amended.
('76 Code, § 19-13) (Ord. 1952-3, passed 6-10-52)
Statutory reference:
   Area Planning, see IC 36-7-4-102
   Members of Commission, see IC 36-7-4-207
   Powers and duties, see IC 36-7-4-401
§ 33.52 COMPOSITION.
   The Plan Commission created by this subchapter shall consist of seven
members who shall be selected as follows:
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint four citizen members, not more than two of
whom shall be members of the same political party.
   (B)   Four official members shall be the following persons: One member
selected by the Common Council from its membership; one member selected by the
Board of Park and Recreation from its membership; any one member or any
designated representative selected by the Board of Public Works and Safety; and
the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects. The City Council
shall select three official members and of those three members selected they
must be elected or appointed city officials or employees.
(‘76 Code, § 19-14) (Ord. 1952-3, passed 6-10-52; Am. Ord. 1973-6, passed 6-5-
73; Am. Ord. 1976-4, passed 4-5-76; Am. Ord. 2020-20, passed 9-8-20)
§ 33.53 QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Qualifications. The citizen members of the Plan Commission shall hold
no other office in the city government, with the exception of the member
appointed from the County Park and Recreation Department, and shall be
qualified by knowledge and experience in matters pertaining to the development
of the city, and shall be residents of the city.
('76 Code, § 19-15) (Am. Ord. 1973-6, passed 6-5-73)
   (B)   Terms. The citizen members of the Commission shall be appointed for a
term of four years.
('76 Code, § 19-16)
   (C)   Compensation. The members of the Commission shall receive no salary
for service on the Plan Commission.
('76 Code, § 19-19) (Ord. 1952-3, passed 6-10-52)
§ 33.54 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   Meetings. The Commission shall fix the time for holding regular
meetings, as necessary, but it shall meet at least once in the first quarter of
the calendar year to elect officers. Special meetings may be called by the
President, or by two members of the Plan Commission, or by the Planning
Director. At least two days in advance of a special meeting, a written notice,
fixing the time and place of the meeting, provided, that such written notice of
a special meeting shall not be required if the time of the special meeting has
been fixed in a regular meeting or if all members are present at the special
meeting. (‘76 Code, § 19-17)
   (B)   Quorum. A majority of the members of the Commission created by this
subchapter shall constitute a quorum. No action of the Commission shall be
official unless authorized by a majority of the Commission at a regular or
properly called special meeting. (‘76 Code, § 19-18)
(Ord. 1952-3, passed 6-10-52; Am. Ord. 2015-13, passed 12-7-15; Am. Ord. 2020-
20, passed 9-8-20)
§ 33.55 OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Commission shall elect from
its members a president and a vice-president.
('76 Code, § 19-20) (Ord. 1952-3, passed 6-10-52)
§ 33.56 SECRETARY; EMPLOYEES.
   The Commission may appoint and prescribe the duties and fix the compensation
of a secretary and such employees as are necessary for the discharge of the
duties and responsibilities of the Commission, provided, that such compensation
shall be in conformity to and in compliance with salaries and compensation
theretofore fixed by the Common Council of the city. The Commission may make
contracts for special and temporary services and any professional counsel.
('76 Code, § 19-21) (Ord. 1952-3, passed 6-10-52)
§ 33.57 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   To carry out and effectuate the purposes of this subchapter, the
Commission shall have the power and duty to:
      (1)   Exercise general supervision of and make regulations for the
administration of the affairs of the Commission.
      (2)   Prescribe uniform rules for conducting investigations and hearings.
      (3)   Make recommendations and an annual report to the Mayor and Common
Council.
   (B)   The Commission shall also have all the powers and duties as set out in
IC 36-7-4-401, as amended.
('76 Code, § 19-22) (Ord. 1952-3, passed 6-10-52)
Cross-reference:
   Continuing authority of City Plan Commission, see
§ 154.14
§ 33.58 PREPARATION OF MASTER PLAN.
   The Commission shall prepare and present to the Common Council a Master Plan
for the city, consisting of, but not limited to, the laying out and development
of public ways; the zoning of residential, industrial, and business districts;
the location, height, and construction of all types of buildings; and
containing any other matter consistent with the promulgation of the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
('76 Code, § 19-23) (Ord. 1952-3, passed 6-10-52)
§ 33.59 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   IC 36-7-4-201 through 36-7-4-1105, as amended, insofar as the same is
applicable, is incorporated in and made a part of this subchapter.
('76 Code, § 19-24) (Ord. 1952-3, passed 6-10-52)
DEPARTMENT OF WATER WORKS
§ 33.60 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established pursuant to IC 8-1.5-4-2, a Department of Water
Works to be controlled by a Board of Directors.
(Ord. 1982-18, passed 12-6-82)
§ 33.61 BOARD OF DIRECTORS; BOND.
   The Board of Directors shall consist of five directors who shall be
appointed by the Mayor. The five directors constituting the Board shall consist
of three appointed directors, not more than two of whom may be of the same
political party. The other two members shall be the Mayor and the City
Attorney, constituting a total of five directors on the Board.
(Ord. 1982-18, passed 12-6-82; Am. Ord. 2008-05-11, passed 6-2-08)
§ 33.62 COMPENSATION; TERMS.
   (A)   Each director may be paid compensation to be fixed by ordinance of the
Common Council of the city.
   (B)   The terms of the directors shall be four years.
(Ord. 1982-18, passed 12-6-82; Am. Ord. 2008-05-11, passed 6-2-08)
§ 33.63 REMOVAL BY MAYOR.
   The Mayor may remove a director at any time when in his judgment it is for
the best interest of the Department, pursuant to IC 8-1.5-4-2(d).
(Ord. 1982-18, passed 12-6-82)
§ 33.64 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Department of Water Works shall have all powers and duties
provided by Indiana Law, including those powers and duties specifically
enumerated in IC 8-1.5-4-4.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall affect any other action by prior Boards
of the Municipal Water Works and all provisions, actions, and bonds shall be in
full force and effect.
(Ord. 1982-18, passed 12-6-82)
OTHER BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
§ 33.65 ANIMAL CONTROL BOARD.
   For provisions regarding the Animal Control Board, see §§
90.20 through
90.25.
§ 33.66 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   For provisions regarding the Board of Public Works and Safety, see § 50.78.
§ 33.67 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   For provisions regarding the Board of Zoning Appeals, see §
160.01.
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Established
   
34.02   Chief of the Police Department
   
34.03   Appointment of policemen
   
34.04   Rates of police reports
   
34.05   Pension fund
   
34.06   Retention of service weapon of retired police officers
   
34.07   New Police Officer Training Reimbursement Agreement
   
34.08   Greensburg Police Autism Program Fund
   
34.09   Greensburg Police Law Enforcement Fund
Police Reserves
   
34.15   Scope
   
34.16   Appointment of Police Reserve Officers
   
34.17   Compensation
   
34.18   Ineligible for pension
   
34.19   Training
Cross-reference:
   Enforcement of traffic code, see §
70.01
Statutory reference:
   General powers regarding law enforcement, see IC 36-8-2-2
   Salaries to be set by Council, see IC 36-8-3-3
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a Police Department in and for the city which shall be
under the control and management of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
('76 Code, § 20-13)
§ 34.02 CHIEF OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the Chief of the Police Department and
designate such other assistant chiefs and officers as necessary.
('76 Code, § 20-14)
   (B)   The Chief of the Police Department shall have charge of all the Police
Department apparatus belonging to the city, and shall be responsible for the
safekeeping and care of the same. He shall have command and control of the
entire Department and the general supervision of the members of the Department
at all times. The Chief shall see that all ordinances of the city and state
regulations for the prevention of crime are enforced and shall comply with
directives of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
('76 Code, § 20-15)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of police chief, see IC 36-4-9-8
§ 34.03 APPOINTMENT OF POLICEMEN.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall appoint as many regular policemen
to the Police Department as may be necessary for the proper and efficient
management of the Department.
('76 Code, § 20-16)
§ 34.04 RATES OF POLICE REPORTS.
   There shall be established for the use of and the service rendered by the
city the following rates and charges for copies of police reports:
   (A)   A sheet shall consist of the front and back of one page of paper.
   (B)   The charge will be the following for police reports:
 
(1) Paper records (8-1/2 x 11, black and white)  $5.00
(2) Photo reprints (digital, plain paper, color) $5.00
(3) Photos on CD (unlimited, up to CD capacity)  $5.00
(4) Audio recording (provided on CD)             $10.00/CD
(5) Video recording (provided on DVD)            $150.00/DVD
 
   (C)   Fee to be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer Office for deposit in a L.E.C.E.
Fund.
   (D)   Fee to be paid when copy is made or as invoiced.
   (E)   Copies shall be made by authorized personnel only.
(Ord. 1981-13, passed 11-2-81; Am. Ord. 1996-3, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2016-
10, passed 7-5-16; Am. Ord. 2016-18, passed 11-7-16)
§ 34.05 PENSION FUND.
   There is established a police pension fund pursuant to IC 36-8-6-1 et seq.,
as amended, and a board of trustees, all pursuant to such statutes.
('76 Code, § 20-1) (Ord. 1946-l, passed 1-7-46)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Trustees, see IC 36-8-6-2
§ 34.06 RETENTION OF SERVICE WEAPON OF RETIRED POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Any policeman who retires after having served at least 20 years on the
Police Department, is authorized to retain his standard four-inch service
weapon and to receive a "retired" badge in recognition of his service to the
Department and to the public, which shall be accompanied by an identification
card that gives his name and rank, signifies that he is retired, and notes his
authority to retain his service weapon.
   (B)   A retired police officer who retains his service weapon shall not be
entitled to dispose of said weapon for at least five years after his
retirement, except in the event of death.
   (C)   This section shall apply to all police officers who have retired on or
after January 1, 1988, after 20 years of service.
(Ord. 1988-22, passed 12-5-88)
§ 34.07 NEW POLICE OFFICER TRAINING REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT.
   As a condition of employment, a newly hired police officer for the city
shall sign and enter into a New Officer Training Reimbursement Agreement. At
the minimum, this agreement shall include the following provisions.
   (A)   The officer agrees to participate in training that may consist of
either or both of the following:
      (1)   Twelve weeks at the Indiana Law Enforcement Academy, located in
Plainfield, Indiana; and
      (2)   In-house, on-the-job training.
   (B)   The officer further agrees to successfully complete such training, to
obtain the necessary and appropriate certification, and to serve as a police
officer of the Police Department, in any duty assignment prescribed, for a
minimum of three years following administration of the oath of office. The
officer further agrees to devote full-time to training and subsequent service,
and to perform all assignments in a satisfactory manner.
   (C)   The city agrees to make available to the officer the law enforcement
training set forth above, and, if required, to be responsible for and pay all
related expenses in connection therewith, including food, lodging, equipment
and salaries on the premises while the officer is training. The city further
agrees to provide in-house training for the officer during those periods of
time he or she is employed with the city, but not attending the training
academy.
   (D)   The officer and the city agree that the value of the training
equipment equals $5,000. In the event the officer terminates employment with
the city during training or within the first 36 months subsequent to taking the
oath of office, the officer agrees to pay to the city, not as a penalty but as
agreed upon liquidated damages, the sum of $150 per month for the number of
months less than 36 that he or she was employed by the Police Department. These
liquidated damages shall serve as partial reimbursement for training and
equipment costs, and shall be paid within 30 days after the date of termination
of city employment. If these damages are not paid within 30 days, then interest
shall accrue on the amount due at 2% per month. If it initiates court
proceedings for collection of these damages, the city shall be entitled to
reimbursement of reasonable attorney fees, court costs, and other expenses
incurred in collecting damages.
   (E)   The officer shall not be responsible for the reimbursement of any cost
if he or she fails to satisfactorily complete the police academy. Nor shall he
or she be responsible if employment is terminated during the first 36 months
due to a disabling illness or injury (verified by a competent physician), or
due to dismissal by the city. However, this exception shall not apply if there
is substantial evidence that the officer has been dismissed as a result of
misrepresenting his or her basic qualifications for employment, or has caused
his or her dismissal, failure, illness or injury in an attempt to avoid payment
of training and equipment costs.
(Ord. 2001-16, passed 9-4-01)
§ 34.08 GREENSBURG POLICE AUTISM PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   There is established in the city a “Greensburg Police Autism Program
Fund” (the “Fund”) into which shall be deposited all donations from public and
corporate citizens. The Fund shall be maintained separate and apart from all
other funds of the city in accounts approved by the Clerk-Treasurer. The Fund
shall not include any funds derived from tax proceeds.
   (B)   Monies in the Fund shall be used for the Greensburg Autism Program.
Funding will assist in safety equipment and products.
   (C)   The Fund shall exist until terminated by ordinance of the Council.
Proceeds remaining in the Fund upon termination shall be deposited into the
General Fund.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 2-4-19)
§ 34.09 GREENSBURG POLICE LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a local equitable sharing fund titled
“Greensburg Police Law Enforcement Fund” (the “Fund”). The Fund shall consist
of deposits in the form of voluntary surrender fees, reimbursement for
restitution, forfeitures, and other law enforcement fees or forfeitures
recovered by the office of the County Prosecutor which are not required to be
deposited in the city General Fund.
   (B)   The Fund shall be appropriated only for funding activities to support
and supplement the pursuit, apprehension, and prosecution of individuals
involved in racketeering or illegal drug activity, including but not limited to
training, equipment, and education of law enforcement personnel; asset
forfeiture litigation support and costs; and salaries and overtime of personnel
engaged in the pursuit, apprehension, and prosecution of individuals involved
in racketeering or illegal drug activity.
   (C)   Monies from the Fund shall be subject to appropriation in accordance
with IC 36-3-6-6.
   (D)   The Fund shall exist until terminated by ordinance of the Council.
Proceeds remaining in the Fund upon termination shall be deposited in the
General Fund.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 5-6-19)
POLICE RESERVES
§ 34.15 SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall relate to police reserves regarding the appointment,
powers and qualifications of police reserves for the Police Department.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 5-7-90)
§ 34.16 APPOINTMENT OF POLICE RESERVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The police reserves shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Board
of Public Works and Safety for the city.
   (B)   The reserve officers division shall consist of at least six persons.
   (C)   These persons shall be known as Greensburg Police Reserve Officers.
   (D)   Police reserves may not be members of the regular police department,
but shall have all police powers as regular police officers, except that this
authority may be limited by rules of the police department.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 5-7-90)
§ 34.17 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Each reserve officer shall receive a uniform allowance as provided by
the budgetary authority for the city.
   (B)   All reserve officers shall be entitled to compensation for any time
lost firm other employment because of court appearances, which compensation
shall be designated in the Department's Rules and Regulations and approved by
the City Council through its budgetary authority.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 5-7-90)
§ 34.18 INELIGIBLE FOR PENSION.
   Police reserve officers appointed under the authority of this subchapter are
not eligible to participate in any pension program provided for regular members
of the Police Department.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 5-7-90)
§ 34.19 TRAINING.
   Any police reserve appointed under this subchapter, must complete the
training and probationary period specified in the rules of the Department
before that person may be appointed as a reserve officer. The prospective
appointee may be appointed as a Probationary Reserve Officer during the
probationary period.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 5-7-90)
CHAPTER 35: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
35.01   Established
   
35.02   Chief of the Fire Department
   
35.03   Appointment of firemen
   
35.04   Pension fund
   35.05   Leona Hahn Fund
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 92
Statutory reference:
   Board of Public Works and Safety charged with management of city fire
forces, see IC 36-8-3-2
   General powers regarding fire prevention, see IC 36-8-2-3
   Salaries to be set by Council, see IC 36-8-3-3
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a Fire Department in and for the city which shall be
under the control and management of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
('76 Code, § 10-15)
§ 35.02 CHIEF OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the Chief of the Fire Department.
('76 Code, § 10-16)
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have charge of all the fire-
fighting apparatus belonging to the city, and shall be responsible for the
safekeeping and care of the same. He shall have command and control of the
entire Department when in active service at fires, and the general supervision
of the members of the Department at all times. The Chief shall see that all
ordinances of the city and state regulations for the prevention of fires and
protection of properties against fires are enforced and shall comply with
directives of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
('76 Code, § 10-17)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of Chief by Mayor, see IC 36-4-9-8
§ 35.03 APPOINTMENT OF FIREMEN.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall appoint as many regular firemen
to the Fire Department as may be necessary for the proper and efficient
management of the Department.
('76 Code, § 10-18)
§ 35.04 PENSION FUND.
   There is established a firemen's pension fund pursuant to IC 36-8-7-1 et
seq., as amended, and a board of trustees, all pursuant to such statutes.
('76 Code, § 10-25) (Ord. 1946-1, passed 1-7-46)
§ 35.05 LEONA HAHN FUND.
   (A)   There is established in the city the “Leona Hahn Fund” (the “Fund”)
into which shall be deposited all donations from public or corporate citizens.
The Fund shall be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the
city in accounts approved by the Clerk- Treasurer. The Fund shall not include
any funds derived from tax proceeds.
   (B)   Monies in the Fund shall be used for the Greensburg Fire Department.
Funding will assist in various purchases as determined by persons donating the
money.
   (C)   The Fund shall exist until terminated by ordinance of the Council.
Proceeds remaining in the Fund upon termination shall be deposited into the
General Fund.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 3-4-19)
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
Personnel Administration
   
36.001   Applicability
   
36.002   Use and revision of personnel policies handbook
   
36.003   Exceptions and special conditions
   
36.004   “City of Greensburg” defined
   
36.005   Board of Works and Safety
   
36.006   Equal employment opportunity
   
36.007   Productive work environment
   
36.008   Reporting misconduct
   
36.009   Non-retaliation policy
   
36.010   False allegations policy
   
36.011   Management rights
   
36.012   Authorized alien status and citizenship
   
36.013   E-verify
   
36.014   Eligibility for local public benefits
Employment Policies
   
36.025   Applicability
   
36.026   Recruitment
   
36.027   Applications
   
36.028   Applicant testing
   
36.029   Pre-employment interviews
   
36.030   Conditional offer of employment
   
36.031   Offer of employment
   
36.032   Medical examinations
   
36.033   Employment categories
   
36.034   Employment reference and criminal background checks
   
36.035   Applicant/personnel files
   
36.036   Access to personnel files
   
36.037   Personal information changes
   
36.038   Orientation/exit interviews
   
36.039   Probationary period
   
36.040   Supervision and performance evaluation
   
36.041   Outside employment/conflict of interest
   
36.042   Requests for information
   
36.043   Layoff and recall
   
36.044   Full-time to elected official employment
   
36.045   Nepotism
   
36.046   Elective officer and city employment restricted
   
36.047   Contracting with the city
Salary Administration
   
36.055   Applicability
   
36.056   Normal work week
   
36.057   Work hours
   
36.058   Job classification
   
36.059   Job classification/pay system maintenance
   
36.060   Compensation
   
36.061   Wage policy
   
36.062   Timekeeping
   
36.063   Rounding
   
36.064   Multiple positions
   
36.065   Timesheets
   
36.066   Paydays
   
36.067   Pay corrections
   
36.068   Pay deductions/garnishments
   
36.069   Employment termination
   
36.070   Return of property
   
36.071   Overtime and compensatory time
   
36.072   Work time restricted
   
36.073   Longevity pay
   
36.074   Emergency closings
Employee Benefits
   
36.085   Applicability
   
36.086   Vacation benefits
   
36.087   Holidays
   
36.088   Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
   
36.089   Paid absent allowance
   
36.090   Sick leave
   
36.091   Sick leave bank
   
36.092   Military leave
   
36.093   Limited duty
   
36.094   Bereavement leave
   
36.095   Civic duty
   
36.096   Witness duty
   
36.097   Leave of absence without pay
   
36.098   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
   
36.099   Worker’s compensation
   
36.100   Health insurance
   
36.101   HIPAA
   
36.102   Benefits continuation (COBRA)
   
36.103   Group health insurance for retired employees
   
36.104   Group term life insurance
   
36.105   Retirement fund
   
36.106   Social Security/Indiana unemployment insurance
Working Conditions
   
36.115   Applicability
   
36.116   Safety
   
36.117   Lactation support
   
36.118   Use of telephones and city mail
   
36.119   Use of personal cellular phones and pagers
   
36.120   Use of information technologies
   
36.121   Use of internet and electronic mail (e-mail)
   
36.122   Social media policy
   
36.123   Use of equipment and vehicles
   
36.124   Take home vehicles
   
36.125   Personal use of organization facilities
   
36.126   Drug-free workplace
   
36.127   Substance abuse policy
   
36.128   Appearance of work areas
   
36.129   Business travel
   
36.130   Political activity
   
36.131   Bloodborne pathogens
   
36.132   Smoking
   
36.133   Fuel card policy
   
36.134   Indiana internal control standards policy
   
36.135   Whistleblower policy
Personal Conduct
   
36.145   Applicability
   
36.146   Employee conduct and work rules
   
36.147   Attendance and punctuality
   
36.148   Personal appearance
   
36.149   Commission of a felony or unlawful act
   
36.150   Gifts or gratuities
   
36.151   Ghost employment
   
36.152   Business ethics/conflict of interest
   
36.153   Sexual harassment/hostile work environment
   
36.154   Solicitation/distribution
   
36.155   Security of premises
   
36.156   Workplace violence
   
36.157   Confidentiality
   
36.158   Employee conduct
Problem Resolution
   
36.170   Applicability
   
36.171   Purpose
   
36.172   Step 1: department head (oral complaint)
   
36.173   Step 2: department head (written complaint)
   
36.174   Step 3: Mayor
Legal Requirements
   
36.185   Severability
   
36.186   Indemnification
   
36.187   Enabling ordinances
   
36.188   Amendments
   
Appendix: Employee acknowledgment form
                    
Statutory reference:
   City employees, see IC 36-4-11-1 et seq.
Cross-reference:
   City credit cards, see §
30.09
PERSONNEL POLICIES
§ 36.001 APPLICABILITY.
   The policies contained in this chapter and throughout the Greensburg
personnel policies handbook apply to all city employees, except when in direct
conflict with special employment conditions as set forth by various statutes
governing employment relationships.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.002 USE AND REVISION OF PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK.
   (A)   This handbook is designed to provide you with information about
working conditions, employee benefits, and some of the policies affecting your
employment. You should read, understand, and comply with all provisions of the
handbook. It describes many of your responsibilities as an employee and
outlines the programs developed by the city to benefit our employees. One of
our objectives is to provide a work environment that is conducive to both
personal and professional growth.
   (B)   Nothing in this handbook is intended to, in any sense, constitute a
contract of employment. The city is an “at-will” employer which refers to the
nature of the employment relationship which means that the employee may resign
at any time and the employer may discharge an employee at any time with or
without cause.
   (C)   No employee handbook can anticipate every circumstance or question
about policy. As the city continues to grow, the need may arise to change
policies described in the handbook. The city therefore reserves the right to
revise, supplement, or rescind any policies or portion of the handbook from
time to time as it deems appropriate, in its sole and absolute discretion.
Employees will, of course, be notified of such changes as they occur. These
policies and procedures apply to all city employees, except when in conflict
with special employment conditions imposed by appropriate authorities.
   (D)   While the city believes these policies are accurate, they are only
summaries, and any discrepancies between these summaries (such as insurance
policies) shall be governed by the actual terms of the underlying, more
detailed plan documents.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.003 EXCEPTIONS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   These policies apply to all city employees, except when in conflict with
special employment conditions set forth by various statutes governing
employment relationships such as, but not limited to elected officials.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.004 “CITY OF GREENSBURG” DEFINED.
   In this personnel policies handbook, the “CITY OF GREENSBURG” and/or “CITY”
shall be defined to mean the Greensburg City Mayor, City Council, the elected
officials of Greensburg, and department heads acting individually or in
conjunction with each other within the areas of responsibility assigned to said
individuals or as defined by applicable statute, constitutional provision,
ordinance, case law, or resolution.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.005 BOARD OF WORKS AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The City of Greensburg Board of Works and Safety facilitates the
implementation of the policies and procedures herein established. They shall
meet as deemed necessary to review the application of city personnel policies,
such as monitoring personnel policies and procedures and making revisions,
additions and deletions as deemed necessary.
   (B)   Department heads have responsibility for the day-to-day supervision
and operation of their respective departments as prescribed by statue.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.006 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   The City of Greensburg prohibits, forbids, and does not tolerate
discrimination on the basis of race, color, gender, national origin, religion,
age, veteran status, sexual orientation or gender identity, disability, or any
other protected classification in employment or the provision of services.
   (B)   All position notices, postings, advertisements, and recruiting
literature shall contain the phrase “An Equal Opportunity Employer.”
   (C)   This policy applies to all terms, conditions, and privileges of
employment, including hiring, probation, training, promotion, transfer,
compensation, benefits, assistance, layoff, recall, employee facilities,
discharge, and retirement.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.007 PRODUCTIVE WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   It is a policy of the City of Greensburg to maintain a productive work
environment. Verbal or physical conduct by any supervisor or employee which
harasses, disrupts, or interferes with another’s work performance or which
creates an intimidating, offensive, or hostile environment will not be
tolerated.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.008 REPORTING MISCONDUCT.
   Employees are not required to directly confront any persons who are the
source of a workplace problem or closely associated with the person who is the
source of the problem. Instead, employees may utilize any of the other various
avenues for making an internal complaint. Employees are required to make a
reasonable effort to bring forward any allegations of workplace misconduct so
the city may stop such wrongdoing and prevent future occurrences. Employees are
directed to report known or suspected misconduct to their department head. In
the event that the misconduct involves the department head, the employee is
directed to report such misconduct to the Mayor.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.009 NON-RETALIATION POLICY.
   The city does not tolerate retaliation against those making good faith
allegations of misconduct or those participating in a corresponding
investigation.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.010 FALSE ALLEGATIONS POLICY.
   The city recognizes that making false, bad faith accusations can have
serious consequences for those who are wrongly accused. The city prohibits
knowingly making false and/or malicious misconduct allegations, as well as
deliberately providing false information during an investigation.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.011 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.
   The city retains the responsibility and authority to manage and direct on
behalf of the public, the operations and activities of the city to the full
extent authorized by law. Such responsibility and authority shall include but
not be limited to:
   (A)   The right to direct the work of its employees.
   (B)   The right to establish policy.
   (C)   The right to maintain the efficiency of public operations.
   (D)   The right to design and implement safety programs for employees.
   (E)   The right to design and implement job training for employees.
   (F)   The right to determine what services shall be rendered to the public.
   (G)   The right to determine job content and job descriptions.
   (H)   The right to determine, effectuate and implement the objectives and
goals of the city.
   (I)   The right to establish, allocate, schedule, assign, modify, change and
discontinue city operations, work shifts and working hours.
   (J)   The right to establish, modify, change and discontinue work standards.
   (K)   The right to hire, examine, classify, train, transfer, assign and
retain employees; suspend, discharge or take other disciplinary action against
employees in accordance with applicable law and to relieve employees from
duties due to disciplinary reasons or other legitimate reasons, and make
promotions and demotions.
   (L)   The right to change, modify and alter the composition of the work
force.
   (M)   The right to determine, establish, set and implement policies for the
selection, training and promotion of employees; in accordance with applicable
law.
   (N)   The right to establish, implement, modify and change procedures and
policies for the safety, health and protection of the city property and
personnel.
   (O)   The right to adopt, modify, change, enforce or discontinue any
existing rules, regulations, procedures and policies which are not in direct
conflict with any provisions of this chapter.
   (P)   The right to establish, select, modify, change or discontinue
equipment, materials and the layout and arrangement of equipment.
   (Q)   The right to determine the size and character of inventories and their
disposal.
   (R)   The right to control the use of properly, machinery inventories, and
equipment owned, leased or borrowed by the city.
   (S)   The location, establishment, and organization of new departments,
divisions, subdivisions, or facilities thereof, and the relocations of
departments, subdivisions, locations and the closing and discontinuance of
same.
   (T)   The above enumeration of management rights is not inclusive of all
such rights and all rights granted the city by Constitution, statute, charter,
ordinance or in any manner are retained by the city.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.012 AUTHORIZED ALIEN STATUS AND CITIZENSHIP.
   Verification of employment eligibility. All applicants must cooperate with
the city in its compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
Applicants who refuse to supply the documentation necessary to prove that they
are American citizens or aliens authorized to work in this country will be
dropped from consideration for the position. Supervisors shall see that
appropriate forms are properly completed and retained as required by law. All
employees must file an I-9 Form with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.013 E-VERIFY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall administer the e-verify enrollment of all
city new-hires; and shall ensure that appropriate forms are properly completed
and retained as required by law.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.014 ELIGIBILITY FOR LOCAL PUBLIC BENEFITS.
   All city employees shall complete a verification of eligibility for local
public benefits form to ensure entitlement to a federal public benefit as
defined by IC 12-32-1-2 and state or local public benefits as defined by IC 12-
32-1-3. This form shall be administered and retained by the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office as required by law.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
§ 36.025 APPLICABILITY.
   The policies contained in this chapter and throughout the Greensburg
personnel policies handbook apply to all city employees, except when in direct
conflict with special employment conditions set forth by various statutes
governing employment relationships.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.026 RECRUITMENT.
   (A)   Authorization to recruit and hire to fill a vacancy in an existing or
newly created position tests solely with the Mayor, the Clerk-Treasurer, for
those employees under his or her hiring authority, and the Board of Works and
Public Safety; department heads normally make hiring recommendations.
   (B)   Basic qualifications of formal education, background and experience
shall be determined before recruiting begins and shall be based upon job
requirements as well as dictates of applicable federal, state and local laws.
   (C)   Open and new job opportunities, insofar as practicable, shall be
afforded employees in line with seniority principles subject to ability and job
qualifications to be reasonably determined by management. Except for police
officer and firefighter positions, and insofar as practicable, open and new
jobs shall be posted on city work days, during which time any employee may make
application in writing.
Whenever vacancies occur or new positions are created, the Mayor shall be
notified of the vacancy, and this information shall be publicly posted within
city facilities for a minimum of seven calendar days or until the position is
filled. Bulletin boards located in city government buildings will be used for
posting job openings. The city encourages internal promotion and transfer
whenever possible.
   (D)   At the discretion of management and based upon the urgency and
specialization of the job requirements, newspaper and trade journal advertising
may be used in recruiting employees. Advertisements shall describe the
position, basic qualifications and state that the city is “An Equal Opportunity
Employer.”
   (E)   The city policy is to hire, promote, and transfer employees on the
basis of individual merit and to avoid favoritism or discrimination in making
such decisions.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.027 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   All applicants are required to complete a city employment application
form. The city’s standardized job application form shall be maintained in the
Mayor’s office and made available to department supervisors, and applicants for
use.
   (B)   Applications for city employment shall request only that information
necessary for rational decision making. Only questions specifically related to
occupational standards shall be asked.
   (C)   All applicants must complete the city’s employment application in its
entirety. Applicants must account for periods of employment and unemployment.
   (D)   The city relies upon the accuracy of information contained in the
employment application, as well as the accuracy of other data presented
throughout the hiring process and employment. Any misrepresentations,
falsifications, or material omissions in any of this information or data may
result in the city’s exclusion of the individual from further consideration for
employment or, if the person has been hired, termination of employment.
   (E)   Applications will be retained in active files for 180 days.
Applications shall be returned to Clerk-Treasurer prior to hiring or being
placed on the city payroll.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.028 APPLICANT TESTING.
   Applicant tests including, but not limited to, basic written skills tests,
mechanical or physical agility, and psychological evaluations may be used by
the city in the selection process for certain positions. Such tests are to be
related to the requirements of the position.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.029 PRE-EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS.
   Pre-employment interviews may be used to gather information and screen
applicants for city employment. Initial interviews may be conducted by the
officer receiving the application, although the final interview is reserved for
the administrative officer making the employment decision.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.030 CONDITIONAL OFFER OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Applicants may receive a conditional offer of employment conditioned on the
successful completion of all established prerequisite requirements of the
position, which may include passing medical, physical, and mental examinations
or requirements, reference and criminal background checks, and driving record
requirements. Applicants who receive a conditional offer of employment are not
employees of the city unless they receive an official letter of employment. The
city may withdraw the conditional offer of employment at any time for any
reason, except as otherwise prohibited by law.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
   Once employed by the city, the office supervisor shall conduct an informal
orientation to familiarize the new employee with the city. The supervisor shall
provide the new employee with a copy of the city employee handbook.
(Ord. 1999-22, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 2004-15, passed 1-4-05)
§ 36.031 OFFER OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Applicants who receive a conditional offer of employment are not
employees of the city unless they receive an official offer of employment.
   (B)   The offer of employment will outline:
      (1)   Position/department;
      (2)   Employment status;
      (3)   Work schedule;
      (4)   Pay rate;
      (5)   Probationary period;
      (6)   FLSA status;
      (7)   Benefits eligibility; and
      (8)   Required position certifications.
   (C)   The offer of employment is contingent on satisfactory proof of
permission to work in this country, and the receipt of satisfactory references.
   (D)   The offer of employment shall be signed by the applicant and
authorized official and submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer before the applicant
is considered an employee of the city. The offer of employment form will be
maintained in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.032 MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS.
   To help ensure that employees are able to perform their duties safely,
medical examinations may be required. After a conditional offer of employment
has been extended during the hiring process, applicants may be required to
undergo a pre-employment medical examination by a health professional of the
city’s choice, at the city’s expense. Employees shall be required to submit to
fitness for duty medical or psychological evaluations prior to returning from
military leave or employee illness or injury leave under FMLA, or to meet terms
and conditions associated with performing job duties. Applicants may be
required to submit to a drug test prior to being hired by the city. Information
on an employee’s medical condition or history shall be kept in a confidential
file that is separate from other employee information and maintained by the
Clerk-Treasurer. Access to this information will be limited to the employee,
department head of the employee and persons designated by the Mayor on a need-
to-know basis.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.033 EMPLOYMENT CATEGORIES.
   (A)   It is the intent of the city to clarify the definitions of employment
classifications so that employees understand their employment status and
benefit eligibility. Any changes in employment classification shall be conveyed
in writing. No change in employment classification is to be construed or
inferred without written notification from the hiring authority. Each employee
is assigned to one of the following employment categories:
      (1)   “REGULAR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES” are those who are not in a part-time,
temporary or probationary status and who arc designated in writing as full-time
and regularly scheduled to work the city’s full-time schedule, normally 35 to
40 hours per work week. Generally, they are eligible for the employer’s benefit
package, subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of each benefit
program.
      (2)   “AFFORDABLE CARE ACT FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES” are those who are not in
a part-time, regular full-time, or temporary or seasonal status and who are
designated in writing as Affordable Care Act full-time and regularly scheduled
to work 30 or more hours per work week. These employees are eligible for
legally mandated benefits such as worker’s compensation, social security
benefits, and certain city benefits subject to the terms, conditions, and
limitations of each benefit program.
      (3)   “PART-TIME EMPLOYEES” are those who are not assigned to a full-
time, temporary or seasonal status and who are typically scheduled to work less
than the full-time schedule. Although, part-time employees may be required to
work additional hours based on staffing and business needs of the city. While
they do receive all legally mandated benefits (such as worker’s compensation
and social security benefits), they are ineligible for all of the city’s other
benefit programs.
      (4)   “TEMPORARY OR SEASONAL EMPLOYEES” are those who are hired as
interim replacements, to temporarily supplement the work force, or to assist in
the completion of a specific project. Employment assignments in this category
are of a limited duration. While temporary employees receive all legally-
mandated benefits (such as worker’s compensation insurance and social
security), they are ineligible for all of the city’s other benefit programs.
   (B)   Employment beyond any initially stated period or in excess of
initially projected work hours does not in any way imply a change in employment
status. Full-time, part-time, temporary and seasonal employees retain that
status unless and until notified of a change.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.034 EMPLOYMENT REFERENCE AND CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   To ensure that individuals who are employed by the city are well
qualified and have a strong potential to be productive and successful, it is
the policy of the city to check the employment references of all applicants.
   (B)   For employment reference checks requested by outside employers of past
or current city employees, the city will respond in writing only to those
reference check inquiries that are submitted in writing.
Responses to such inquiries will confirm only dates of employment, wage rates,
and position(s) held. No additional employment data will be released without a
written authorization and release signed by the individual who is the subject
of the inquiry.
   (C)   At the discretion of the Mayor and/or department heads, applicants may
be subject to criminal background checks. Requests by the Mayor and/or
department heads for reference, background, and/or credit checks on applicants
should be directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.035 APPLICANT/PERSONNEL FILES.
   (A)   The employment selection procedure shall be documented and recorded.
Accurate personnel records shall be documented and recorded. Accurate personnel
records should be kept on file for each employee for a period of not less than
seven years and should be used to substantiate and support the employment
decision in the event of inquiry.
   (B)   The city shall maintain five separate personnel records concerning the
employee’s employment history.
      (1)   Personnel File. The employee’s personnel file shall contain the
employee’s employment application, emergency information sheet, insurance
enrollment and beneficiary forms, retirement forms, educational
accomplishments, change of address forms, records of training, personnel
policies handbook acknowledgment form, signed offer of employment form, job
description, e-verify enrollment form, eligibility for local public benefits
form, and resume. This file shall be maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer. Certain
documents in this file shall be deemed confidential, and released only to
persons on a need-to-know basis.
      (2)   Administrative File. This file shall contain documentation of
performance such as performance evaluations, disciplinary records, and other
documentation concerning disciplinary actions including employee complaints,
absences, tardiness, administrative leaves, copies of valid driver’s license
for employees required to drive a vehicle in the performance of job duties, and
other related information, This confidential file shall be deemed as exempt
under the Indiana Public Records Law. This file shall be maintained by the
Clerk-Treasurer and released only to persons on a need-to-know basis.
      (3)   Medical File. The employee’s medical file shall contain all medical
information, including health insurance enrollment and beneficiary forms,
disability information, FMLA files, ADA accommodations, worker’s compensation
documents, results of alcohol and drug tests and other medically related
information. This confidential file shall be deemed as exempt under the Indiana
Public Records Law. This file shall be maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer and
released only to persons on a need-to-know basis.
      (4)   Commercial Drivers’ License File. CDL files will be maintained as a
separate file for CDL employees by the department head. This file shall be
verified through BMV testing each calendar year.
      (5)   I-9 File. The I-9 file shall contain the I-9 form. This file shall
be maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 36.036 ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILES.
   (A)   Personnel files are property of the city, and access to the
information they contain is restricted. Generally, only officials and
representatives of the city who have a legitimate reason to review information
in a file are allowed to do so. With reasonable advance notice, an employee may
review material in his or her file. Upon request the city will provide employee
copies of any documents contained in his or her personnel file.
   (B)   No information shall be provided to any person concerning the
employment of the employee other than job title, department, date of hire, date
of termination, and wages. The Clerk-Treasurer shall not provide any
information pursuant to a subpoena or court order sooner than ten calendar days
after the date of receipt of subpoena or court order. Within five calendar days
of the receipt of the subpoena, the City Attorney shall notify the affected
employee(s) of receipt of the subpoena to permit the employee(s) to seek any
appropriate judicial relief from that subpoena.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.037 PERSONAL INFORMATION CHANGES.
   It is the responsibility of each employee to promptly notify the Clerk-
Treasurer of any changes in personal data. Personal mailing addresses,
telephone numbers, number and names of dependents, marital status, individuals
to be contacted in the event of an emergency, educational accomplishments,
driver’s license status and proof of insurance (where applicable), and other
such status reports should be accurate and current at all times. Any unreported
changes in personal status may impact eligibility under the city’s benefits
plans.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.038 ORIENTATION/EXIT INTERVIEWS.
   (A)   Once employed by the city, the department head or designee shall
conduct an informal orientation to familiarize the new employee with the city.
The Clerk-Treasurer or designee shall provide the new employee with a copy of
the Greensburg employee handbook.
   (B)   Upon termination of the employment relationship with an employee, exit
interviews should be scheduled with the department head. The purposes of the
exit interview will include:
      (1)   Verification of the return of all equipment, keys, uniforms, etc.;
      (2)   Assurance of proper payment of unused benefit time according to
city policy, if any days of work, etc.;
      (3)   Continuation of any benefits the employee may be eligible for; and
      (4)   Verification of reason for leaving for unemployment compensation
purposes.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.039 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   The probationary period is intended to give new employees the
opportunity to demonstrate their ability to achieve a satisfactory level of
performance and to determine whether the new position meets their expectations.
The city uses this period to evaluate employee capabilities, work habits, and
overall performance.
   (B)   All new and rehired employees work on a probationary basis for the
first 90 calendar days after their date of hire. Any significant absence will
automatically extend a probationary period by the length of the absence. If the
city determines that the designated probationary period does not allow
sufficient time to thoroughly evaluate the employee’s performance, the
probationary period may be extended for a specified period.
   (C)   Employees who satisfactorily complete the probationary period will be
notified of their new employment classification. Successful completion of the
probationary period does not guarantee continued employment with the city or
change the at-will status of employment with the city.
   (D)   During the probationary period, new employees are eligible for those
benefits that are required by law, such as worker’s compensation insurance and
social security.
   (E)   They may also be eligible for other employer-provided benefits,
subject to the terms and conditions of each benefits program. Employees should
read the information for each specific benefit program for the details on
eligibility requirements. Questions regarding benefits should be directed to
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.040 SUPERVISION AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION.
   (A)   Supervisors and employees are strongly encouraged to discuss job
performance and goals on an informal, day-to-day basis.
   (B)   Additional formal performance reviews may be conducted to provide both
supervisors and employees the opportunity to discuss job tasks, identify and
correct weaknesses, encourage and recognize strengths, and discuss positive,
purposeful approaches for meeting goals. Performance evaluations will be
conducted to determine successful completion of the probationary period, and on
an annual basis.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.041 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT/CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Outside Employment.
      (1)   An employee may hold a job with another organization as long as he
or she satisfactorily performs his or her job responsibilities with the city.
All employees will be judged by the same performance standards and will be
subject to the employer’s scheduling demands, regardless of any existing
outside work requirements.
      (2)   If the city determines that an employee’s outside work interferes
with performance or the ability to meet the requirements of the city as they
are modified from time to time, the employee may be asked to terminate the
outside employment if he or she wishes to remain employed with the city.
      (3)   Outside employment will present a conflict of interest if it has an
actual or potential adverse impact on the city. City employees are encouraged
to file a conflict of interest statement with the County Clerk, State Board of
Accounts, and Clerk-Treasurer whenever an employee’s outside business
activities are directly or indirectly linked to the city in a business
relationship such as vendor, supplier, contractor, or independent sub-
contractor.
      (4)   Employees who are provided family and medical leave under the
city’s FMLA policy for their own serious illness or injury shall not be
employed by outside employers when on FMLA.
   (B)   Conflict of Interest.
      (1)   Employees have an obligation to conduct business within guidelines
that prohibit actual or potential conflicts of interest. This policy
establishes only the framework within which the city wishes the business to
operate.
      (2)   The purpose of these guidelines is to provide general direction so
that employees can seek further clarification on issues related to the subject
of acceptable standards of operation. Contact the Board of Works for more
information or questions about conflicts of interest.
      (3)   An actual or potential conflict of interest occurs when an employee
is in a position to influence a decision that may result in a personal gain for
that employee or for a relative as a result of the city’s business dealings.
For the purpose of this policy, a “RELATIVE” is any person who is related by
blood or marriage, or whose relationship with the employee is similar to that
of persons who are related by blood or marriage.
      (4)   No “presumption of guilt” is created by the mere existence of a
relationship with outside firms. However, if employees have any influence on
transactions involving purchases, contracts, or leases, it is imperative that
they disclose to the Board of Works as soon as possible the existence of any
actual or potential conflict of interest; therefore, safeguards can be
established to protect all parties. Employees who have a conflict of interest
are to file a conflict of interest form with the Clerk-Treasurer, and State
Board of Accounts.
      (5)   Personal gain may result not only in cases where an employee or
relative has a significant ownership in a firm with which the city does
business, but also when an employee or relatives receives any type of kickback,
bribe, substantial gift, or special consideration as a result of any
transaction or business dealing involving the city.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.042 REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION.
   Occasionally, employees of the city are contacted by outsiders for
information about current or former employees, or about the organization’s
policies, practices or projects. All such requests must be referred to the
department heads.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.043 LAYOFF AND RECALL.
   (A)   The city maintains the right to reduce its workforce. Examples of
reasons when a reduction might occur include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Lack of work;
      (2)   Lack of funds or projected lack of funds;
      (3)   Transfer of work load responsibilities;
      (4)   Job abolishment; and/or
      (5)   Reorganization.
   (B)   Any such reduction will be finalized by each department head who will
select the employees for separation based upon seniority and ability with
ability prevailing.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.044 FULL-TIME TO ELECTED OFFICIAL EMPLOYMENT.
   In the event that a full-time employee is elected to a full-time city
elective office, he or she shall be compensated for any unused vacation or
compensatory time earned as a regular full-time employee. Such employee’s sick
days will be frozen and available for use in the event the elected official
returns to a non-elected full-time position without any interruption in city
employment. Also, if such elected official returns to a non-elective full-time
position his or her time in elective office shall count as years of service for
the purpose of determining the amount of eligible vacation time or other
benefits based on years of service with the city.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.045 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2012 IC 36-1-20.2 specifies that relatives may not
be employed by the city in positions that result in one relative being in the
direct line of supervision of the other relative. An employee who is employed
by the city as of June 30, 2012, is not subject to the nepotism provision
unless the employee has a break in employment with this city in the future.
   (B)   Direct line of supervision is defined as an elected officer or
employee who is in a position to affect the terms and conditions of another
individual’s employment, including making decisions about work assignments,
compensation, grievances, advancement, or performance evaluation.
   (C)   The Indiana Code defines “RELATIVE” to include a spouse; a parent or
step-parent; a child or stepchild; a brother, sister, step-brother, or step-
sister; a niece or nephew; an aunt or uncle; a daughter-in-law or son-in-law;
an adopted child; and a brother or sister by half blood.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer and each city department head shall annually
certify in writing that the office or department is in compliance with the
nepotism policy under IC 36-1-20.2. Such certification must be submitted to the
Mayor not later than December 31 of each year.
   (E)   An elected official or department head that is in violation of this
policy may be subject to penalties for perjury which is a class D felony with
up to three years prison sentence. The city’s failure to adopt policies under
IC 36-1-20.2 (Nepotism) will result in the Department of Local Government
Finance not approving the city’s budget or any additional appropriations for
the ensuing calendar year until the State Board of Accounts certifies the city
is in compliance.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.046 ELECTIVE OFFICER AND CITY EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2013 IC 3-5-9 specifies that a city employee is
considered to have resigned from employment with the city if the employee
assumes the elected executive office of the city or becomes an elected member
of the city’s legislative or fiscal body.
   (B)   A volunteer firefighter may not assume or hold a position on the
executive, legislative, or fiscal body of the city if the city receives fire
protection services from the department in which the volunteer firefighter
serves, fire protection services provided under mutual aid agreements are
excluded. An employee or volunteer who assumes or holds an elected office on
January 1, 2013 may continue to hold the office and be employed by the city or
serve as a volunteer firefighter until the expiration of the term of office.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.047 CONTRACTING WITH THE CITY.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2012 IC 36-1-21 states that the city may enter into
a contract or renew a contract for the procurement of goods and services or a
contract for public works with: (l)an individual who is a relative of an
elected official or; (2) a business entity that is wholly or partially owned by
a relative of an elected official only if the elected official files a full
disclosure which must:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Describe the contract or purchase;
      (3)   Describe the relationship of the official to the business;
      (4)   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
      (5)   Be submitted to the legislative body prior to final action;
      (6)   Be filed (within 15 days of final action) with the State Board of
Accounts and the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   If a contract is entered into with a relative, the appropriate agency
of the city shall make a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price offered or make a certified
statement of the reasons why the vendor or contractor was selected. Contracts
in existence prior to July 1, 2012 are excepted.
   (C)   An elected official that is in violation of this policy may be subject
to penalties for perjury which is a class D felony with up to three years
prison sentence. The city’s failure to adopt policies or failure to include a
statement in the R-100 Personnel Report under IC 36-1-21 (Contracting with a
Unit) will result in the Department of Local Government Finance not approving
the city’s budget or any additional appropriations for the ensuing calendar
year.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
SALARY ADMINISTRATION
§ 36.055 APPLICABILITY.
   The policies contained in this chapter and throughout the Greensburg
personnel policies handbook apply to all city employees, except when in direct
conflict with special employment conditions set forth by various statutes
governing employment relationships.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.056 NORMAL WORK WEEK.
   Each department’s normal work week shall begin on 12:01 a.m. Sunday and end
the following Saturday midnight, unless otherwise designated by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.057 WORK HOURS.
   (A)   City offices and departments shall observe the hours of work
designated and established by the Mayor. The regular work hours may be changed
by the Mayor upon one week’s notice to each department head. Certain
departments may maintain varied work schedules under special employment
conditions set forth by governing statutes.
   (B)   Employees shall be relieved of all duties and be free to leave their
posts during their lunch time, unless otherwise directed by the department
head.
   (C)   Department heads will advise employees of the times their schedules
will normally begin and end. Work hours may be temporarily altered to flex work
schedules at the discretion of the department head. Any permanent change to
work hours must be approved by the Mayor.
   (D)   (1)   Mayor’s Office and Plan Department: 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday with a one-hour unpaid meal period per workday. A normal
week’s work shall consist of 35 hours. Work schedule changes shall be approved
by the Mayor.
      (2)   City Clerk-Treasurer: 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday
with a one-hour unpaid meal period per workday. A normal week’s work shall
consist of 35 hours. Work schedule changes shall be approved by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (3)   City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects, Utilities,
and Water Office: 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday with a one-hour
unpaid meal period per workday. A normal week’s work shall consist of 40 hours.
Work schedule changes shall be approved by the Mayor.
      (4)   Street Department, Sewer, Sewer Plant, Water Plant Laborers, and
Sanitation Department: 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., and one- hour unpaid meal period
per workday. A normal week’s work shall consist of 40 hours. Work schedule
changes shall be approved by the Mayor.
      (5)   Water Plant Operators: Operators shall work one of the following
two shifts: 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., or 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Employees shall
work on a 28-day work schedule. Operators shall have a one-hour paid meal
period per workday. Work schedule changes shall be approved by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.058 JOB CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   The city has adopted the Factor Evaluation System (FES) of job
classification for all city jobs. It is regularly monitored and revised to
reflect changes in job duties as they occur.
   (B)   All city positions, except those of elected officials are
systematically grouped into job classes based on their fundamental
similarities.
   (C)   The classifications are as follows:
      (1)   (COMOT) Computer/Office Machine Operation/Technician;
      (2)   (POLE) Protective Occupations and Law Enforcement;
      (3)   (LTC) Labor, Trades, and Crafts;
      (4)   (PAT) Professional/Administrative/Technological.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.059 JOB CLASSIFICATION/PAY SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Any change in job classifications or pay rates must be approved by the
City Council. The Board of Works is established to oversee maintenance of the
job classification and pay plan. The Board of Works serves in an advisory
capacity.
   (B)   The Board of Works shall have the authority to recommend a change in
position classification of jobs filed for review.
   (C)   In the event that a department head wishes to create a new position
not currently classified or reorganize jobs within a department, review
seniority, abolish a position, or if an employee desires to have a job
classification review made of his or her position, the department head shall
make a written request to the Mayor.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.060 COMPENSATION.
   The City Council adopts an annual salary ordinance that establishes salaries
for all city elected offices, appointed officers, and employees of the city.
The city may use the FES job classification system to establish compensation
rates and pay policies. Approved pay rates generally become effective at the
beginning of the next budget year, unless otherwise indicated. All appropriate
city documentation must be provided to the Clerk-Treasurer prior to an employee
being compensated.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.061 WAGE POLICY.
   Employee’s wages shall be docked for violations of the sick leave and/or
vacation policy of the City as follows:
   (A)   Unauthorized time away from work shall be subtracted from existing
leave time in the following order: earned compensatory time, personal leave
days, and vacation days.
   (B)   An employee’s wages shall be docked computed on an hourly basis for
the unauthorized time away from work.
   (C)   The penalty for employees paid on an hourly wage shall be the amount
of the gross hourly wage.
   (D)   The penalty for employees paid at a salary rate shall be computed by
the normal work hours in a week divided into the gross weekly salary to
determine the hourly rate of pay.
   (E)   The wages of an elected official cannot be docked, as set by law.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.062 TIMEKEEPING.
   (A)   Federal and state laws require the city to keep an accurate record of
time worked in order to calculate employee pay and benefits.
The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
require that certain records be kept on each covered non-exempt worker. The
record must include accurate information about the employee and data about
hours worked and wages earned. Employers are required to maintain the following
records:
      (1)   Employee’s full name, as used for social security purposes, and on
the same record, the employee’s identifying symbol or number if such is used in
place of name on any time, work, or payroll records;
      (2)   Address, including zip code;
      (3)   Birth date if younger than 19;
      (4)   Sex and occupation;
      (5)   Time of day of week when employee’s workweek begins, hours worked
each day, and total hours worked each workweek;
      (6)   Basis on which the employee’s wages are paid;
      (7)   Regular hourly rate;
      (8)   Total daily or weekly straight-time earnings;
      (9)   Total overtime earnings for the workweek;
      (10)   All additions to or deductions from the employee’s wages;
      (11)   Total wages paid each pay period; and
      (12)   Date of payment and the pay period covered by the payment.
   (C)   IC 5-11-9-4 requires that public sector employees maintain records
showing which hours were worked each day by officers and employees.
   (D)   These records are subject to audit by the State Board of Accounts.
Time worked is all the time actually spent on the job performing assigned
duties.
   (E)   Every employee is responsible for accurately recording their time
worked on city forms or time keeping machines.
   (F)   Employees should accurately record the time they begin and end their
work and the time they begin and end each meal period. Employees should also
record the beginning and ending time of any split shift or departure from work
for personal reasons. Overtime work must always be approved by the department
head before it is performed.
   (G)   Tampering, altering, or falsifying time records, or recording time on
another employee’s time record shall result in disciplinary action, including
discharge.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.063 ROUNDING.
   Time is to be recorded to the quarter hour, using the seven minute rule
(i.e., leeway of seven minutes before and seven minutes after scheduled start
and stop times). All employee work commenced more than seven minutes before the
start time work hour will be paid on a quarter hour schedule; all employee work
continued more than seven minutes after the end of last work hour will be paid
on a quarter hour schedule.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.064 MULTIPLE POSITIONS.
   Non-exempt employees working in more than one city position shall count the
combined hours worked in more than one position in determining overtime
obligations under the FLSA.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.065 TIMESHEETS.
   (A)   (1)   It is the responsibility of those employees who are required to
maintain a timesheet, to properly record the time that he or she has worked
during a payroll period. Any used earned vacation time, sick leave,
compensatory time, personal leave, or any other approved leave must be listed
where indicated. At the end of the reporting period, the employee will sign the
timesheet, verifying its accuracy.
      (2)   The supervisor will counter-sign the timesheet, indicating that the
hours claimed were actually worked. Failure by an employee to submit a
timesheet when required or submitting a falsified timesheet may result in
disciplinary action. For detailed instructions on how and when to complete
timesheets, employees should consult with their department head.
   (B)   Time Records. Time records on all part-time and full-time city
employees, excluding Water/Sewer employees, shall be kept by the supervisor in
charge and submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office each pay period. Time
records for Water/Sewer employees shall be submitted to the Water Office.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.066 PAYDAYS.
   (A)   All employees are paid weekly on Friday. Each paycheck will include
earnings for all work performed through the end of the previous payroll period.
   (B)   In the event that a regularly scheduled payday falls on a day off
(e.g., a holiday), employees will be paid on the last day of work before the
regularly scheduled payday.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.067 PAY CORRECTIONS.
   The city takes all reasonable steps to ensure that employees receive the
correct amount of pay in each paycheck and that employees are paid promptly on
the scheduled payday. In the unlikely event there is an error in the amount of
pay, the department head should promptly bring the discrepancy to the attention
of the Clerk-Treasurer so corrections can be made as quickly as possible.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.068 PAY DEDUCTIONS/GARNISHMENTS.
   (A)   No payroll deductions will be made from an employee paycheck unless
authorized by the employee or required by law. When decreed by court order or
state law, including past due taxes, the city will deduct an amount determined
by the court or the state from the gross wages of the employee. Employees are
required to report changes in family status, address, or other information that
could affect amount of deductions withheld.
   (B)   The city is legally required to make certain deductions from each
employee’s paycheck, including federal, state and local income taxes. The city
must also deduct social security taxes on each employee’s earnings.
   (C)   The city offers programs and benefits authorized by the Mayor.
Eligible employees may voluntarily authorize deductions from their paychecks to
cover costs to participate in these programs.
   (D)   When the city is served a writ of garnishment requiring payment of a
portion of the employee’s compensation a processing fee as allowed by law may
be deducted from the employee’s pay and retained by the city.
   (E)   Questions concerning paycheck deductions and/or methods of calculation
should be directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.069 EMPLOYMENT TERMINATION.
   (A)   Termination of employment is an inevitable part of personnel activity
within any organization, and many of the reasons for termination are routine.
Below are examples of some of the most common circumstances under which
employment is terminated:
      (1)   Resignation: Voluntary employment termination initiated by the
employee. Although advance notice is not required, the city requests at least
two weeks’ notice from the employee. Prior to an employee’s departure, an exit
interview may be scheduled with the department head to discuss the reasons for
resignation and the effect of the resignation on benefits.
      (2)   Discharge: Involuntary employment termination initiated by the
city.
      (3)   Layoff: Involuntary employment termination initiated by the city
for non-disciplinary reasons. A layoff period shall not exceed 24 months;
exceptions must be approved by the Mayor.
      (4)   Retirement: Involuntary employment termination initiated by the
employee meeting state and/or city retirement criteria, such as age and length
of service. Employees will receive their final pay in accordance with
applicable state law.
   (B)   Employee benefits will be affected by employment termination in the
following manner:
      (1)   All earned, vested benefits that are due and payable at termination
will be paid. Some benefits may be continued at the employee’s expense if the
employee so chooses.
      (2)   The employee will be notified in writing of the benefits that may
be continued and of the terms, conditions, and limitations of such continuance.
      (3)   Retirees who were full-time employees, with 20 years of city
employment service and being at least 55 years of age, who are eligible for
city retirement benefits, shall be allowed to continue insurance benefits at
the full expense of the retiree until they are eligible for Medicare.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.070 RETURN OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Employees are responsible for all property, materials, or written
information issued to them or in their possession or control. All property must
be returned by employees on or before their last day of work.
   (B)   Where permitted by applicable laws, the city may withhold from the
employee’s check or final paycheck the cost of any items that are not returned
when required. The city may also take all action deemed appropriate to recover
or protect its property.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.071 OVERTIME AND COMPENSATORY TIME.
   (A)   (1)   Each City employee holds a position that is designated as either
“NON-EXEMPT”, “EXEMPT”, or “EXCLUDED” from federal and state wage and hour
laws.
         (a)   1.   “NON-EXEMPT EMPLOYEES” are entitled to overtime pay at the
rate of one and one-half or compensation time off at the rate of one and one-
half under the specific provisions of federal and state laws.
            2.   Calculating overtime compensation is based on actual hours
worked. Time off on sick leave, vacation leave, personal leave, compensatory
time, and bereavement leave shall not be included as time worked for purposes
of calculating overtime hours. Time off on holidays shall be counted as hours
worked for the purpose of calculating overtime hours, excluding Water Plant
Operators.
         (b)   “EXEMPT EMPLOYEES” are exempt from specific provisions of
federal and state wage and hour laws, and are not entitled to overtime
compensation or compensatory time off under specific provisions of federal and
state laws. Exempt employees must maintain time keeping records to satisfy
Indiana statutes governing public employers. To be considered “EXEMPT”, a
position must comply with federal regulations and laws regarding exempt status.
         (c)   “EXCLUDED EMPLOYEES” are specifically excluded from coverage
under federal and state wage and hour laws (e.g., elected officials).
      (2)   A list of city position titles and Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)
non-exempt, exempt, or excluded status is adopted by reference and attached to
the personnel policies handbook.
      (3)   Calculating overtime compensation is based on actual hours worked.
“Overtime” for non-exempt employees is defined as those hours actually worked
over 40 hours in any given work week, except call-out time. Time off on sick
leave, vacation leave, personal leave, compensatory time, and bereavement leave
shall not be included as time worked for purposes of calculating overtime
hours. Time off on holidays shall be counted as hours worked for the purpose of
calculating overtime hours, excluding Water Plant Operators.
   (B)   Overtime Pay. Overtime pay shall be figured at one and one-half times
the regular hourly pay rate which shall include the base rate plus any other
pay above the base rate. This policy applies to all non-exempt employees of the
city as determined by the City Council’s designation of jobs for compliance
with the Fair Labor Standards Act.
   (C)   Compensatory Time.
      (1)   Compensatory time may be substituted for overtime pay and will be
awarded at the same rate as overtime pay. Compensatory time shall be requested
and approved in advance with the department head. Use of comp-time in lieu of
overtime pay must be determined in advance of working overtime.
      (2)   Non-exempt employees may accrue use of 240 compensatory time hours.
After 240 compensatory time hours, mandatory compensation is paid for overtime.
   (D)   Overtime Approved in Writing. All overtime compensation or
compensatory time shall be approved in writing by the employee’s supervisor at
the time it is granted. A copy shall be maintained in the department of the
employee with a copy provided to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (E)   Failure to Work Scheduled Overtime or Overtime without Authorization.
      (1)   Failure to work scheduled overtime or overtime worked without prior
authorization may result in disciplinary action, up to and including
termination.
      (2)   This policy applies to all non-exempt employees of the city as
determined by the city’s designation of jobs as “non-exempt” under the FLSA.
   (F)   Call-Out Time. All non-exempt employees called out by a supervisor to
return to the workplace and work unscheduled hours, shall be paid at one and
one-half times the regular hourly rate for all call-out hours worked. All
“call-out” time shall be designated on payroll vouchers submitted to the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.072 WORK TIME RESTRICTED.
   Non-exempt employees shall not commence any work activities in behalf of the
city before seven minutes preceding the start of the work shift, or continue
work activities more than seven minutes after completion of the work shift,
unless specifically authorized by their department head.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.073 LONGEVITY PAY.
   All full-time city employees shall be eligible for longevity pay as set
forth by the annual salary ordinance adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.074 EMERGENCY CLOSING.
   (A)   Periodic emergencies, such as severe weather or power failures, can
disrupt city operations, sometimes requiring closing of a work facility. When
such emergencies occur during non-working hours, local radio and/or television
stations will be asked to broadcast notification of the closing.
   (B)   When a city work facility is officially closed by the Mayor for
emergency conditions, before the beginning of the workday, the time off from
scheduled work will be unpaid to full and part-time employees affected by the
facility closing. However, full-time employees may receive compensation for the
day by using vacation, personal days, compensatory time, or by making up this
time within the pay period.
   (C)   Any employee who reports to work and the facility is later closed due
to an emergency after his or her arrival shall be paid for all hours actually
worked that day, not the entire workday. However, full-time employees may
receive compensation for the time by using vacation, personal days,
compensatory time, or by making up this time within the pay period.
   (D)   The Mayor/department head of those employees working in essential
service departments will determine the work schedule of their employees during
the period of time the closing is in effect. Employees who work during the
closing will be compensated at their regular rate of pay and will receive time
and a half for time exceeding 40 hours in the work week, as is customary. No
bonus pay or compensatory time on top of actual time worked will be received by
employees working during the closing.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
§ 36.085 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The policies contained in this chapter and throughout the Greensburg
personnel policies handbook apply to all city employees, except when in direct
conflict with special employment conditions set forth by various statutes
governing employment relationships.
   (B)   Eligible employees in the city are provided a wide range of benefits.
A number of the programs (such as social security, worker’s compensation, state
disability, and unemployment insurance) cover all employees in the manner
prescribed by law. Benefit eligibility is dependent upon the employee’s
classification as an elected official or regular full-time employee.
   (C)   Your supervisor can identify the programs for which you are eligible.
Details of many of these programs can be found elsewhere in the employee
handbook.
   (D)   Some benefit programs may require contributions from the employee, but
most are fully paid by the city.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.086 VACATION BENEFITS.
   (A)   Vacation time off with pay is available to eligible employees to
provide opportunities for rest, relaxation, and personal pursuits. Regular
full-time employees are eligible to earn and use vacation time as described in
this policy and prescribed in the schedules below.
   (B)   New employees will earn vacation time after their first year of
employment according to the following schedule:
 
                   VACATION TIME EARNED AFTER 1 YEAR
                   UTILITY,
                   SANITATION,      MAYOR’S OFFICE, CITY CLERK-TREASURER, &
MONTH EMPLOYED     STREET, WATER/   PLAN
                   SEWAGE PLANT, &
                   ENGINEERING/PLAN
January - March    40 hours         35 hours
April - June       32 hours         28 hours
July - September   20 hours         17.5 hours
October - December 12 hours         10.5 hours
 
   (C)   For the first year of employment, vacation time will be computed from
the employee’s date of hire, and earned on their date of hire. Vacation leave
shall be taken during the calendar year that such time is earned.
   (D)   Vacation time will be calculated on a calendar year following the
employee’s completion of one year of employment. Employees shall be granted
vacation leave hours for the two-year level on January 1 after their
anniversary date of hire.
   (E)   The amount of paid vacation time employees receive each year increases
with the length of their employment as shown in the following schedule. The
first column in the vacation schedule applies to employees in Utilities, Water
Office, Water Plant, Street, Sanitation, and Engineering/Plan Departments.
   (F)   Once employees enter an eligible employment classification, they begin
to earn paid vacation time according to the schedule. They can request use of
vacation time according to the schedule below.
 
                  VACATION TIME EARNED
                  UTILITY,
YEARS OF ELIGIBLE SANITATION, STREET, MAYOR’S OFFICE, CITY CLERK-TREASURER, &
SERVICE           WATER/SEWAGE PLANT, PLAN
                  & ENGINEERING/PLAN
January 1st after 80 Hours            70 Hours
1 year
After 2 years     80 Hours            70 Hours
After 7 years     120 Hours           105 Hours
After 15 years    160 Hours           140 Hours
After 20 years    200 Hours           175 Hours
 
   (G)   Vacation time shall not be taken in increments of less than half the
employee’s normal work shift, except when used during FMLA which is one-hour
increments, and must be scheduled in advance.
   (H)   To take vacation, employees shall request advance approval from their
supervisors. Requests will be reviewed based on a number of factors, including
business needs and staffing requirements. The head of each department may
designate by rule the time when each employee under his or her supervision may
take vacation leave; the time at which department heads or appointed officials
may select their vacations shall be designated by the Mayor.
   (I)   Vacation time off is paid at the employee’s straight time pay rate at
the time of vacation. An employee taking a vacation during a week in which a
holiday falls is entitled to an extra day of vacation, which must be scheduled
with the department head prior to taking same.
Employees shall use available paid vacation leave time by the end of the year
in which time is earned; exceptions must be requested in writing by the
employee and approved by the department head on or before December 31 of the
year in which time is earned. A letter of explanation from the department head
shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer if vacation time is requested to be
carried over, and approved or denied by the Mayor in writing. Any vacation time
approved to be carried over by the Mayor shall be used by the employee by the
last day of February in the year carried over.
   (J)   No pay shall be issued for earned vacation time except upon separation
from employment with the city, when earned but unused vacation time for that
year will be paid.
   (K)   Employees who are terminated for disciplinary reasons shall not be
entitled to pay for any unused vacation time.
   (L)   An employee’s termination date may not be extended to gain additional
vacation time.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.087 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   (1)   The Council provides city employees with paid holidays each
year. The Mayor shall specify when the paid holidays will be observed by the
city each year. The holiday schedule will be appropriately posted in city
facilities in December for the following year.
      (2)   The Mayor may designate other holidays at his or her discretion.
      (3)   According to applicable restrictions, the city will grant paid
holiday time off to all eligible employees immediately upon assignment to an
eligible employment classification.
      (4)   Time off on holidays shall be counted as hours worked for the
purpose of calculating overtime hours, excluding Water Plant Operators. Holiday
pay will be calculated based on the employee’s straight time pay rate (as of
the date of the holiday) times the number of hours the employee would otherwise
have worked on that day. (For example; seven hours, eight hours, ten hours,
twelve hours).
      (5)   All full-time employees shall receive regular pay for those
holidays designated by the Mayor. Part-time and temporary employees shall not
receive compensation for holidays so designated.
      (6)   If an employee, excluding Water Plant Operators, is required to
work on a recognized holiday, he or she will receive holiday pay at one and
one-half times his or her straight-time rate for the hours worked on the
holiday. Straight-time, or base rate, pay is the employee’s weekly rate of pay
divided by the regular number of work week hours.
      (7)   Before being paid for holidays the employee shall have worked the
immediately preceding scheduled work day and the next succeeding work day,
unless excused for vacation leave or excused from work using a sick day because
of personal illness.
   (B)   Water Plant Operators. Water Plant Operators shall receive holiday pay
for each designated holiday. Holiday pay will be calculated based on the
employee’s straight time pay rate (as of the date of the holiday) times the
number of hours the employee would otherwise have worked on that day. Operators
who are required to work their regularly scheduled workday on holidays shall
receive holiday pay plus straight time pay for the hours worked on the holiday.
Only hours actually worked on the holiday will be used in calculating overtime.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.088 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (FMLA).
   (A)   The city shall comply with all regulations as described in the Family
and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) of 1993 including all subsequent revisions. This
policy serves as a general description of employee’s FMLA rights; therefore, in
the event a conflict arises between this policy and applicable law, employees
shall be granted all such rights allowed by law. The city shall adhere to the
“General Notice Requirements” prescribed by the Department of Labor through the
following actions:
      (1)   Posting required FMLA information explaining provisions of the Act
and procedures for filing complaints of violations of the Act with the Wage and
Hour Division of the Department of Labor. This information shall be posted
prominently where it can be readily viewed by employees and applicants for
employment; and
      (2)   Providing this general notice to each city employee by including
the notice in the personnel policies handbook or other written guidance to
employees concerning employee benefits and leave rights. The general notice may
be distributed electronically as deemed appropriate by the city.
   (B)   Entitlement.
      (1)   Eligible employees are entitled to 12 weeks of unpaid FMLA leave
for the following situations:
         (a)   The birth of a son or daughter, and to care for the newborn
child;
         (b)   The placement with the employee of a son or daughter for
adoption or foster care;
         (c)   To care for the employee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent with
a serious health condition; and
         (d)   The employee’s own serious health condition that makes the
employee unable to perform the functions of one’s position.
      (2)   Serious Health Condition Defined. For purposes of FMLA, a “SERIOUS
HEALTH CONDITION” is defined as an illness, injury, impairment, or physical or
mental condition that involves inpatient care (an overnight stay in a hospital,
hospice, or residential medical care facility), including any period of
incapacity or any subsequent treatment in connection with such inpatient care,
or a condition that requires continuing care by a licensed health care
provider. This policy is intended to cover illnesses of a serious and long-term
nature resulting in recurring or lengthy absences.
      (2)   Chronic or Long-term Health Condition Defined. A “CHRONIC OR LONG-
TERM HEALTH CONDITION” generally results in a period of three consecutive days
of incapacity, with the first visit to the health care provider within seven
days of the onset of the incapacity and a second visit within 30 days of the
incapacity. Chronic conditions requiring periodic health care visits for
treatment must take place at least twice a year.
   (C)   Eligibility.
      (1)   (a)   An “ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE” is an employee of a covered employer
who:
            1.   Has been employed by the employer for at least 12 months; and
            2.   Has been employed for at least 1,250 hours of service during
the 12-month period immediately preceding the commencement of leave.
         (b)   Separate periods of employment with the city shall be counted
towards the 12-month requirement provided that the break in service does not
exceed seven years, unless the separate periods of employment are due to
National Guard or Reserve military service obligations or where a written
agreement exists concerning the employer’s intention to rehire the employee
after a break in service.
      (2)   Intermittent Leave or Reduced Leave Schedule. Intermittent leave or
leave on a reduced leave schedule must be medically necessary due to a serious
health condition or a serious injury or illness. An employee shall advise the
city, upon request, of the reasons why the intermittent/reduced leave schedule
is necessary and of the schedule for treatment, if applicable. The employee and
the city shall attempt to work out a schedule for such leave that meets the
employee’s needs without unduly disrupting the city’s operations, subject to
the approval of the health care provider.
   (D)   Employee Notice Requirements.
      (1)   Foreseeable FMLA Leave.
         (a)   1.   An employee must provide the city at least 30 days’ advance
written notice before FMLA leave is to begin if the need for the leave is
foreseeable based on an expected birth, placement for adoption or foster care,
or planned medical treatment for a serious health condition of the employee or
of a family member.
            2.   If 30 days’ notice is not practicable, because of a lack of
knowledge of approximately when leave will be required to begin, a change in
circumstances, or a medical emergency, notice must be given as soon as
practicable - typically either the same day or the next business day of needing
such leave.
            3.   Those employees who do not provide at least 30 days’ notice
for foreseeable leave, shall be required to explain the reason(s) why such
notice was not practicable under the city’s FMLA policy.
            4.   When planning medical treatment, the employee must consult
with the employer and make a reasonable effort to schedule the treatment so as
not to disrupt unduly the employer’s operations, subject to the approval of the
health care provider.
         (b)   Employee Failure to Provide Notice.
            1.   When the need for FMLA leave is foreseeable at least 30 days
in advance and an employee fails to give timely advance notice with no
reasonable excuse, the employer may delay FMLA coverage until 30 days after the
date the employee provides notice. The need for leave and the approximate date
leave would be taken must have been clearly foreseeable to the employee 30 days
in advance of the leave.
            2.   When the need for FMLA leave is foreseeable fewer than 30 days
in advance and an employee fails to give notice as soon as practicable under
the particular facts and circumstances, the extent to which an employer may
delay FMLA coverage for leave depends on the facts of the particular case.
      (2)   Unforeseeable FMLA Leave.
         (a)   1.   When the approximate timing of the need for leave is not
foreseeable, an employee must provide notice to the city as soon as practicable
under the facts and circumstances of the particular case. It generally should
be practicable for the employee to provide notice of leave that is
unforeseeable within the time prescribed by the employer’s usual and customary
notice requirements applicable to such leave.
            2.   Notice may be given by the employee’s “spokesperson” (e.g.,
spouse, adult family member, or other responsible party) if the employee is
unable to do so personally.
         (b)   Employee Failure to Provide Notice. When the need for FMLA leave
is unforeseeable and an employee fails to give notice in accordance with the
city’s FMLA policy, the extent to which the city may delay FMLA coverage for
leave depends on the facts of the particular case.
      (3)   Requesting FMLA Leave.
         (a)   When an employee seeks leave due to a FMLA-qualifying reason for
which the city has previously provided the employee FMLA-protected leave, the
employee must specifically reference either the qualifying reason for leave or
the need for FMLA leave.
         (b)   Employees should contact their department head to secure such
forms and procedures used for requesting leave under the city’s family and
medical leave policy. All requests for FMLA leave must be submitted, in
writing, to the department head. Department heads shall provide the Mayor with
such requests. The Mayor will make a determination of approval or denial of
FMLA.
   (E)   Employer Notice Requirements.
      (1)   Eligibility and Rights and Responsibilities.
         (a)   When an employee requests FMLA leave, or when the city acquires
knowledge that an employee’s leave may be for an FMLA-qualifying reason, the
city must notify the employee of the employee’s eligibility to take FMLA leave
within five business days, absent extenuating circumstances.
         (b)   Employee eligibility is determined, and notice shall be
provided, at the commencement of the first instance of leave for each FMLA
qualifying reason in the applicable 12-month period.
         (c)   The city shall use the Department of Labor form WH-381 (Notice
of Eligibility and Rights & Responsibilities) to satisfy requirements under
this section.
      (2)   Designation Notice.
         (a)   The employer is responsible in all circumstances for designating
leave as FMLA-qualifying, and for giving notice of the designation to the
employee. When the city has enough information to determine whether the leave
is being taken for a FMLA-qualifying reason (e.g., after receiving a
certification), the city shall notify the employee whether the leave will be
designated and will be counted as FMLA leave within five business days absent
extenuating circumstances.
         (b)   Only one notice of designation is required for each FMLA-
qualifying reason per applicable 12-month period, regardless of whether the
leave taken due to the qualifying reason will be a continuous block of leave or
intermittent or reduced schedule leave.
         (c)   If the city determines that the leave will not be designated as
FMLA-qualifying (e.g., if the leave is not for a reason covered by FMLA or the
FMLA leave entitlement has been exhausted), the city shall notify the employee
of that determination.
         (d)   If the City has sufficient information to designate the leave as
FMLA leave immediately after receiving notice of the employee’s need for leave,
the city may provide the employee with the designation notice at that time.
         (e)   If the information provided by the city to the employee in the
designation notice changes (e.g., the employee exhausts the FMLA leave
entitlement), the city shall provide, within five business days of receipt of
the employee’s first notice of need for leave subsequent to any change, written
notice of the change.
         (f)   The city shall use the Department of Labor form WH-382
(Designation Notice) to satisfy requirements under this section.
   (F)   Certification.
      (1)   (a)   The city shall require that an employee’s leave to care for
the employee’s covered family member with a serious health condition, or due to
the employee’s own serious health condition that makes the employee unable to
perform one or more of the essential functions of the employee’s position, be
supported by a certification issued by the health care provider of the employee
or the employee’s family member.
         (b)   The city shall give notice of a requirement for certification
each time a certification is required. Employees shall be notified through form
WH-381 (Notice of Eligibility and Rights & Responsibilities).
         (c)   The city shall provide an employee with the appropriate
certification form at the same time the city provides an employee with from WH-
381 (Notice of Eligibility and Rights & Responsibilities). The city shall use
Department of Labor forms as follows: WH-380-E (Employee’s Serious Health
Condition) or WH-380-F (Family Member’s Serious Health Condition).
         (d)   The employee must provide the requested and complete
certification to the city within 15 calendar days after the city’s request.
      (2)   Complete and Sufficient Certification.
         (a)   The employee must provide a complete and sufficient
certification to the city. The city shall advise an employee whenever the city
finds a certification incomplete or insufficient, and shall state in writing
what additional information is necessary to make the certification complete and
sufficient. The employee shall have seven calendar days to fix any such
deficiency.
         (b)   If the deficiencies specified by the city are not fixed in the
resubmitted certification, the city may deny the taking of FMLA leave, in
accordance with federal law.
      (3)   Clarification and Authentication.
         (a)   If an employee submits a complete and sufficient certification
signed by the health care provider, the city may not request additional
information from the health care provider. However, the city may contact the
health care provider for purposes of clarification and authentication of the
medical certification (whether initial certification or recertification) after
the city has given the employee an opportunity to fix any deficiencies (see
above). To make such contact, the City Clerk-Treasurer or official designated
by the Mayor will be responsible for obtaining clarification and/or
authentication. Under no circumstances, may the employee’s direct supervisor
contact the employee’s health care provider.
         (b)   The city shall not ask health care providers for additional
information beyond that required by the certification form. The requirements of
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule
must be satisfied when individually-identifiable health information of an
employee is shared with the city by a HIPAA-covered health care provider.
      (4)   Second and Third Medical Opinion.
         (a)   The city reserves the right to require a second medical opinion
from an independent medical provider. The city shall pay for the second opinion
and shall designate a provider who is not an employee of the city. If the two
opinions conflict, the city shall pay for a third opinion.
         (b)   The opinion of the third provider is final and binding on both
the city and the employee.
         (c)   The city may deny FMLA leave to an employee who refuses or whose
family member refuses to release relevant medical records to the health care
provider designated to provide a second or third opinion. The city shall
provide the employee with a copy of second and/or third medical opinions within
five business days.
      (5)   Recertification.
         (a)   The city may require an employee to report periodically during
the leave period on the employee’s leave status and the employee’s intention to
return to work.
         (b)   The city may seek recertifications for leave taken due to an
employee’s own serious health condition or the serious health condition of a
family member, no more than every 30 days unless the employee requests an
extension of leave, circumstances described by the previous certification have
changed significantly, or the city receives information that casts doubt upon
the employee’s stated reason for the absence or the continuing validity of the
certification.
         (c)   Where the employee’s need for leave due to the employee’s own
serious health condition, or the serious health condition of the employee’s
covered family member, lasts beyond a single leave year, the city shall require
the employee to provide a new medical certification in each subsequent leave
year.
         (d)   The employee must provide the requested recertification to the
city within 15 calendar days after the employer’s request.
      (6)   Fitness-for-Duty Certification.
         (a)   The city may require a fitness-for-duty certification before an
employee returns to work from FMLA leave other than intermittent leave. The
city shall notify an employee in form WH-382 (Designation Notice) whether a
fitness-for-duty certification shall be required.
         (b)   The cost of recertification shall be borne by the employee.
         (c)   The city may delay restoration to employment until an employee
submits a required fitness-for-duty certification.
   (G)   Calculation of FMLA Leave.
      (1)   (a)   For purposes of calculating employee entitlement for a
subsequent FMLA leave, the “12-month period” is measured forward from the date
when the employee’s previous FMLA leave began. For example, under this method
an employee is entitled to 12 weeks of leave the first time FMLA leave is taken
(e.g., March 7,2016); the next 12-month period would begin the first time leave
is taken after completion of that 12-month period ending on (March 6, 2017).
         (b)   In situations where both a husband and wife work for the city
and FMLA leave is requested and approved to care for a newborn child or a child
newly placed for adoption or foster care, the employee(s) combined total leave
is limited to 12 weeks. Such leave must be taken within 12 months from the date
of birth or the date of placement.
         (c)   An employee shall use any earned paid leave (such as
compensatory time, sick leave, vacation leave, and personal days) for any part
of the 12-week period of such leave under the city’s FMLA policy. Any holiday
that occurs during an FMLA leave shall be paid. Employees may retain up to one
week vacation during FMLA.
         (d)   Accruals for benefit calculations, such as vacation, personal
leave, or holiday benefits, shall not be affected by taking FMLA leave.
      (2)   Intermittent Leave or Reduced Leave Schedule. FMLA leave
entitlement may be taken in no less than one-hour increments.
      (3)   Health Benefits. Any health plan, including self-insured plans,
provided by the city will be continued for the employee on FMLA leave on the
same terms that would have been provided if the employee had continued his or
her work during the period that he or she was on approved FMLA leave. City
employees are responsible for paying their share of the premium costs while on
FMLA leave. If an employee chooses not to return to work for reasons other than
a continuing serious health condition of the employee or the employee’s family
member, or a circumstance beyond the employee’s control, the city shall require
the employee to reimburse the employer the amount it paid for the employee’s
health insurance premium during the leave period.
   (H)   Employee Reinstatement.
      (1)   On return from FMLA leave, an employee is entitled to be returned
to the same position the employee held when leave commenced, or to an
equivalent position with equivalent benefits, pay, and other terms and
conditions of employment. An employee is entitled to such reinstatement even if
the employee has been replaced or his or her position has been restructured to
accommodate the employee’s absence.
      (2)   However, the city may temporarily transfer an employee to an
available alternative position with equivalent pay and benefits if the
alternative position would better accommodate situations of intermittent leave.
      (3)   If the employee fails to return to work, he or she shall repay the
city’s portion of the premium costs and any of the employee’s portions that
were not paid by the employee during the FMLA leave.
      (4)   The city shall consider an employee’s failure to report to work at
the end of the leave period as an employee resignation.
   (I)   While an employee is on FMLA leave for their own serious illness or
injury, he or she shall not be engaged in outside employment.
   (J)   Military Family Leave Entitlements.
      (1)   (a)   The National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2008 and 2010
(NDAA) amended the FMLA to allow eligible employees to take up to 12 weeks of
job-protected leave in the applicable 12-month period for any “qualifying
exigency” arising out of the covered active duty or call to covered active duty
status of a spouse, son, daughter, or parent.
         (b)   The NDAA also amended the FMLA to allow eligible employees to
take up to 26 weeks of job-protected leave in a “single 12-month period” to
care for a covered servicemember with a serious injury or illness. These types
of FMLA leave are known as the military family leave entitlements.
         (c)   This policy supplements the city’s “regular” FMLA policy and
provides notice of employee rights to such leave. Except as mentioned below, an
employee’s rights and obligations to military family leave are governed by the
city’s “regular” FMLA policy.
         (d)   Military family leave runs concurrent with other leave
entitlements provided under federal, state, and local law, such as Indiana
military family leave under IC 22-2-13.
      (2)   Employee Notice Requirements.
         (a)   Employees seeking to use military caregiver leave must provide
30 days advance notice of the need to take such leave for planned medical
treatment for a serious injury or illness of a covered servicemember. If leave
is foreseeable but 30 days advance notice is not practicable, the employee must
provide notice as soon as practicable - generally, either the same or next
business day.
         (b)   An employee must provide notice of the need for foreseeable
leave due to a qualifying exigency as soon as practicable.
         (c)   When the need for military family leave is not foreseeable, the
employee must provide notice to the city as soon as practicable under the facts
and circumstances of the particular case. Generally, it should be practicable
to provide notice for unforeseeable leave with the time prescribed by the
city’s usual and customary notice requirements. Please see division (D)(3)
“Requesting FMLA Leave” above.
      (3)   Entitlement.
         (a)   Eligible employees are entitled to 12 weeks of unpaid military
family leave for the following situation:
            1.   Any qualifying exigency arising out of the fact that the
employee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a covered military member on
active duty (or has been notified of an impending call or order to active duty)
in the Armed Forces.
         (b)   Eligible employees are entitled to 26 weeks of paid/unpaid
military family leave for the following situation:
            1.   To care for a covered servicemember with a serious injury or
illness if the employee is the spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin of
the servicemember.
      (4)   Covered Active Duty Defined. The term “COVERED ACTIVE DUTY” means,
in the case of a member of a regular component of the Armed Forces, duty during
the deployment of the member with the Armed Forces to a foreign country or
international waters; and in the case of a member of a reserve component of the
Armed Forces, duty during the deployment of the member with the Armed Forces to
a foreign country or international waters under a call or order to active duty
pursuant to applicable law.
      (5)   Covered Servicemember Defined. The term “COVERED SERVICEMEMBER”
means a member of the Armed Forces, including a member of the National Guard or
Reserves, who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy, is
otherwise in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the temporary disability
retired list, for a serious injury or illness, or condition that existed before
the servicemember’s active duty but was aggravated by service in the line of
duty on active duty; or a veteran who is undergoing medical treatment,
recuperation, or therapy, for a serious injury, illness, or condition that
existed before the servicemember’s active duty but manifested before or after
becoming a veteran, and who was a member of the Armed Forces, including a
member of the National Guard or Reserves, at any time during the period of five
years preceding the date on which the veteran undergoes such medical treatment,
recuperation, or therapy. The employee’s first date of leave must occur within
the five-year period; however, the employee may continue to take such leave
throughout the “single 12-month period” of leave even if the leave extends
beyond the five- year period.
      (6)   Qualifying Exigency Leave. Eligible employees may take up to a
total of 12 weeks of unpaid military family leave during the normal 12-month
period established by the city for FMLA leave for qualifying exigencies arising
out of the fact that the employee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent (the
“covered military member”) is on active duty, or has been notified of an
impending call or order to active duty, in support of a contingency operation.
         (a)   Qualifying exigency leave is available to a family member of a
military member in the National Guard or Reserves or a retired military member
of the Regular Armed Forces or Reserve; it does not extend to family members of
military members in the Regular Armed Forces.
         (b)   A call to active duty for purposes of leave taken because of a
qualifying exigency refers to a federal call to active duty. State calls to
active duty are not covered unless under order of the President of the United
States pursuant to applicable law in support of a contingency operation.
         (c)   Such leave may commence as soon as the military member receives
the call up notice. This type of leave will be counted toward the employee’s
12-week maximum of FMLA leave in a 12-month period.
         (d)   Qualifying exigencies include the following:
            1.   A.   Short-notice deployment: Issues arising from a covered
military member’s short notice deployment (i.e., deployment on seven or less
days of notice) for a period of seven days from the date of notification;
               B.   Military events and related activities: Events and
activities, such as official ceremonies, programs, or events sponsored by the
military or family support or assistance programs and informational briefings
sponsored or promoted by the military, military service organizations, or the
American Red Cross that are related to the active duty or call to active duty
status of a covered military member;
               C.   Childcare and related activities: Certain childcare and
related activities arising from the active duty or call to active duty status
of a covered military member, such as arranging for alternative childcare,
providing childcare on a non-routine, urgent, immediate need basis, enrolling
or transferring a child in a new school or day care facility, and attending
certain meetings at a school or a day care facility if they are necessary due
to circumstances arising from the active duty or call to active duty of the
covered military member;
               D.   Financial and legal arrangements: Making or updating
financial and legal arrangements to address a covered military member’s
absence;
               E.   Counseling: Attending counseling provided by someone other
than a health care provider for oneself, the covered military member, or the
child of the covered military member, the need for which arises from the active
duty or call to active duty status of the covered military member;
               F.   Rest and recuperation: Taking up to 15 days of leave to
spend time with a covered military member who is on short-term temporary, rest,
and recuperation leave during deployment;
               G.   Post-deployment activities: Attending to certain post-
deployment activities, including attending arrival ceremonies, reintegration
briefings and events, and other official ceremonies or programs sponsored by
the military for a period of 90 days following the termination of the covered
military member’s active duty status, and addressing issues arising from the
death of a covered military member; and
               H.   Additional activities: Any other event that the employee
and city agree is a qualifying exigency.
            2.   Certification.
               A.   The first time an employee requests leave because of a
qualifying exigency arising out of the active duty or call to active duty
status of a covered military member, the city shall require the employee to
provide a copy of the covered military member’s active duty orders or other
documentation issued by the military which indicates that the covered military
member is on active duty or call to active duty status in support of a
contingency operation, and the dates of the covered military member’s active
duty service. This information need only be provided to the city once. A copy
of new active duty orders or other documentation issued by the military shall
be provided to the city if the need for leave because of a qualifying exigency
arises out of a different active duty or call to active duty status of the same
or a different covered military member.
               B.   The city shall use the Department of Labor form WH-384
(Qualifying Exigency) to satisfy requirements under this division (J)(6)(d)2.
               C.   The employee must provide the requested and complete
certification to the city within 15 calendar days after the city’s request.
            3.   Verification. If an employee submits a complete and sufficient
certification to support his or her request for leave because of a qualifying
exigency, the city shall not request additional information from the employee.
However, if the qualifying exigency involves meeting with a third party, the
city shall contact the individual or entity with whom the employee is meeting
for purposes of verifying a meeting or appointment schedule and the nature of
the meeting between the employee and the specified individual or entity. The
employee’s permission is not required in order to verify meetings or
appointments with third parties, but no additional information may be requested
by the city. The city also shall contact the appropriate unit of the Department
of Defense to request verification that a covered military member is on active
duty or call to active duty status; no additional information may be requested
and the employee’s permission is not required.
      (7)   Military Caregiver Leave.
         (a)   Eligible employees who are a spouse, son, daughter, parent, or
next of kin of a covered servicemember with a serious injury or illness may
take up to a total of 26 weeks of unpaid military family leave during a “single
12-month period” to care for the servicemember.
         (b)   Eligible employees are entitled to military caregiver leave to
care for a current member of the Armed Forces, including a member of the
National Guard or Reserves, or a member of the Armed Forces, the National Guard
or Reserves who is on the temporary disability retired list, who has a serious
injury or illness incurred in the line of duty on active duty for which he or
she is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy; or otherwise in
outpatient status; or otherwise on the temporary disability retired list.
         (c)   Eligible employees may not take leave under this provision to
care for former members of the Armed Forces, former members of the National
Guard and Reserves, and members on the permanent disability retired list.
         (d)   This is the only type of FMLA leave that may extend an
employee’s leave entitlement beyond 12 weeks to a combined total of 26 weeks of
leave for any FMLA-qualifying reason during the “single 12-month period.”
However, only 12 of the 26 weeks total may be for a FMLA-qualifying reason
other than to care for a covered servicemember.
         (e)   The “single 12-month period” for leave to care for a covered
servicemember with a serious injury or illness begins on the first day the
employee takes leave for this reason and ends 12 months later, regardless of
the 12-month period established by the employer for other types of FMLA leave.
         (f)   A husband and wife who are eligible for FMLA leave and are
employed by the city shall be limited to a combined total of 26 weeks of leave
during the “single 12-month period” if the leave is taken for birth of the
employee’s son or daughter or to care for the child after birth, for placement
of a son or daughter with the employee for adoption or foster care, or to care
for the child after placement, to care for the employee’s parent with a serious
health condition, or to care for a covered servicemember with a serious injury
or illness.
            1.   Next of Kin Defined. The “NEXT OF KIN OF A COVERED
SERVICEMEMBER” is the nearest blood relative, other than the covered
servicemember’s spouse, parent, son, or daughter, in the following order of
priority: blood relatives who have been granted legal custody of the
servicemember by court decree or statutory provisions, brothers and sisters,
grandparents, aunts and uncles, and first cousins, unless the covered
servicemember has specifically designated in writing another blood relative as
his or her nearest blood relative for purposes of Military Caregiver leave
under the FMLA.
            2.   Designating Leave.
               A.   In the case of leave that qualifies as both leave to care
for a covered servicemember and leave to care for a family member with a
serious health condition during the “single 12- month period,” the city shall
designate such leave as leave to care for a covered servicemember in the first
instance. Leave that qualifies as both leave to care for a covered
servicemember and leave taken to care for a family member with a serious health
condition during the “single 12-month period” will not be designated and
counted as both leave to care for a covered servicemember and leave to care for
a family member with a serious health condition.
               B.   This division (J)(7)(f)2. also applies to leave taken for
other FMLA-qualifying reasons.
            3.   Certification.
               A.   When leave is taken to care for a covered servicemember
with a serious injury or illness, the city shall require an employee to obtain
a certification completed by an authorized health care provider of the covered
servicemember.
               B.   The city, if appropriate, shall seek authentication and/or
clarification of the certification as stated above in the city’s FMLA policy.
However, second and third opinions and recertifications, as outlined above in
the city’s FMLA policy, are not permitted for leave to care for a covered
servicemember.
               C.   The city shall require an employee to provide confirmation
of covered family relationship to the seriously injured or ill servicemember.
               D.   The city shall use the Department of Labor form WH-385
(Serious Injury or Illness of Covered Servicemember) to satisfy requirements
under this division (J)(7)(f).
               E.   The employee must provide the requested and complete
certification to the city within 15 calendar days after the city’s request.
            4.   ITOs and ITAs Certification.
               A.   The city, in place of the Department of Labor form WH-385,
shall accept “invitational travel orders” (“ITOs”) or “invitational travel
authorizations” (“ITAs”) issued to any family member to join an injured or ill
servicemember at his or her bedside as sufficient certification under this
policy. An ITO or ITA is sufficient certification for the duration of time
specified in the ITO or ITA.
               B.   During that time period, an eligible employee may take
leave to care for the covered servicemember in a continuous block of time or on
an intermittent basis. An eligible employee who provides an ITO or 1TA to
support his or her request for leave shall not be required to provide any
additional or separate certification that leave taken on an intermittent basis
during the period of time specified in the ITO or ITA is medically necessary.
An ITO or ITA is sufficient certification for an employee entitled to take FMLA
leave to care for a covered servicemember regardless of whether the employee is
named in the order or authorization.
               C.   If an employee will need leave to care for a covered
servicemember beyond the expiration date specified in an ITO or ITA, the city
shall request that the employee have an authorized health care provider
complete the Department of Labor form WH-385 (Serious Injury or Illness of
Covered Servicemember), as requisite certification for the remainder of the
employee’s necessary leave period.
               D.   The city, if appropriate, shall seek authentication and/or
clarification of the ITO or ITA as stated above in the city’s FMLA policy.
However, second and third opinions and recertifications, as outlined above in
the city’s FMLA policy, are not permitted during the period of time in which
leave is supported by an ITO or ITA.
               E.   The city shall require an employee to provide confirmation
of covered family relationship to the seriously injured or ill servicemember.
               F.   In all instances in which certification is requested, it is
the employee’s responsibility to provide the city with complete and sufficient
certification and failure to do so may result in the denial of FMLA leave.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.089 PAID ABSENT ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   All full-time employees in the Mayor’s Office, City Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, and Plan Department shall receive 14 personal absent allowance hours
per year, after completion of one full year of city employment. All full-time
employees in the remaining departments shall receive 16 personal absent
allowance hours per year, after completion of one full year of city employment.
Upon termination, the employee will not receive payment for any hours not used.
   (B)   All full-time employees shall have at least one year’s consecutive
service to be eligible to receive paid absent allowance hours. All such
employees shall be eligible for pay, provided authorization by the department
head after written requests of the employee.
   (C)   All paid absent allowance hours shall be subject to department head
approval. Employees may use paid absent allowance hours, provided there is no
interference with department operations.
   (D)   Personal absent allowance hours may not be used the day before or the
day after a holiday. Personal absent allowance leave shall not be taken in
increments of less than half the employee’s normal work shift.
   (E)   Employees shall use available paid absence leave time by the end of
the year in which time is earned; exceptions must be requested in writing by
the employee and approved by the Mayor on or before December 31 of the year in
which time is earned.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.090 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   The city provides paid sick leave benefits to all eligible employees
for periods of temporary absence due to illness or injuries. Regular full-time
employees are eligible for this benefit.
   (B)   After the first 90 calendar days of full-time employment, employees in
the Mayor’s Office, Clerk-Treasurer’s office, and Plan Department shall earn
sick days at the rate of seven hours per two months employment.
   (C)   After the first 90 calendar days of full-time employment, full-time
employees and employees in the Street Department, Water Department, and Sewer
Department shall earn sick leave at the rate of eight hours per two months
employment.
   (D)   After an employee earns his or her first seven or eight hours of sick
leave, ail future sick leave hours earned shall be credited on the first day of
the month in which it will be earned.
      Example: A Street Department employee who is hired on January 24, 2009
will begin earning paid sick leave on April 24, 2009 (90 days of full-time
employment.) Such employee will earn eight hours of sick leave on June 24,
2009. Future sick leave hours earned shall be credited on the first day of the
month in which it will be earned; in this example the second set of sick leave
hours would be credited on August 1st; the third set of sick hours credited on
October 1st, etc.
   (E)   Employees in the Mayor’s Office, Clerk-Treasurer’s office, and Plan
Department may carry over a maximum of 210 unused hours of sick leave from one
calendar year to the next.
   (F)   Employees in the Street, Sanitation, Water, Wastewater, and
Engineering departments may carry over a maximum of 240 unused hours of sick
leave from one calendar year to the next.
   (G)   The following conditions and stipulations shall apply to sick leave:
      (1)   To be eligible for sick leave, an employee must report his or her
absence to his or her supervisor at the commencement of business of the first
day for which leave is sought. To be eligible for payment for sick leave, an
employee may be required to submit to his or her supervisor a physician’s
certificate certifying that the employee has been ill or injured and unable to
perform his or her employment during the period of his or her absence.
      (2)   Employees who are unable to report to work due to illness or injury
should notify their direct supervisor before the scheduled start of their
workday if possible. The direct supervisor must also be contacted on each
additional day of absence. After three consecutive days off, or when employees
begin to accumulate a pattern of questionable absences, a physician’s
verification of illness may be requested.
      (3)   If an employee is absent for five or more consecutive days due to
illness or injury, a physician’s statement must be provided verifying the
disability and its beginning and expected ending dates. Such verification may
be requested for other sick leave absences as well and may be required as a
condition of paying sick leave benefits.
      (4)   Before returning to work from a sick leave absence of 30 calendar
days or more, an employee shall be required to provide a physician’s
verification that he or she may safely return to work.
      (5)   Sick leave benefits are intended solely to provide income
protection in the event of illness or injury, and may not be used for any other
absence.
      (6)   Sick leave shall be taken in increments of half or whole shifts,
except when used during FMLA which is one-hour increments. The Clerk-Treasurer
must be provided a weekly report of employee sick days used each year from each
city department.
      (7)   Sick leave benefits will be calculated based on the employee’s base
pay rate (an employee’s hourly rate of compensation is determined by dividing
the weekly rate of pay by his or her designated hours worked). Employees are
eligible for payment of unused earned sick days only at the time of retirement.
“RETIREMENT” is defined as an involuntary employment termination initiated by
the employee meeting state and/or city retirement criteria, such as age and
length of service. Such retirees shall receive compensation for up to 240 hours
of unused earned sick leave. Proper documentation must be available upon
employee retirement for an employee to be compensated for unused sick days.
      (8)   Employees who are terminated for disciplinary reasons shall not
receive compensation for unused earned sick leave.
      (9)   Employees who voluntarily resign may be eligible for payment of
unused earned sick days according to the following terms and conditions:
         (a)   After 15 years of continuous city employment, an employee is
entitled to be compensated for up to 120 hours of unused earned sick leave.
         (b)   After 20 years of continuous city employment, an employee is
entitled to be compensated for up to 240 hours of unused earned sick leave.
      (10)   This benefit is available provided the employee provides three
months’ notice of resignation; except for emergencies whereby the Board of
Works may waive this condition.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.091 SICK LEAVE BANK.
   (A)   A sick leave bank of sick days is established for full-time employees
who donate a minimum of 14 hours or 16 hours of unused sick leave from the
previous year provided the employee has earned at least 42 sick hours. The
annual enrollment period to join the sick leave bank shall be during the month
of January each year. Employees who have exhausted all of their earned sick
leave hours may donate their personal leave hours to meet the annual enrollment
requirement.
   (B)   The sick leave bank is intended to be available for those employees
who have exhausted all of their earned sick hours, vacation hours, comp time
and personal hours and are experiencing an extended illness or condition
covered by the Family and Medical Leave Policy.
   (C)   A Sick Leave Board, comprised of three members, is established by the
Mayor to consider employee requests for use of sick bank hours.
   (D)   Employees eligible to apply to the sick leave bank must have donated
the required sick days, and exhausted all available paid sick days, comp time,
vacation days, personal days and holidays. Such employee must be off work on
sick leave for at least 15 consecutive working days and make application to the
Board in person or by representative. The maximum number of hours that may be
granted per employee shall be 210 or 240 hours per application, and a maximum
of 420 or 480 hours per year.
   (E)   From time to time it may be necessary for the Board to replenish the
number of sick bank hours, and it shall have the authority to assess members
additional sick hour donations. At such time as the sick leave bank falls below
400 hours, an obligatory assessment of seven or eight sick leave hours shall be
made upon all current members of the bank who have sick or personal hours. For
employees without available sick or personal hours, such assessment will be
made during the following January if employed with the city or deducted from
the final paycheck upon termination.
   (F)   If an employee wishes to join the sick leave bank, he or she must
deposit the number of sick hours which would have normally been deposited had
the employee participated in the program from either the time of its inception
or the employee’s date of hire, whichever is less.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.092 MILITARY LEAVE.
   The city prohibits discrimination against employees on the basis of military
duty, affiliation, or status and requires reinstatement of an employee
following military leave to the same position or a position of like seniority,
status and pay, as dictated by federal and state laws. Generally, an employee
will be reinstated if he or she is still qualified to perform the job duties
and circumstances do not make it impossible, unreasonable, or against public
policy to place the employee back into the same or similar position.
   (A)   Annual Training.
      (1)   A military leave of absence will be granted to all city employees,
except those occupying temporary positions, to attend scheduled drills or
training or if called to active duty with the U.S. armed services.
      (2)   Employees who are members of a Reserve Unit or National Guard Unit
will be granted leave for the annual training period, and are entitled to
civilian (city) and military pay up to 15 days a year when on training duties
pursuant to proper orders issued by appropriate military authority.
      (3)   Required military leave will not be charged against an employee’s
vacation time.
      (4)   Subject to the terms, conditions and limitations of the applicable
plans for which the employee is otherwise eligible, the employer will continue
to provide health insurance benefits for the full term of the annual training
period.
      (5)   Employees on two-week active duty training assignments or inactive
duty training drills are required to return to work for the first regularly
scheduled shift after the end of training, allowing reasonable travel time.
   (B)   Active Duty/Enlistment.
      (1)   The Uniformed Services Employment and Re-employment Rights Act
(USERRA) of 1994 grants special considerations and rights to employees that are
either called to active military status or enlist in the armed forces. Active
duty military leave will be unpaid.
      (2)   USERRA requires employers to grant such employees reinstatement of
the position held at the time of departure for military service, or in some
cases to a position of equivalent or equal stature and pay provided the
employee is discharged from service honorably. The cumulative length of service
that causes an absence from a position may not exceed five years, except where
provided by law.
      (3)   USERRA also requires that returning eligible employees be granted
seniority and benefits at the same level as if the employee had not left
employment for service. Benefit time will continue to accrue while an employee
is on military leave. Additionally, service members are able (but are not
required) to use earned vacation or annual leave while performing military
duty.
      (4)   If an employee’s health plan coverage would terminate because of an
absence due to uniformed service, the person may elect at his or her own cost
to continue the health plan coverage for up to 18 months after the absence
begins, or the period of service, whichever is shorter.
      (5)   Upon returning from military leave of absence an employee will be
reinstated to a city position provided the employee is discharged from military
status under honorable conditions, and makes a request for reinstatement within
30 days after release from active duty, or one year after release from
hospitalization due to military accident. The employee must also be qualified
to perform the essential functions of the position for which he or she is being
reinstated, and shall be required to undergo a medical examination by medical
providers) paid for by the city.
      (6)   Employees on such leave must notify the city of the intent to
return to employment in accordance with all applicable state and federal laws.
   (C)   Indiana Military Family Leave.
      (1)   Eligible employees that are a parent, spouse, grandparent, or
sibling of a person who is ordered to active duty for a period exceeding 89
days may be allowed military family leave under qualifying circumstances.
      (2)   In order for an employee to be eligible for military family leave,
the employee must have worked for the city for the previous 12 months and
worked a minimum of 1,500 hours during that period.
      (3)   Eligible employees may take leave during either the 30 days before
active duty orders are in effect or during the period in which the person
ordered to active duty has their orders terminated. Military family leave may
not exceed a total of ten working days annually.
      (4)   Employees must notify their department head 30 days in advance of
the days they intend to take military family leave, unless the person ordered
to active duty receives deployment orders less than 30 days in advance. The
city may require verification of the military orders in order to approve
military family leave.
      (5)   Military family leave is unpaid and employees are responsible for
paying their own benefits while on such leave.
      (6)   An employee may choose to substitute any earned paid vacation
leave, or compensatory time available to the employee for any part of the ten-
day period of military family leave.
      (7)   Military family leave runs concurrent with other leave entitlements
provided under federal, state and local law, such as military family leave
under FMLA.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.093 LIMITED DUTY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to ensure that when employees return to
work following any illness or injury, including FMLA, that they are physically
and mentally rehabilitated so they can safely perform their regular job duties.
Employees who are temporarily unable to perform their regular duties because of
an illness or injury incurred on duty may be temporarily assigned “limited
duty” work by the city that is consistent with their medical restrictions.
   (B)   Before an employee shall return to full duty following an illness or
injury, the employee must be released from his or her medical provider to
perform the full range of essential job duties of his or her position. The
employee shall be required to have a fitness-for-duty examination by the doctor
specified by the city and submit a certification form to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The employee shall provide all medical certifications related to the
on duty illness or injury to the Clerk-Treasurer as requested. If the
examination indicates that the employee is released to perform the full range
of essential job duties, then the employee shall be directed to return to his
or her regular job. If the evaluation indicates that the employee shall not
return to full duty, but is able to perform limited duty, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall explore limited duty options.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.094 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   (A)   If an employee wishes to take time off due to the death of an
immediate family member, the employee should notify his or her supervisor
immediately. A maximum of five work days with pay for all city employees will
be allowed for a death in the immediate family, and such days shall be used in
conjunction with the date of death or funeral visitation. Immediate family
includes: spouse, natural father, natural mother, child, and stepchild.
   (B)   A maximum of three days with pay for all city employees will be
allowed for the death of current stepfather, current stepmother, brother,
current stepbrother, sister, current stepsister, current mother-in-law or
father-in-law, grandchildren, grandparents, and in-laws with a dependency
relationship with the employee; such day shall be used in conjunction with the
date of death or funeral visitation. At the discretion of the department head,
absence for other funerals will be considered as vacation leave or personal
leave or granted without pay.
   (C)   Bereavement leave pay will be calculated based on the employee’s
straight time pay rate (as of the date of the bereavement leave) times the
number of hours the employee would otherwise have worked on that day. (For
example: seven hours, eight hours, ten hours, twelve hours) For example, an
employee in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office would be granted seven hours of pay
for the bereavement leave; an employee in the Street Department would be
granted eight hours of pay.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.095 CIVIC DUTY.
   (A)   The city encourages employees to fulfill their civic responsibilities
by serving jury duty when required.
   (B)   Employees shall be paid the difference between his or her regular pay
and the payment he or she receives for the service if less than his or her
regular pay. Regular full-time employees qualify for paid jury duty leave.
   (C)   Employees must show the jury duty summons to their department head as
soon as possible so that the department head may make arrangements to
accommodate the employee’s absence. Of course, the employee is expected to
report for work whenever the court schedule permits. If the employee is
released from jury duty with more than half of his or her regularly scheduled
shift remaining, he or she is required to report to work within one hour after
being released by the court.
   (D)   Either the city or the employee may request an excuse from jury duty
if, in the employer’s judgment, the employee’s absence would create serious
operational difficulties.
   (E)   The employer will continue to provide all regular benefits for the
full term of the jury duty absence.
   (F)   Regular part-time and temporary employees shall receive no wages for
time spent on jury duty, but shall be entitled to retain any compensation
received for such service.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.096 WITNESS DUTY.
   Any employee witness duty required because of legal action involving the
city, resulting from employment by the city, will be compensated time. If an
employee is issued a subpoena to testify in court or provide a deposition
involving city business, this time will be excused and time away from work will
be paid. Any other witness duty for non-city court appearance, or depositions
will not be paid unless the employee uses available leave or compensatory time
for pay.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.097 LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY.
   (A)   Full-time employees may be granted, after one year of service, a leave
of absence without pay not to exceed 180 days. During such period, sick leave
and vacation leave shall not accrue, and such employee shall not receive
compensation for designated holidays. During such leave the employee’s health
insurance and PERF benefits shall continue at the city’s expense.
   (B)   Authorization for such leave shall be subject to approval by the City
Board of Works.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.098 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA).
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that qualified individuals with
disabilities not be excluded from participation in or benefit from the
services, programs or activities of the city. It is the policy of the city not
to discriminate against a qualified individual with a disability in: job
application procedures; the hiring, advancement or discharge of employees;
employee compensation; job training, and other terms, conditions and privileges
of employment. It is the intent of this city to comply with all applicable
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
   (B)   If a person is not able to perform the essential functions of a job,
even with reasonable accommodation, then the person is not qualified for the
position.
   (C)   The city will reasonably accommodate persons with a disability. Such
reasonable accommodation may include: making facilities readily accessible to
individuals with a disability, restructuring jobs, modifying work schedules,
modifying equipment, or other similar accommodations.
   (D)   Accommodations may not create an undue hardship for the city or other
employees.
   (E)   An individual who cannot be reasonably accommodated for a job, without
undue hardship, will not be selected for that position. A conditional offer of
employment form is available for use in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (F)   All employees are required to comply with safety standards. Applicants
who pose a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals in the
workplace, and whose threat cannot be eliminated by reasonable accommodation,
will not be hired. Current employees who pose a direct threat to the health or
safety of the other individuals in the workplace will be placed on appropriate
leave.
   (G)   Disabled individuals cannot pose a direct threat to the safety of
themselves or others. Generally, a “DIRECT THREAT” means a significant risk to
the health or safety of others that cannot be eliminated by reasonable
accommodation.
   (H)   Benefits provided to disabled individuals who are qualified to perform
the work are not different from the benefits provided to other employees.
   (I)   Members of the public, including individuals with disabilities and
groups representing individuals with disabilities, are encouraged to submit
suggestions to the City ADA Coordinator, Public Relations Director, on how the
city might better meet the needs of individuals with disabilities pursuant to
this policy.
   (J)   Employee requests for an accommodation under the city’s ADA shall be
submitted in writing on ADA forms (Reasonable Accommodation Request form)
available in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The city requires medical
certification to support a request of reasonable accommodation on the
organization’s medical review form available in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
It shall be the responsibility of the employee to submit such forms in a timely
manner.
   (K)   The city reserves the right to require a second medical opinion from
an independent medical provider. The city must pay for the second opinion. If
the two opinions conflict, the city may seek and pay for a third medical
opinion that will be final and binding on both the city and the employee.
   (L)   Based on the medical information provided, the city will evaluate
what, if any, reasonable accommodation may be extended to the employee. A
determination for granting or denying a reasonable accommodation will be
delayed until medical certifications are provided by the employee.
   (M)   Any individual who believes he or she has received treatment
inconsistent with the policies set forth above or any other requirement of the
“Americans With Disabilities Act” (ADA), can file a complaint within 90 days of
the date of the alleged discriminatory act or practice with the Clerk-
Treasurer, City ADA Coordinator, Greensburg, Indiana.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.099 WORKER’S COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The city provides a comprehensive worker’s compensation insurance
program at no cost to employees. This program covers any injury or illness
sustained in the course of employment that requires medical, surgical, or
hospital treatment.
   (B)   Subject to applicable legal requirements, worker’s compensation
insurance provides benefits after a short waiting period or, if the employee is
hospitalized, immediately. While on worker’s compensation disability, employee
benefits shall accrue.
   (C)   Any employee who sustains a work-related injury or illness should
inform his or her supervisor immediately and the Clerk-Treasurer’s office
within 24 hours. No matter how minor an on-the-job injury may appear, it is
important that it be reported immediately. This will enable an eligible
employee to qualify for coverage as quickly as possible.
   (D)   If the employee has a life threatening condition, he or she should
proceed directly to the nearest hospital or medical facility.
   (E)   If an employee received worker's compensation for such an injury, he
or she will receive the difference between his or her regular pay and his or
her worker’s compensation benefits as full compensation for his or her sick
leave. Such compensation shall not exceed six weeks in duration; if further
compensation is requested; such benefits would be subject to Board of Works
approval.
   (F)   Employees should contact the Clerk-Treasurer’s office to obtain
information and forms regarding filing worker’s compensation claims. Medical
certifications are required. Once completed, all such forms are to be filed
directly with the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, not with the insurance carrier.
   (G)   As specified by Indiana worker’s compensation statutes, when a
compensable injury renders an employee unable to work, compensation for lost
wages is paid starting on the eighth day. However, on the twenty-second day of
disability the employee will receive compensation for the first seven days.
   (H)   The first weekly installment of compensation is due 14 days after the
disability begins. Not later than 15 days from the date that the first
installment is due, the employer/carrier must tender to the employee an
agreement of compensation, along with compensation due.
   (I)   If however, the employer/carrier denies liability, a written notice of
denial must be mailed within 29 days after the employer’s knowledge of the
alleged injury. The employer may obtain an additional 30-day period if it
establishes that the delay is due to an inability to obtain the medical
information necessary to make a determination as to liability.
   (J)   Certain injuries are excluded from worker’s compensation coverage
(e.g., employee intoxication, self-inflicted injuries, failure to use safety
appliances, committing a violation of work rules, failing to obey a reasonable
written or printed safety rule, knowing failure to perform a statutory duty).
   (K)   Neither the city nor the insurance carrier will be liable for the
payment of worker’s compensation benefits or major illness/injury in-line-of-
duty leave pay for off-duty injuries or illnesses that occur during an
employee’s voluntary participation in any off-duty recreational, social or
athletic activity sponsored or not sponsored by the city.
   (L)   While an employee is on worker’s compensation leave, he or she shall
not be engaged in outside employment.
   (M)   Holiday pay will not be paid in addition to major illness/injury in-
line-of-duty leave pay.
   (N)   During worker’s compensation leave employees may be required to submit
periodic medical certifications on their serious health condition. Before
returning to work, the employee shall provide medical certification from a
health care provider verifying that he or she may safely return to work.
   (O)   Worker’s compensation leave is designated as Family and Medical Leave
Act (FMLA) leave beginning with the first day of leave. All such leave time
used counts against the employees 12-week FMLA entitlement.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.100 HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (A)   Regular full-time city employees shall be eligible for the medical
group insurance provided by the city. Employees holding the following positions
shall not be eligible for participation in the employer's health insurance
programs: City Council members, City Attorney, persons appointed to city boards
or Commissions.
   (B)   Specific details of eligible coverage are contained in the city’s
insurance plan that is available in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   Employees shall immediately notify the Clerk-Treasurer’s office of all
changes in personal status for the purposes of insurance coverage (i.e.,
changes in marriage status or number of dependents).
Full-time city employees may be eligible for continuance coverage of insurance
for a designated period of time after leaving city employment by paying the
full cost of the insurance through COBRA. Eligible employees must notify the
city within 30 days of leaving employment of their intent to continue benefit
coverage to remain eligible. Employees should contact the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office regarding eligibility for continuation of coverage.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.101 HIPAA.
   (A)   The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
(HIPAA) has four major administrative requirements for private and government
sponsored health plans: portability, nondiscrimination, fraud and abuse, and
administration simplification.
   (B)   The city is compliant with applicable HIPAA requirements and
standards; and has established guidelines regarding the privacy of individually
identifiable health information accordingly. The city has designated the Clerk-
Treasurer as the city’s “privacy official” who is responsible for developing
and implementing privacy policies and procedures; and is the contact person who
is responsible for receiving complaints regarding compliance.
   (C)   All city HIPAA inquiries shall be directed to the Clerk-Treasurer
located in City Hall.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.102 BENEFITS CONTINUATION (COBRA).
   (A)   The federal Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA)
gives employees and their qualified beneficiaries the opportunity to continue
health insurance coverage under the employer’s health plan when a “qualifying
event” would normally result in the loss of eligibility. Some common qualifying
events are resignation, termination of employment, or death of an employee; a
reduction in an employee’s hours or a leave of absence; an employee’s divorce
or legal separation; and a dependent child no longer meeting eligibility
requirements.
   (B)   Under COBRA, the employee or beneficiary pays the full cost of
coverage at the employer’s group rates plus an administration fee.
   (C)   The city provides each eligible employee with a written notice
describing rights granted under COBRA when the employee becomes eligible for
coverage under the employer’s health insurance plan. The notice contains
important information about the employee’s rights and obligations.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.103 GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE FOR RETIRED EMPLOYEES.
   The city shall provide for all eligible retired employees group health
insurance as required by statute. Specific details of eligible coverage are
available in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.104 GROUP TERM LIFE INSURANCE.
   (A)   The city provides term life insurance for regular full-time employees.
Employees holding the following positions shall not be eligible for
participation in the employer’s life insurance programs: City Council members,
City Attorney, persons appointed to city boards or commissions.
   (B)   Specific details of eligible coverage are contained in the city’s
insurance plan that is available in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.105 RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   All full-time city employees are required to participate in the
Indiana Public Retirement System and must join according to INPRS rules,
regulations, terms, and conditions set forth by the city. INPRS premiums cost
to employees are determined by statute and collected in payroll deduction.
   (B)   All full-time city employees are covered by INPRS, a retirement
program established and maintained by the State of Indiana. INPRS pays benefits
to covered workers or their dependents upon retirement, death, and in certain
cases, serious illness or injury. The city contributes a percentage to the
pension account. The amount the city contributes varies and is determined
actuarially annually. The employee’s contributions and accumulated interest
credits are refundable when an employee terminates employment prior to being
eligible for benefits. INPRS’s Employer Financed Pension requires ten years of
service to become vested, and is paid by the city based on an employee’s length
of employment, average salary, retirement option selected and age at
retirement.
   (C)   Questions concerning the program should be directed to: Clerk-
Treasurer’s office and/or the Indiana Public Retirement System.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.106 SOCIAL SECURITY/INDIANA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.
   The city matches employee withholding for FICA, and pays the full cost of
Indiana unemployment insurance.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
WORKING CONDITIONS
§ 36.115 APPLICABILITY.
   The policies contained in this chanter and throughout the Greensburg
personnel policies handbook apply to all city employees, except when in direct
conflict with special employment conditions set forth by various statutes
governing employment relationships.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.116 SAFETY.
   (A)   Establishment and maintenance of a safe work environment is the shared
responsibility of the city and employees from all levels of the organization.
The city will take all reasonable steps to assure a safe environment and
compliance with federal, state, and local safety regulations. All employees
should report for work in an alert, fit condition and able to effectively
perform assigned position duties.
   (B)   Employees are expected to obey safety rules and to exercise caution in
all their work activities. They are asked to immediately report any unsafe
conditions to their supervisor. Employees need not fear retaliation for
reporting safety hazards. Not only supervisors, but employees at all levels of
the organization are expected to correct unsafe conditions as promptly as
possible. Employees who engage in unsafe work habits, or violate safety
standards may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
All accidents that result in injury must be reported through their appropriate
department head to the Mayor within 24 hours regardless of how insignificant
the injury may appear. Such reports are necessary to comply with laws and
initiate insurance and worker’s compensation procedures.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.117 LACTATION SUPPORT.
   (A)   The city provides reasonable paid breaks for employees to express
breast milk for their infant child up to one year after the child’s birth each
time such employee has need to express the milk.
   (B)   The city shall provide a room or other location, other than a
bathroom, in close proximity to the work area, where employees can express
their breast milk in privacy during any period away from their assigned duties.
   (C)   The city shall make reasonable efforts to provide a refrigerator or
other cold storage space for storing breast milk; or allow employees to store
their breast milk in their own portable storage device until the end of their
workday.
   (D)   Except in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence, or bad faith,
the city is not liable for any harm caused by or arising from either of the
following that occur on the city’s premises:
      (1)   The expressing of employees’ breast milk; or
      (2)   The storage of expressed milk.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.118 USE OF TELEPHONES AND CITY MAIL.
   (A)   Personal telephone calls should be limited in frequency and duration.
Personal use of telephones and fax machines for long distance and toll calls is
not permitted, except for emergencies.
   (B)   For any emergency personal use, employees shall reimburse the city for
all long-distance and/or toll charges.
   (C)   To ensure effective telephone communications, employees should always
use the approved greeting and speak in a courteous and professional manner.
   (D)   The mail system is reserved for business purposes only. Employees
should refrain from sending or receiving personal mail at the work place.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.119 USE OF PERSONAL CELLULAR PHONES AND PAGERS.
   (A)   (1)   Personal cellular/mobile phones and pagers are disruptive in the
workplace. The use of personal cellular/mobile phones and/or pagers during
office hours is prohibited except for emergency purposes, such as injury or
illness involving transport to hospital. Employees may use personal cellular/
mobile phones during break periods, including meal breaks in locations that do
not pose a disruption to others. Employees using cellular/mobile phones or
pagers during office hours will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
      (2)   Any cellular/mobile phones issued by the city to an employee for
business purposes should be turned off during meetings and training courses,
except in circumstances where it is absolutely necessary to take an urgent
business phone call. In these circumstances, it is courteous to alert others in
attendance to the fact that such a call is expected.
      (3)   Employees shall reimburse the city for charges resulting from any
personal use of city-issued cell phones.
   (B)   Use of Cellular/Mobile Phones and Electronic Devices While Driving.
      (1)   This policy applies to all city employees. The use of cellular/
mobile phones and electronic devices while driving may present a hazard to the
driver, other employees, and the general public.
      (2)   This policy is meant to ensure the safe operation of city vehicles
and equipment, and the safe operation of private vehicles while an employee is
on work time conducting city business. This policy applies to all uses of
cellular/mobile phones and communication devices, including but not limited to
computers, text messaging, e-mail, electronic calendars, multi-media devices,
and printers.
      (3)   Employees shall adhere to all federal, state, and local rules and
regulations regarding the use of cellular/mobile phones and electronic devices
while driving. Accordingly, employees shall not use cellular/mobile phones if
such conduct is prohibited by law, regulation, or other ordinance.
      (4)   Employees should not use hand held cellular/mobile phones for
business purposes while driving. Should an employee need to make or receive a
business call while driving, he or she should locate a lawfully designated area
to park and make or receive the call.
      (5)   Employees may use hands-free cellular/mobile phones to make or
receive business calls. Such calls should be kept short, and should the
circumstances warrant (such as heavy traffic or inclement weather), the
employee should locate a lawfully designated area to park to continue the call.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.120 USE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES.
   Computers, computer files, the e-mail system, and software are city
property, intended for business use. To retain privileges of network access,
each user of city information technologies is expected to meet certain
responsibilities and honor certain limitations. Additional responsibilities may
be associated with specific networks. Any network traffic exiting the city is
subject not only to provisions of this policy, but also to the acceptable use
policies of any network through which or into which it flows. Employees should
immediately report any violation of this policy to their department head and
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. Questions concerning these policies should be
directed to the employee’s department head and/or the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (A)   System Security.
      (1)   Employees are responsible for the use of their accounts and
security of their passwords. As such, an employee may not give anyone else
access to his or her account, or use a city computer account assigned to
another user. A user must not attempt to obtain a password for another
employee’s computer account. If an employee suspects someone knows his or her
password, the employee should contact the Clerk-Treasurer’s office immediately.
      (2)   Employees shall not use the network resources of the city to gain
or attempt to gain unauthorized access to remote computers, networks, or
systems, nor shall they attempt to circumvent data protection schemes or
exploit security loopholes. Employees may not place on any city-owned computer
system any type of information or software that gives unauthorized access to
another computer account or system.
      (3)   Violations of this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to
and including termination.
   (C)   Software Licenses.
      (1)   The city purchases and licenses the use of various computer
software for business purposes and does not own the copyright to the software
or its related documentation. Unless authorized by the software developer, the
city does not have the right to reproduce such software for use on more than
one computer.
      (2)   Employees may only use software on multiple machines according to
software license agreements. The city prohibits the illegal duplication of
software and its related documentation. No licensed or unlicensed software may
be installed on city computers that have not been authorized by the city.
      (3)   Employees should immediately report violations of this policy to
their department head. City employees who make, acquire, or use unauthorized
copies of computer software are violating federal copyright law and are subject
to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
   (D)   Data Backup. Users of personal computers are responsible for
protecting their work by making regular backup copies of their work files and
storing the copies in a safe location. They should set the frequency of backup
based on their ability to recreate information added since the last backup.
   (E)   Prohibited Uses of Information Technologies Resources.
      (1)   Employees shall not deliberately perform acts which are wasteful of
computing resources or which unfairly monopolize resources to the exclusion of
others. Conduct that presents a risk to the operating integrity of the
information technologies systems is strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Employees shall not deliberately perform acts that will impair the
operation of computing equipment, peripherals, other devices, or networks. This
includes, but is not limited to, tampering with components of a local area
network (LAN) or the highspeed backbone network, otherwise blocking
communication lines, or interfering with the operational readiness of a
computer.
      (3)   Employees shall not install on any of the computer systems of the
city, or give to another user, a program that could result in the eventual
damage to a file or computer system and/or the reproduction of itself.
      (4)   This includes, but is not limited to, the classes of programs known
as computer viruses, such as “Trojan horses” and “worms.”
      (5)   Violations of this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to
and including termination.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.121 USE OF INTERNET AND ELECTRONIC MAIL (E-MAIL).
   (A)   (1)   Employees may be provided access to the internet and e-mail to
assist them in the performance of their duties and such access is intended for
business use. Violations of this policy may result in disciplinary action, up
to and including termination. Violations of federal, state, or local laws
resulting from the use of city information technologies will result in referral
to the appropriate legal authorities. To ensure compliance with this policy,
computer and e-mail use may be monitored.
      (2)   The city strives to maintain a workplace that is free of harassment
and is sensitive to the diversity of its employees. Therefore, the city
prohibits the use of information technologies such as computers, e-mail, and
the internet, in ways that are disruptive, offensive to others, or harmful to
morale. For example, the display or transmission of sexually-explicit images,
messages, and cartoons is not allowed. Other such misuse includes, but is not
limited to, ethnic slurs, racial comments, jokes, or anything that may be
construed as harassment or showing disrespect to others.
      (3)   Employees should immediately report any violation of this policy to
their department head, the Mayor, City Attorney, or Board of Works. Questions
concerning these policies should be directed to the employee’s department head
and/or the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (B)   Internet Access.
      (1)   Access to the internet is provided for business related purposes.
Personal use of such equipment and software shall be limited in frequency and
duration and shall not interfere with an employee’s assigned duties.
      (2)   The internet is a worldwide network of computers containing
millions of pages of information and many diverse points of view. Due to its
global nature, users of the internet may encounter material that is
inappropriate, offensive, and in some instances, illegal. The city cannot
control the availability of this information or completely restrict access to
it.
      (3)   Employees may only access the internet through an approved internet
firewall. Accessing the internet directly, by modem or other connection device,
is strictly prohibited unless such access is approved and installed by system
managers designated by the city.
      (4)   The city will not be responsible for any damages, direct or
indirect, arising out of the use of its internet resources. City employees who
violate this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
termination.
   (C)   Downloading From the Internet.
      (1)   All material downloaded from the internet or from computers or
networks that do not belong to the city must be scanned for viruses and other
destructive programs before being placed onto the computer system. All
employees will be expected to follow the instructions from their department
head and/or the Clerk-Treasurer’s office for the proper scanning process. Any
questions should be referred to the department head prior to being placed on
the computer system or being used.
      (2)   Employees are responsible for the material they review and download
on the internet. Violations of this policy are subject to disciplinary action,
up to and including termination.
   (D)   Electronic Mail (E-Mail).
      (1)   Employees should exercise the same care in drafting e-mail,
communicating in chat groups and blogs, and posting items to news groups as
they would for any other written communication. The city e-mail system is
subject to public records laws and certain e-mails to and from city employees
may be deemed public records.
      (2)   The e-mail system may be monitored when the city deems it necessary
to ensure its legitimate business interest in the proper utilization of its
property and to ensure that this policy is being followed.
      (3)   Violations of this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to
and including termination.
   (E)   Prohibited Uses of the Internet.
      (1)   (a)   Sending, receiving, displaying, printing, or otherwise
disseminating material that is fraudulent, harassing, illegal, embarrassing,
sexually explicit, obscene, intimidating, or defamatory is prohibited.
Employees encountering such material should report it to their department head
immediately. Employees are responsible for the material they review and
download on the internet.
         (b)   Employees may not use city internet or e-mail resources for
commercial or personal advertisements, solicitations, promotions, viruses,
political material, or any other unauthorized personal use. City e-mail
resources may not be used to forward chain letters. Employees may not
disseminate city property or confidential information via the internet.
         (c)   Due to export restrictions, programs or files containing
encryption technology are not to be placed on the internet or transmitted in
any way outside the United States without prior written authorization from the
city. Employees must comply with all software licenses, copyrights, and all
other federal, state, and local laws governing intellectual property and online
activity.
         (d)   The city maintains the right to monitor any and all aspects of
its computer system, including, but not limited to, monitoring sites employees
visit on the internet, monitoring chat and news groups and blogs, reviewing
material downloaded or uploaded by employees, and reviewing e-mail sent and
received by employees. Employees do not retain any right to privacy in any
documents, messages, or images they create, store, send, or receive on the
computer or the internet under the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and
any other federal, state, or local law regarding e-mail and internet use.
         (e)   Violations of this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up
to and including termination.
      (2)   Any message or file created, stored, and/or sent using the city’s
computer or communications equipment is city property. Employees should have no
expectation of privacy in any message stored, received, or sent using city
equipment.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.122 SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY.
   Social media can take many different forms, including internet forums, blogs
and micro-blogs, online profiles, wikis, podcasts, pictures and video, instant
messaging, music-sharing, and voice over IP to name just a few. Examples of
social media applications are LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook, MySpace, YouTube,
Wikipedia, Yelp, Flickr, Second Life, Yahoo groups, Wordpress, Zoominfo.
   (A)   Guidelines.
      (1)   Ultimately employees are solely responsible for what they post
online. Before creating online content, consider some of the risks and rewards
that are involved. Keep in mind that any of your conduct that adversely affects
your job performance, the performance of fellow employees, or otherwise
adversely affects the public, and people who work on behalf of the city, or the
city’s legitimate business interest may result in disciplinary action up to and
including termination.
      (2)   Discussion debate and sharing one’s opinion occur in many forms and
forums including online conversations. “SOCIAL MEDIA” is defined as media
designed to be disseminated through social interaction, created using highly
accessible and scalable publishing techniques.
      (3)   Given the growing popularity of online media, the city has
developed a series of guidelines to assist its employees when engaging in such
forums and discussions. The guidelines are intended to assist employees both
when participating personally as well as when acting on behalf of the city.
   (B)   Know and Follow City Policies and Work Rules.
      (1)   Carefully read these policies in this personnel policies handbook,
the City Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, Productive Work Environment
Policy, Requests For Information Policy, Use of Information Technologies
Policy, Sexual Harassment Policy, Business Ethics and Conflict of Interest
Policy, Solicitation and Distribution Policy, Political Activity Policy,
Workplace Violence Policy, and Confidentiality Policy.
      (2)   Ensure that your postings are consistent with these policies,
inappropriate postings that may include discriminatory remarks, harassment, and
threats of violence or similar inappropriate or unlawful conduct will not be
tolerated and may subject you to disciplinary action, up to, and including
termination.
   (C)   Be Respectful.
      (1)   Always be fair and courteous to fellow employees, vendors, and the
public on behalf of the city. Also, keep in mind that you are more likely to
resolve work-related complaints by speaking directly with your co-workers or
the public rather than posting complaints to a social media outlet.
      (2)   However, if you do post complaints or criticism, avoid using
statements, photographs, video or audio that reasonably could be viewed as
malicious, obscene, and threatening or intimidating, that disparage co-workers,
vendors, or the public, or that might constitute harassment or bullying.
Examples of such conduct include offensive posts meant to intentionally harm
someone’s reputation or posts that could contribute to a hostile work
environment on the basis of race, sex, disability, religion or any other status
protected by law or city policy.
   (D)   Be Honest and Accurate. Make sure you are honest and accurate when
posting information and news, and if you make a mistake, correct it quickly. Be
open about any previous posts you have altered. Remember that the internet
archives almost everything; therefore, even deleted postings can be searched.
Never post any information or rumors that you know to be false about the city,
fellow co-workers, vendors, or the public.
   (E)   Restrictions.
      (1)   Do not post confidential or propriety information about the city,
co-workers, vendors, or the public. Never violate federal law such as HIPAA
(Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act). Employees who share
confidential information are subject to disciplinary action, up to, and
including termination.
      (2)   Do not use the city logos or any other images or iconography on
personal social media sites. Do not use the city’s name to promote a product,
cause, or political party or candidate.
      (3)   Do not discuss your job responsibilities for the city on the
internet. Do not state or imply that you speak for the city, for a city office
or department, or for city officials. Be aware of your association with the
city when using social networks, and do not identify yourself as a city
employee.
      (4)   If you publish to a blog or some other form of social media, make
it clear that whatever you say is your view or opinion by stating: “these are
my personal views and opinions and not necessarily the views and opinions of
your employer.”
      (5)   Photographs posted on social media sites easily can be appropriated
by others. Do not post pictures of city department events, city employees, or
citizens visiting city offices or departments.
      (6)   Do not post obscenities, slurs, or personal attacks that could
slander or libel you or the city which could result in civil or criminal
penalties.
      (7)   Do not infringe on copyrights or trademarks.
   (F)   Respect Time and Property. The city’s computers and time on the job
are reserved for work-related business. Employees may use personal cellular/
mobile phones during break periods, including meal breaks in locations that do
not pose a disruption to others.
   (G)   Think Twice Before Posting. Privacy does not exist in the world of
social media. Consider what could happen if a post becomes widely known. Search
engines can turn up posts years after they are created and comments can be
forwarded or copied. Exercise sound judgment and common sense, and if there is
any doubt, do not post it.
   (H)   Know That the Internet is Permanent. Once information is published
online, it is essentially part of a permanent record, even if that information
is removed/deleted later, or an attempt is made to make it anonymous. If a
complete thought, along with its context, cannot be squeezed into a character
restricted space (such as Twitter), provide a link to an online space where the
message can be expressed completely and accurately.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.123 USE OF EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   City equipment and vehicles essential in accomplishing job duties are
expensive and may be difficult to replace. When using property, including city
telephones, employees are expected to exercise care, perform required
maintenance, and follow all operating instructions, safety standards, and
guidelines.
   (B)   Please notify the supervisor if any equipment, machines, tools, or
vehicles appear to be damaged, defective, or in need of repair. Prompt
reporting of damages, defects, and the need for repairs could prevent
deterioration of equipment and possible injury to employees or others. The
supervisor can answer any questions about an employee’s responsibility for
maintenance and care of equipment or vehicles used on the job. Employees
operating city vehicles shall maintain the ability to legally operate assigned
vehicles.
   (C)   Employees operating city vehicles shall maintain the ability to
legally operate assigned vehicles. Employees who operate city vehicles are
required to notify their department head in the event that their driver’s
license is suspended or revoked. An employee’s failure to notify his or her
department head of a driver’s license suspension or revocation is subject to
disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
   (D)   All employees who use city or their private vehicles for city business
shall have on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office a copy of a valid driver’s
license, and proof of liability insurance coverage for their private vehicles.
Failure to comply with this policy is subject to disciplinary action up to and
including discharge.
   (E)   Each occupant of a city or personal vehicle while on city business
must wear appropriate seat belts. Each employee is personally responsible for
any fines incurred as a result of driving or parking violations. In addition,
no employee is permitted, under any circumstances, to operate a city vehicle or
personal vehicle for city business when physical or mental impairment causes
the employee to be unable to drive safely. This prohibition includes, but is
not limited to, circumstances in which the employee is temporarily unable to
operate a vehicle safely or legally because of illness, medication, or
intoxication.
   (F)   Except for official city business, or as provided in any special
policies or procedures that supersede this policy, city owned vehicles shall
not be driven out of Decatur County unless authorized by the Mayor.
   (G)   The improper, careless, negligent, destructive, or unsafe use or
operation of equipment or vehicles, as well as excessive or avoidable traffic
and parking violations, can result in disciplinary action, including discharge.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.124 TAKE HOME VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Internal Revenue Code (IRC) requires the taxable value for the use
of employer provided vehicles and city issued cell phones be reported as
additional compensation to employees. The employer and employee must timely
report personal use as a wage. Such reports are processed by the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office. Public safety vehicles are considered non-personal use
vehicles. Public safety employees are required to use the vehicle for commuting
and personal use is incidental to use for law-enforcement purposes.
   (B)   Personal use of city vehicles, other than commuting, for travel
outside of Decatur County is prohibited (e.g., vacation use).
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.125 PERSONAL USE OF ORGANIZATION FACILITIES.
   To minimize unnecessary expenses, prevent the loss of valuable work time,
and prevent lowered morale of cooperative employees, personal use of city
facilities, vehicles and equipment is prohibited. This policy applies to all
employees and restricts the personal use of organization facilities, including
bulletin boards, vehicles and equipment, computers, and fax machines. Requests
for use of city facilities for events and community services must be approved
by the Mayor in advance.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.126 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Drug and alcohol use is highly detrimental to the safety and
productivity of employees in the work place.
   (B)   No employee may be under the influence of any illegal drug or alcohol
while in the work place, while on duty, or while operating a vehicle or
equipment owned or leased by the city.
   (C)   In accordance with The Drug Free Work place Act of 1988, and the State
of Indiana Drug-Free Workplace Executive Order No. 90-5 of 1990 the city must
maintain a drug free work place.
   (D)   Failure to comply with this law could jeopardize government funds this
organization receives. The unlawful manufacture, possession, distribution,
transfer, purchase, sale, use, or being under the influence of alcoholic
beverages or illegal drugs while on the employer’s property, while attending
business-related activities, while on duty, or while operating a vehicle or
machine leased or owned by the city is strictly prohibited and will result in
termination of employment. When appropriate, the city may refer the employee to
approved counseling or rehabilitation programs.
   (E)   While on official business or when an employee may be deemed a
representative of the city, he or she must comply with this policy as a
condition of employment. Should an employee be convicted of a drug-related
crime that occurred in the work place, he or she must notify the city within 24
hours of the conviction.
   (F)   The city is required to notify the appropriate government agency
within ten days of the conviction. Appropriate personnel action, including
possible discipline and/or participation in a drug abuse assistance or
rehabilitation program, may result after notice of the conviction is received.
   (G)   Determinations associated with assisting employees who are at risk of
health or performance deterioration will be made on a case-by-case basis.
Employees may use physician prescribed medications, provided that the use of
such drugs do not adversely affect job performance or the safety of the
employee or other individuals in the work place.
   (H)   Employees may keep prescription drugs and over-the-counter medications
on city premises when ordered by a medical physician by prescription; or on an
as-needed basis for over-the-counter medications. Employees holding safety
sensitive positions shall notify supervisor of such drugs and prescriptions.
   (I)   The city recognizes that employees may wish to seek professional
assistance in overcoming drug or alcohol problems.
   (J)   Please contact your supervisor for more information about the benefits
potentially available under the employee medical benefit plans and any possible
referral sources.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.127 SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY.
   The Greensburg personnel policies handbook adopted July 1, 1996 was amended
on March 2, 1998 by Resolution 1998-3 to include the following substance abuse
policy.
   (A)   Purpose and Scope of Policy.
      (1)   The City of Greensburg Substance Abuse Policy prohibits a city
employee from using, being under the influence of, or possessing alcohol during
working hours and at all times while in city vehicles or conducting city
business. Using, being under the influence of, or possessing illegal or non-
prescribed controlled substances are prohibited at all times during the term of
employment for city employees. To ensure that the city is a safe and healthy
place to work, a drug and alcohol testing program has been developed:
         (a)   To help detect the use of illegal substances and misuse of
alcohol;
         (b)   To outline disciplinary procedures for those who fail to comply
with the substance abuse policy.
      (2)   (a)   The United States Department of Transportation (DOT) mandates
drug and alcohol testing for employees whose job duties require a commercial
driver’s license (CDL).
         (B)   The city will also test applicants who have been offered
employment, those employees who hold positions that impact public safety or the
safety of co-workers (safety impact positions) and/or any employee who may be
required to perform a “safety sensitive function.” All city employees will be
subject to testing on the basis of reasonable suspicion or after accidents
which occur within the scope of this policy.
         (C)   As a condition of employment all city employees are required to
agree in writing to be tested for the use of drugs and/or alcohol pursuant to
this policy.
   (B)   Definition of Terms. As used in this policy:
      (1)   “ACCIDENT” means an occurrence which intentionally or
unintentionally results in bodily injury.
      (2)   “DRIVER” means an employee, whether full-time, part-time or
seasonally, who, at any lime, operates a city owned motor vehicle, or who
operates a privately owned vehicle, in the course of city business.
      (3)   “DRUG” means an illegal controlled substance such as marijuana or
cocaine and prescribed controlled substances except when used by an employee
for whom the controlled substance was prescribed according to the direction of
a person authorized by law to prescribe that controlled substance.
      (4)   “DRUG AND ALCOHOL TEST” means a test of breath, blood, urine, other
bodily fluid or physical performance characteristics to determine if the
employee tested has used alcohol and/or controlled substances during working
hours, on city property, or while representing the city, in any capacity.
      (5)   “DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING ADMINISTRATOR (DATA)” means a city
employee appointed by the Mayor to administer all aspects of the city’s drug
and alcohol testing program and this policy.
      (6)   “EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP)” means counseling and referral
services made available to assist city employees and their families in
responding to personal problems, including alcohol and drug abuse problems,
that actually or potentially affect job performance.
      (7)   “THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATOR (TPA)” means a service agent that
provides or coordinates drug and/or alcohol testing for the employer. The “TPA”
is responsible for administering testing and interpreting and evaluating
laboratory results.
      (8)   “POSITIVE BLOOD ALCOHOL TEST” means a blood alcohol concentration
of 0.02% by weight or greater.
      (9)   “POSSESSING” means having something on the person, in immediate
possession or in a place under substantially exclusive control.
      (10)   “RANDOM SELECTION” means a scientifically valid method in which
all employees in the random selection pool have an equal chance of being drawn
in every selection.
      (11)   “REASONABLE SUSPICION” means a belief based upon circumstance
which when taken together in context in which they occur, make a specific
employee more likely than an employee selected at random to have violated the
city’s resolution on alcohol and drug use. Information provided by other
persons may be considered by a supervisor as a part of the supervisor’s
reasonable suspicion where the supervisor has reason to believe the person
offering the information is credible.
      (12)   “SAFETY-SENSITIVE FUNCTION” means any of the following that are
performed or required to be performed while on the job:
         (a)   Driving;
         (b)   Time spent waiting to be dispatched to perform another activity
described in this division (B);
         (c)   Operating, inspecting, servicing, or repairing equipment;
         (d)   Being in or on commercial motor vehicle;
         (e)   Loading or unloading, including supervising or assisting in
loading or unloading, attending a vehicle being loaded or unloaded, remaining
readiness to operate the vehicle, or giving or receiving receipts for the
shipment being loaded or unloaded;
         (f) Securing the vehicle and taking all of the precautionary measures
required by DOT regulations following an accident; or measures required by DOT
regulations following an accident;
         (g)   Repairing, obtaining assistance, or attending a disabled
vehicle; or
         (h)   Construction, inspection, or observation on city projects.
      (13)   “SAFETY IMPACT POSITIONS” means a position, other than driver, in
which a city employee may have a discernible effect on public safety or on the
safety of co-workers.
      (14)   “SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROFESSIONAL” means a person trained to provide
assistance in the identification and treatment of alcohol and/or drug abuse.
      (15)   “UNDER THE INFLUENCE” means exhibiting signs or symptoms of the
use of alcohol or drugs.
   (C)   Prohibited Activities.
      (1)   The following conduct is strictly prohibited during work hours, on
city property, or in a city vehicle at any time:
         (a)   Using, being under the influence of, or possessing illegal drugs
or alcohol; (exceptions: police officers, medics and EMTs
when possessing is due to the performance of such duties);
         (b)   Using or being under the influence of legal drugs whose use can
adversely affect the ability of the covered employee to perform his or her job
safely, without disclosing such to a supervisor prior to being detected;
         (c)   Selling, buying, soliciting to buy or sell, transporting, or
possessing illegal drug; (exceptions: police officers, medics and EMTs when
transporting or possessing illegal drugs is due to the performance of such
duties);
         (d)   Testing positive for the use of alcohol;
         (e)   Testing positive for the use of illegal drugs;
         (f)   Refusing to be tested for drugs and alcohol pursuant to this
section;
         (g)   Failing to submit to a drug and/or alcohol test pursuant to this
section;
         (h)   Failing to stay in contact with the city’s third party
administrator (TPA) while awaiting the results of a test given pursuant to this
section;
         (i)   Violating any applicable federal, state, or local requirements
governing the use of drugs or alcohol.
      (2)   An off-duty employee who is called in to work outside regular
working hours, who has consumed alcohol within eight hours prior to reporting
for work, and is unaware or unsure of his or her blood alcohol level shall
resolve any doubt by informing their supervisor they are at this time unfit to
report to work.
      (3)   The legal use of CBD oils is permitted, but employees assume all
risks associated with such use, and shall be subject to disciplinary action, up
to and including termination for testing positive or refusal to submit to drug
testing.
      (4)   Compliance with each standard contained in this division (C) is a
condition of employment for all city employees. An employee who violates this
division (C) will be subject to disciplinary action as outlined in division (G)
of this section.
   (D)   Tests Required.
      (1)   The city will test a city employee/applicant in the following
circumstances:
         (a)   After a conditional offer of employment but before an applicant
is hired for any position in city government;
         (b)   When a supervisor has reasonable suspicion that the employee is
under the influence of drugs or alcohol;
         (c)   Following certain on the job accidents and accidents on city
property during work hours, or involving a city vehicle or equipment (as
specified in division (D)(3) below);
         (d)   On a random basis.
      (2)   Pre-Employment Testing.
         (a)   A test for the use of illegal drugs is required after a
conditional offer of employment but before an applicant for a position in city
government will be hired. A test is also required before an employee, not in a
safety impact position, is transferred to a safety impact position. Applicants
and current employees who are applying for a safety impact position will
collectively referred to as “applicant.”
         (b)   Part-time or temporary/seasonal employees with a break in
service of six months or longer, shall be subject to drug testing prior to
being re-hired and/or reporting back to work.
         (c)   Applicants will be subject to drug testing only and will not be
tested for alcohol.
         (d)   Prior to taking a pre-employment drug test, the applicant will
be notified to report for the drug test and given instructions in the
collection procedures. The applicant will also be asked to agree in writing to
be tested for drugs.
         (e)   All offers by the city to an applicant, or to transfer an
employee to a safety impact position are conditioned upon the applicant or
employee:
            1.   Agreeing in writing to be tested for drugs;
            2.   Taking a drug test as directed by the city and obtaining a
negative result;
            3.   Executing the city’s authorization form by which the city
obtains past drug and alcohol test results for CDL holders;
            4.   Complying with any other conditions or requirements consistent
with city policy, the city advises the applicant at the time of the offer of
employment.
         (f)   An applicant who refuses or fails to agree in writing to be
tested in accordance with this policy, who refuses or fails to execute the
city’s authorization to obtain past drug or alcohol test results from prior
employers, who refuses or fails to submit to a pre-employment drug test as
directed, whose test result is positive, or who obstructs the testing process
will not be hired.
      (3)   Post-Accident Testing.
         (a)   An employee must submit to post-accident drug and alcohol tests
as soon as possible (within two hours) after an accident as described in
division (D)(3)(b). Where the employee receives medical treatment or is
hospitalized, the employee will authorize those persons providing treatment to
collect a blood sample for testing at the city’s expense.
         (b)   An employee must submit to a post-accident test as soon as
possible after an accident in a city vehicle, on city property or during work
hours if the accident results in death or serious bodily injury of a human
being.
         (c)   If an employee is directed by a law enforcement officer to
submit to a drug and/or alcohol test at the scene of a vehicle accident in a
city vehicle, on city property or during work hours, the employee shall take
each test requested.
         (d)   An employee must submit to a post-accident test following damage
to public or private property and/or equipment if at least one of the vehicles
is disabled to the extent that it must be towed from the accident scene or
operating a vehicle or equipment owned by or leased by the city if the driver
receives a citation for a moving violation.
         (e)   An employee must submit to a post-accident test following damage
to public or private property and/or equipment or injury to self or others
resulting from a workplace accident that does not involve a vehicle.
         (f)   An employee who is requited to take post accident drug and/or
alcohol test may, at the city’s discretion, be assigned to an available non-
safety impact position or be placed on administrative leave with pay while
awaiting the test results.
         (g)   An employee who refuses or fails to submit to each post-accident
drug or alcohol test required, who unnecessarily delays reporting to the test
site following an accident, whose test results are positive for any amount of
alcohol or drugs, or who obstructs the testing process will be subject to
disciplinary action as outlined in division (G).
         (h)   The city reserves the right to order post-accident tests as it
deems appropriate based on the totality of the circumstances surrounding the
accident.
         (i)   Post-accident tests may include screens for both drugs and
alcohol.
      (4)   Random Testing.
         (a)   Drivers of city vehicles and any city employees who drive their
own personal vehicle while on city business, are subject to drug and alcohol
testing on a random basis. Employees in other safety impact positions are
subject to random drug and alcohol testing. Such tests will be given without
advance notification.
         (b)   Under the city’s random selection process, every employee will
have an equal chance of being selected each time a selection is conducted. Some
covered employees may be randomly selected for testing more than one time
annually.
         (c)   An employee who refuses to submit to a random test, who fails to
report for the random test as directed, who tests positive for the presence of
alcohol or drugs, or who obstructs the testing process will be subject to
disciplinary action as outlined in division (G).
         (d)   The minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing
shall be 10% of the average number of driver positions.
         (e)   The minimum annua] percentage rate for random controlled
substances testing shall be 25% of the average number of driver positions.
      (5)   Reasonable Suspicion Testing.
         (a)   Each employee will be required to submit to a drug and/or
alcohol test whenever the city has reasonable suspicion to believe the employee
has used drugs and/or alcohol in violation of division (C) above.
         (b)   “REASONABLE SUSPICION” means facts sufficient to cause a
reasonable person to suspect a violation of division (C) above. Observations of
reasonable suspicion include the following:
            1.   Observation of drug or alcohol use;
            2.   Observation of drugs, alcohol, or containers traditionally
used for drugs or alcohol;
            3.   Observations of behavior of the employee, including balance,
speech, reactions, and other characteristics supporting reasonable suspicion of
use of drugs or alcohol or impairment by drugs and/or alcohol;
            4.   A pattern of abnormal or erratic behavior by the employee; or
            5.   Information provided by reliable or credible sources of the
above.
         (c)   When an employee is notified that reasonable suspicion exists,
the supervisor will make arrangements for a drug and/or alcohol test complying
with this section. The city will make arrangements to transport the employee
home after the test is completed. Under no circumstances will the employee be
allowed to drive unless the test is completed and demonstrates conclusively
that the employee has not violated this policy.
         (d)   1.   An employee who is required to take a reasonable suspicion
test will be considered at that time unqualified for work and will immediately
be placed on administrative leave with pay pending the availability of test
results.
            2.   If the test result is confirmed positive, the employee will
not be paid the period of leave and wilt be subject to disciplinary action as
outlined in division (G).
      (6)   Officers Working Undercover. Officers working undercover may be
exempted from this policy by their Chief when the Chief determines that
exempting the officer from compliance with this policy is necessary to maintain
the officer’s undercover status. Exemptions shall be made on a time or case
basis and shall be no broader than necessary to maintain an officer’s
undercover status. An officer exempted by this division (D)(6) who has consumed
an alcoholic beverage shall not use deadly force except in self-defense.
      (7)   Off-Duty Standards For Police Officers.
         (a)   While off duty, and officer with alcohol in his or her blood
shall not perform any law enforcement function. “LAW ENFORCEMENT FUNCTIONS” as
used here includes:
            1.   Stopping or detaining person or vehicle;
            2.   Participating in a pursuit by driving a vehicle;
            3.   Making an arrest;
            4.   Using physical force capable of causing bodily injury,
including deadly force, against any other person;
            5.   Handling a firearm.
         (b)   Exemptions to division (D)(7)(a)1. through 5. above are
exceptions as necessary to:
            1.   Prevent injury to the officer or another person;
            2.   Prevent escape of a person who could be prevented from
escaping by the use of deadly force; or
            3.   Prevent the destruction of evidence of a crime.
   (E)   Testing Methodology and Integrity.
      (1)   To ensure the integrity and assurance of each test, all specimen
collection, analysis, and laboratory procedures will be conducted in accordance
with DOT protocols. This includes:
         (a)   Procedures to verify the identity of each covered employee at
the time of testing;
         (b)   A chain-of-custody documentation procedure to ensure that the
specimen is not mishandled, contaminated, or tampered with;
         (c)   The use of a trained Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT) and DOT
approved testing devices for conducting alcohol tests;
         (d)   Use of a laboratory that has been certified by the National
Institute for Drug Abuse (NIDA) for drug tests;
         (e)   Confirmation of an initial positive drug screen by second
analysis using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GCMS);
         (f)   Confirmation of an initial positive alcohol screen by a second
analysis;
         (g)   Appointment of a qualified third party administrator (TPA) to
review all test results before they are reported to the city designated Drug
and Alcohol Testing Administrator (DATA).
      (2)   Drug Tests.
         (a)   All drug tests conducted under section require the employee to
initially provide a urine specimen. In circumstances when a blood level is
necessary to determine whether the employee has violated division (C) of this
policy, a blood sample may be required.
         (b)   Before being tested each employee will be required to:
            1.   Present personal identification and
            2.   Agree in writing to be tested on a Drug Testing Consent and
Control Form provided by collection site personnel. An employee who refuses to
provide his or her identification, providing a false identification, refuses to
agree in writing to be tested on a Consent and Control Form or who otherwise
refuses or fails to cooperate will be subject to disciplinary action as
outlined in division (G).
         (c)   1.   At minimum, urine specimens will be analyzed for the
presence of:
               A.   Marijuana;
               B.   Cocaine;
               C.   Opiates;
               D.   Amphetamines;
               E.   Phencyclidine (PCP);
            2.   Specimens may also be analyzed for such other substances as
necessary to enforce this section. The city reserves the right to begin testing
immediately for any violation of this section.
         (d)   Employees will be permitted to give a urine specimen without
being directly observed by collection site personnel, unless collection site
personnel have reason to believe the employee is attempting to tamper with the
specimen.
         (e)   1.   All drug tests will be administered using the split sample
methodology, the employee must provide at least 45 milliliters (ml) in a
specimen container. The specimen will then be divided into two bottles by
collection site personnel. At least 30 milliliters will be poured into one
bottle and at least 15 milliliters into the second bottle. Both bottles will be
sent to the same laboratory. At the laboratory, the bottle containing 30
milliliters will be divided in half and analyzed as the employee primary
specimen.
If the first test yields positive results, the second half of the primary
specimen will be analyzed at the same laboratory using GCMS technology.
            2.   In the event the primary specimen is confirmed positive by
GCMS, the employee will be notified by the city’s TPA and given the option of
having the second bottle sent to a different laboratory for analysis. To this
operation, the employee must advise the city’s TPA in writing within 72 hours
of being told that the primary specimen is positive.
         (f)   Employees are responsible for knowing the contents, appropriate
dosage, and physical and mental effects of prescription and non-prescription
medications they take. Except for the use of medications containing alcohol,
nothing in this policy prohibits an employee’s use of medication legally
prescribed by a licensed practitioner according to the law:
            1.   Who is familiar with the employee’s medical history and duties
and
            2.   Who has advised the employee that the prescribed medication
will not adversely affect the employee’s ability to perform his or her duties
safely. Medications prescribed for someone other than the employees will not be
considered lawfully used under any circumstances. Questions concerning the
application of this division (E)(2)(f) should be referred to the DATA prior to
taking any medication except in a medical emergency.
         (g)   Before being tested for drugs, employees will be given an
opportunity to list on their copy of the chain-of-custody form, any
prescription and non-prescription medication being used by that employee at
that time. A positive drug test may be declared negative by the city’s TPA if
the employee shows that the drug detected by the test was prescribed by a
licensed practitioner who is familiar with the employee’s medical history and
job duties. This determination will be solely the responsibility of the city’s
TPA.
         (h)   In the event an employee is unable to produce 45 milliliters of
urine within a two-hour period, the employee may be required to provide a blood
sample or be required to submit to an evaluation by a license physician
selected by the city to determine whether a valid medical condition exists to
explain the failure to provide a specimen for testing. If the physician
determines a valid medical condition does exist, the test result will be
reported to the city as “negative.” If the physician determines a valid medical
condition does not exist, the test results will be reported to the city as a
refusal to cooperate in providing a specimen.
         (i)   If there are conflicting test results between the samples as
described in division (E)(2)(e) the testing procedure and testing as stated in
this policy will remain valid.
      (3)   Alcohol Tests.
         (a)   All alcohol tests conducted by, or on behalf of the city, under
this policy, require that the employee provide a breath or blood specimen. In
the case of an alcohol test conducted by a law enforcement officer following an
accident, the employee must provide either a breath or blood specimen, as
directed by the officer.
         (b)   Alcohol tests will be administered by a breath alcohol
technician (BAT) using an approved testing device instrument, except in cases
of on scene, post accident testing conducted by law enforcement officials or
preliminary return-to-duty testing by a city supervisor.
         (c)   Before being tested by the city, each employee will be required
to:
            1.   Present personal identification; and
            2.   Agree in writing to breath alcohol test by the BAT. An
employee who refuses to provide identification, provides a false
identification, refuses to agree in writing to a breath alcohol test, or who
other wise refuses or fails to cooperate will be subject to disciplinary action
as outlined in division (G).
         (d)   Prior to each breath alcohol test conducted by the city using an
approved testing instrument, the BAT will instruct the employee on how to
provide an adequate breath sample.
         (e)   The BAT will open an individually-sealed mouthpiece and attach
it to the testing device within the employee’s view. The employee will then be
directed to blow forcefully into the mouthpiece until an adequate amount of
breath has been collected by instrument.
         (f)   In the event an employee is unable to provide an adequate amount
of breath for an initial or confirmatory test after at least three attempts,
the employee will have the option to provide a block sample or submit to an
evaluation by a certified physician at the city’s expense to determine whether
a medical condition exists to explain the inability to produce a specimen for
testing. If the physician determines a valid medical condition does exist, the
test result will be reported to the city as “negative.” If the physician
determines that such a medical condition does not exist, the test results will
be reported to the city as refusal to cooperate.
   (F)   Reporting of Test Results.
      (1)   Drug Tests.
         (a)   Before an employee’s test result will be confirmed positive for
drugs, the employee will be given an opportunity to speak with the city’s TPA
and demonstrate a legitimate medical explanation for the positive result. If
the TPA determines that a legitimate medical reason does exist, the test result
will be reported to the city as “negative.” If the TPA determines that a
legitimate medical reason does not exist, the test result will be reported to
the city as “confirmed positive.”
         (b)   If the employee’s primary specimen tests positive, the employee
will be notified by the city’s TPA and advised that he or she has 72 hours to
request that the secondary specimen be sent to another NIDA certified
laboratory for analysis; the city will pay for the cost of the second test. If
the test result is positive the employee will be subject to disciplinary action
as outlined in division (G) and the city will deduct the amount of pay the
employee received, during their suspension with pay, from their next pay check.
      (2)   Alcohol Tests.
         (a)   If an employee provides an adequate breath specimen and the
initial test registers a blood-alcohol concentration level less than 0.02% by
weight, the test results will be reported as “negative” and no further testing
will be required at that time.
         (b)   If an employee provides an adequate breath specimen and the
initial test registers a blood alcohol concentration level of 0.02% by weight
or greater, a second, confirmatory breath test will be performed no sooner than
15 minutes and no longer than 30 minutes (according to DOT records) after their
first specimen was provided. If the employee provides an adequate breath
specimen and the confirmatory test registers less than 0.02% by weight, the
test results will be reported as “negative” and no further testing will be
required at the time.
         (c)   An employee whose confirmatory blood-alcohol test is 0.02% by
weight or greater will be subject to disciplinary action as outlined in
division (G).
   (G)   Disciplinary Action.
      (1)   Employees and applicants who refuse or fail to agree in writing to
be tested pursuant to city policy will be terminated or removed from the
application process.
      (2)   Employees and applicants who test positive for drugs in violation
of this policy will be subject to the following:
         (a)   An applicant whose test results under this policy are confirmed
positive will be removed from the application process.
         (b)   An employee who receives a first confirmed positive drug test
conducted under this policy will be suspended with pay until the employee’s
drug test and the results remain confirmed positive, the employee will be
terminated and referred to a substance abuse counselor.
         (c)   The amount of pay an employee received during the time they were
suspended with pay will be deducted from their last pay check.
      (3)   Employees who refuse or fail to agree in writing to be tested
pursuant to this section will be terminated.
      (4)   Employees who test positive for alcohol will be subject to the
following:
         (a)   For the first occasion in which an employee has confirmed blood-
alcohol concentration (BAC) between 0.02% and 0.05% by weight, the employee
will be:
            1.   Suspended three days without pay;
            2.   Referred to the city’s Employees Assistance Program (EAP) for
counseling;
            3.   Required to successfully complete any rehabilitation program
that maybe outlined by the EAP counselor;
            4.   Required to submit to another test upon return to duty.
         (b)   For the second occasion in which an employee has BAC between
0.02% and 0.05% the employee will be:
            1.   Suspended five days without pay;
            2.   Required to enroll themselves in a rehabilitation program and
successfully complete all requirements;
            3.   Required to submit to follow-up tests upon return to duty.
         (c)   For the first occasion in which an employee has a confirmed BAC
over 0.05% by weight or greater, the employee will be terminated and referred
to a substance abuse counselor.
         (d)   Employees are granted the right to request a blood test upon a
confirmed BAC over 0.02% by weight or greater. However, this is at the expense
of the employee and the test must be administered within 30 minutes of the
first breath test.
      (5)   An employee who fails to report a violation of this section to
their supervisor or DATA, committed by another to employee, shall be suspended
without pay for one to five calendar days and may be subject to termination.
      (6)   An employee who is in a safety impact position and is charged with
a drug and or alcohol violation on their own personal time may be subject to
disciplinary action through the city. Depending on the severity of the
violation, the employee’s work history, and the evaluation of any pertinent
facts (i.e., loss of their driver’s license and a driver’s license is a job
requirement), an employee may be subject to disciplinary action.
   (H)   Maintaining Contact with the City and TPA after a Drug Test.
      (1)   Employees who are tested for drugs are required to remain in
contact with the city’s Drug and Alcohol Testing Administrator (DATA) and Third
Party Administrator (TPA) while awaiting the results of their test. Employees
are required to advise the city of their whereabouts and the telephone number
where they can be reached during this time.
      (2)   The Mayor is the city’s Drug and Alcohol Testing Administrator
(DATA)
      (3)   The city’s Third Party Administrator (TPA) will be selected by the
Mayor.
      (4)   An employee who refuses or fails to remain in contact with DATA or
TPA may waive his or her right, under division (F)(1)(a) of this policy, to
speak with the city’s TPA before a test is confirmed positive and may be
subject to termination.
   (I)   Drug and Alcohol Information.
      (1)   The city will provide educational materials and training for all
employees explaining the city’s drug and alcohol testing policies and
procedures. Applicable drivers will also be given explanation of DOT
requirements. In addition, the city will provide all employees with information
concerning:
         (a)   The effects of drug and alcohol on an individual’s health, work,
and personal life;
         (b)   The signs and symptoms of a drug or alcohol problem; and
         (c)   Available methods of intervention when a problem does exist.
      (2)   Each employee is required to agree in writing that he or she has
been given a copy of this policy a amended from time to time, and other drug
and alcohol information as outlined above. Employees who refuse to execute the
required agreement will be subject to discipline up to and including
termination. Applicants are required to execute the agreement after a
conditional offer of employment as a condition of being employed.
   (J)   Payment of Costs.
      (1)   The city will pay the costs for all initial and confirmatory drug
and alcohol test required by this section.
      (2)   Employees are responsible for the costs of analyzing any secondary
urine specimens requested under division (F)(1)(b) of this section. The city
will reimburse the cost of the analysis of a secondary urine specimen only if
the test results are negative.
      (3)   The city will pay the cost of the city’s Employee Assistance
Program.
      (4)   Employees also have benefits for drug and alcohol treatment through
their medical insurance. Please refer to the City of Greensburg Employee
Benefits Plan for specific coverage amounts.
      (5)   Employees who are terminated under the provisions of this policy
will be responsible for the cost of any and all counseling that occurs after
the termination date.
      (6)   Employees who wish to have an additional sample collected and are
able to do so, will be responsible for paying all incidental costs of the
testing procedures.
   (K)   Confidentiality.
      (1)   The results of all individual drug and alcohol tests will be
considered confidential and kept in a secured location with controlled access
separate from the employee’s personnel file.
      (2)   The release of an individual employee’s results will be made only
in accordance with the employee’s written authorization or as otherwise
required by applicable laws, orders, regulations, or resolutions.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.128 APPEARANCE OF WORK AREAS.
   The city expects the work areas of all employees to be well organized,
clean, and attractive. These qualities promote health, productivity, safety,
good morale, and customer respect. Employees are responsible for maintaining
the cleanliness of non-work areas that are used by employees, such as meal and
break areas. This policy applies to all employees.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.129 BUSINESS TRAVEL.
   (A)   (1)   The city is responsible for authorizing employee business travel
and reimbursement of travel expenses including overnight lodging, and per day
meal allowances as set by the State Board of Accounts. All employees must
obtain authorization from the appointing authority department head before
business travel or reimbursement of expenses.
      (2)   Whenever practicable, travel will be accomplished in a city vehicle
or via common carrier. If a personal vehicle must be used for authorized
travel, the employees shall be reimbursed at prevailing rates authorized by the
Board of Works.
      (3)   Employee pay for travel time shall be determined according to
applicable provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
   (B)   State Called Meetings. The city will reimburse city employees for a
state called meeting specified by statute or the State Board of Accounts.
Reimbursement for state called meetings will be for:
      (1)   Reasonable hotel/motel accommodations;
      (2)   Mileage rate is set per local ordinance; and
      (3)   The City Council shall establish meal allowance rates for
individuals attending a meeting. Employees shall submit a claim to the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office for reimbursement of meal expenses subject to Board of Works
approval.
   (C)   Other Meetings/Job-Related Training.
      (1)   An employee on authorized official city business requiring
overnight accommodations will be reimbursed for:
         (a)   Reasonable hotel/motel accommodations;
         (b)   Bus, taxi, and airport transportation;
         (c)   Air, rail, or bus tickets as lowest possible fare;
         (d)   Mileage rate is set per local ordinance; and
         (e)   The City Council shall establish meal allowance rates for
individuals attending a meeting. Employees shall submit a claim to the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office for reimbursement of meal expenses subject to Board of Works
approval.
      (2)   An employee on authorized official city business attending a
meeting not requiring overnight accommodations will be reimbursed for:
         (a)   Bus, taxi, and airport transportation;
         (b)   Air, rail, or bus tickets as lowest possible fare;
         (c)   Mileage rate is set per local ordinance;
         (d)   Necessary parking and storage fees; and
         (e)   The City Council shall establish meal allowance rates for
individuals attending a meeting. Employees shall submit a claim to the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office for reimbursement of meal expenses subject to Board of Works
approval.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.130 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   City employees are not required to participate, financially or
otherwise, in any political campaign or party activity. This policy includes
any threats or coercion by department heads or political party officials.
   (B)   City facilities shall not be used to display campaign signs or
literature. City owned equipment shall not be used to generate, copy, or
reproduce campaign materials. City vehicles shall not be used to distribute
campaign materials. City telephones or facsimile machines shall not be used for
campaign purposes.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.131 BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS.
   (A)   Employees working in high risk jobs will be offered bloodborne
pathogen training and a series of Hepatitis B vaccinations for their
protection. The city will provide this service free of charge for those
employees wishing to participate in this program.
   (B)   The Occupational Safety and Health Administration has determined that
certain employees in the workplace face a significant risk to bloodborne
pathogens due to their job duties. To ensure that city employees are aware of
occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens the city has developed an
exposure control plan to minimize or eliminate employee contact with human
blood or other bodily fluid which may contain bloodborne pathogens such as
Hepatitis B virus and HIV. Control plans are available in city departments.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.132 SMOKING.
   (A)   In keeping with the city’s intent to provide a safe and healthful work
environment for city employees and citizens, the city has instituted a tobacco
free workplace. This policy prohibits smoking within eight feet of city
facilities and vehicles.
   (B)   This policy applies equally to all employees, citizens, and visitors
and signs are posted in city facilities.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.133 FUEL CARD POLICY.
   (A)   The city issues fuel cards to designated departments for the purpose
of fueling city vehicles. City fuel cards are for business use only and shall
not be used for personal purchases. Each vehicle has a fuel card with an
assigned personal identification number (PIN). The fuel card shall remain in
the vehicle or with the assigned employee at all times. Receipts are required
for all fuel purchases and shall be submitted to the department head. The
department head shall maintain a log of fuel for each vehicle along with
receipts for fuel purchases.
   (B)   City issued fuel cards are the property of the city and employees are
required to return such cards and all supporting documentation upon request. If
a card is lost or stolen, the employee should report the missing card
immediately to his or her department head.
   (C)   City employees violating this policy shall be subject to disciplinary
action, up to and including termination.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.134 INDIANA INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS POLICY.
   (A)   IC 5-1l-l-27(e) provides that through the compliance guidelines
authorized under IC 5-11-1-24 the State Board of Accounts (SBoA) shall define
the acceptable minimum level of internal control standards for internal control
systems of political subdivisions, including the following:
      (1)   Control environment.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
      (3)   Control activities.
      (4)   Information and communication.
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (B)   IC 5-11-1-27(g) requires that the City Council must adopt the minimum
internal control standards as defined by SBoA. Additionally, the Council must
ensure that employees receive training concerning the internal control
standards and procedures adopted by the city.
   (C)   The City Council has adopted the internal control standards as defined
by SBoA under IC 5-11-1-27(e). Personnel training of employees shall be
evidenced through a certification process. The Mayor will be responsible for
developing and overseeing the administration of the internal control standards
policy, training, and certifications.
   (D)   At the time of submission of the annual report, the Clerk-Treasurer
must certify that the minimum internal control standards have been adopted and
that personnel who are not otherwise on leave status have received training
regarding these standards and procedures.
   (E)   Apart from the required certification to be filed by the Clerk-
Treasurer, elected officials, appointees, and employees must sign the Internal
Control Training Certification form for Elected Officials, Appointees, and
Employees as evidence for their training. These certifications are to be
maintained by the city on-site.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.135 WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY.
   (A)   A “WHISTLEBLOWER” as defined by this policy is an employee of the city
who reports an activity that he/she considers to be illegal or dishonest. The
whistleblower is not responsible for investigating the activity or for
determining fault or corrective measures. The Board of Works is charged with
these responsibilities.
   (B)   Examples of illegal or dishonest activities are violations of federal,
state or local laws; billing for services not performed or for goods not
delivers; and other fraudulent financial reporting.
   (C)   If an employee has knowledge of or a concern of illegal or dishonest
fraudulent activity, the employee shall submit those concerns in writing to the
City Attorney. Such employee reports of wrongdoing will be investigated by
investigators selected by the City Attorney. In addition, other individuals may
be included in reviewing the investigation findings at the discretion of the
City Attorney.
   (D)   Employees should exercise sound judgment to avoid baseless
allegations. An employee who intentionally files a false report of wrongdoing
shall be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of
employment.
   (E)   Whistleblower protections are provided in two important areas -
confidentiality and no retaliatory actions. Insofar as possible, the
confidentiality of the whistleblower will be maintained. However,
confidentiality is not guaranteed; the identity of the reporting individual may
have to be disclosed to conduct a thorough investigation, to comply with the
law, and to provide the accused individuals their legal rights of defense.
   (F)   The city will not retaliate against a whistleblower. This includes
protection from retaliation in the form of an adverse employment action such as
termination, compensation decreases, and threats of physical harm.
   (G)   Any whistleblower who believes he or she is being retaliated against
should submit their concerns in writing to the City Attorney immediately. Any
report of retaliation shall be made within 30 days from the most recent
incident. Any report of retaliation must state with particularity those actions
that the employee making the report believes constitute retaliation. The right
of a whistleblower for protection against retaliation does not include immunity
for any personal wrongdoing that is alleged and investigated.
   (H)   All investigative reports of illegal and dishonest activities will be
promptly submitted to the Board of Works who will be responsible for
determining any wrongdoing and coordinating corrective actions.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
PERSONAL CONDUCT
§ 36.145 APPLICABILITY.
   The policies contained in this chapter and throughout the Greensburg
personnel policies handbook apply to all city employees, except when in direct
conflict with special employment conditions set forth by various statutes
governing employment relationships.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.146 EMPLOYEE CONDUCT AND WORK RULES.
   (A)   Employees are expected to maintain high standards of personal
appearance, conduct, cooperation, efficiency and economy in their work. All
employees should attempt to correct any faults in their performance which are
called to their attention and should also avoid any behavior and actions which
conflict with city rules and regulations.
   (B)   Every employee must remember that the city is a tax-supported entity
and the citizens of the city paying those taxes should receive the best
possible quality and highest standard of service possible. Public employees
should act in a professional manner, using good judgment and courtesy at all
times, and should avoid any type of behavior that would even appear illegal or
unethical. Employees should carry out their work efficiently, honestly, and
with the intention of keeping good relationships with the public.
   (C)   Individual employees must be responsible to their supervisor. Work
directions and results, measurement of performance, and handling grievances are
the responsibility of the supervisor.
   (D)   Occasionally, someone may give employees directions other than their
direct supervisor. In these instances, it is the employee’s responsibility to
inform the supervisor of the situation.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.147 ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY.
   (A)   To maintain a safe and productive work environment, the city expects
employees to be reliable and to be punctual in reporting for scheduled work.
Absenteeism and tardiness place a burden on other employees and on the city.
Poor attendance and excessive tardiness are disruptive. Either may lead to
disciplinary action, including termination of employment.
   (B)   In the rare instance when an employee cannot avoid being late to work
or is unable to work as scheduled, he or she should notify the department head
at least one-half hour before the time the employee would normally begin the
shift or work day.
   (C)   Supervisors are to keep accurate records on city payroll forms of all
employee absences, including designation of whether supervisor notification was
provided by the employee.
   (D)   Excessive lateness and absence shall be considered to be three
occurrences of unexcused absences in a six-month period; or three occurrences
of lateness in a three-month period; or any combination thereof.
   (E)   An unexcused absence is defined as an absence for which the employee
does not have any available earned benefit time to charge the absence against,
or where applicable, the employee does not have the approval of the supervisor.
   (F)   Employees with an absence of more than one work day without
notification of absence are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
termination.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.148 PERSONAL APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Dress, grooming, and personal cleanliness standards contribute to the
morale of all employees and affect the business image we present to our
citizens and visitors.
   (B)   During business hours, employees are expected to present a clean and
neat appearance and to dress according to the requirements of their positions.
Employees who appear for work inappropriately dressed will be sent home and
directed to return to work in proper attire.
   (C)   Under such circumstances, employees will not be compensated for the
time away from work. Consult your department head if you have questions as to
what constitutes appropriate attire.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.149 COMMISSION OF A FELONY OR UNLAWFUL ACT.
   (A)   Any employee found guilty of a felony will be subject to immediate
dismissal. An employee charged with a felony or found participating in
felonious activity either during work hours or while off-duty will be subject
to an unpaid leave of absence from work until a court of law establishes
innocence or guilt.
   (B)   Any employee found guilty of a misdemeanor may be subject to
suspension or discharge including not being legally qualified to operate
assigned vehicles or equipment.
   (C)   Misdemeanors that involve city vehicles/property, or in which the
associate behavior reflects poorly upon the employee and/or the city will be
treated similarly.
   (D)   The city is committed to providing its citizens with qualified staff
who possess good character and standards. This policy provides basic safeguards
in maintaining a safe working environment for employees and citizens and in
fulfilling this commitment.
   (E)   Whenever an employee is cited for an infraction while on duty or
arrested for any misdemeanor or felony while on duty, the employee shall report
this matter, in writing, to their department head within 24 hours of the arrest
or citation. Failure to report in accordance with this policy shall be
considered a violation of the personnel policies subject to disciplinary
actions up to and including termination.
   (F)   Citations for moving traffic violations or arrests for misdemeanors or
felonies which occur during an employee’s off-duty hours must be reported to
the department head in writing within five calendar days of receiving the
citation or the arrest.
   (G)   Unauthorized time away from work shall be subject to the city’s
attendance and wage policies. Time spent under arrest or in jail is not
considered a valid excuse for missing work.
   (H)   An employee who is cited for an infraction or arrested for any
misdemeanor or felony, whether the citation or arrest happened while the
employee was on duty or not, may be suspended without pay pending an
administrative investigation and/or the disposition of any charges filed
against the employee.
   (I)   The investigation will be used to determine if the accused employee is
in violation of the personnel policies and to determine if disciplinary action
is warranted, up to and including termination.
   (J)   The determination as to whether an employee shall be suspended will be
based upon the nature and circumstances of the alleged offense and the impact
the charges may have on the employee’s ability to adequately perform their job
duties and/or remain in compliance with the city’s personnel policies.
   (K)   It is the responsibility of any employee with pending criminal charges
to provide their department head written documentation such as a court record
of the disposition of the charges within five calendar days after receiving
notification. Failure to do so will be considered a violation of this policy
and may subject the employee to discipline, up to and including termination.
   (L)   If the employee is on a leave of absence pending administrative
investigation and/or the disposition of any charges, and the employee is not
found to have been in violation of the personnel policies, he or she shall be
returned from suspension.
   (M)   Factors to be used in determining appropriate discipline, which may
range from no disciplinary action up to termination of employment, will include
the employee’s assigned duties and responsibilities, the nature of the offense,
sentences imposed, other convictions/infractions, relevant provisions of
Indiana statutes, licensing requirements, risk of recidivism, reasonable
inferences about problems with self control, propensity for violence, honesty,
and damage to the reputation of the employee, the employee's department, and/or
city government.
   (N)   Any employee found guilty, admitting guilt, or pleading no contest or
nolo contendere of/to a felony will be subject to immediate dismissal.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.150 GIFTS OR GRATUITIES.
   (A)   Employees are encouraged to maintain good relations with suppliers and
others with whom the city may have business dealings. However, the practice of
accepting gifts or gratuities maybe contrary to the public interest.
   (B)   Employees shall not accept gifts or gratuities from firms,
organizations, agents, or other individuals soliciting business with the city
in furnishing materials, goods, and services. A gift of nominal value shall not
constitute a gift under this policy.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.151 GHOST EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The city is committed to providing efficient and lawful services to
its citizens and to maintaining public trust. Therefore, “ghost employment” is
a violation of city policy and of IC 35-44-2-4. Ghost employment is a Class D
felony.
   (B)   A public servant who knowingly or intentionally hires an employee for
a governmental entity and fails to assign the employee any duties, or assigns
duties not related to the operation of the governmental entity, is committing
ghost employment.
   (C)   Additionally, a public servant employed by a governmental entity
knowing that he or she has not been assigned any duties to perform for the
entity and accepts property (compensation) from the entity, or a public servant
who knowingly or intentionally accepts property (compensation) from the entity
for the performance of duties not related to the operation of the entity,
commits ghost employment.
Examples of violations of this policy include, but are not limited to,
performing work on public property that is not job related, authorizing or
receiving payment for time not worked, and authorizing or receiving payment for
leave time not authorized by city paid leave policies. Violations of this
policy shall result in disciplinary action up to and including termination, in
addition to potential prosecution under IC 35-44-2-4.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
Editor's note:
   IC 35-44-2-4 was repealed by P.L. 126-2012, Sec. 53
§ 36.152 BUSINESS ETHICS/CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The city recognizes and respects the right of individual employees to
engage in private activities outside of the organization that do not in any way
conflict with, or reflect poorly on the city.
   (B)   The city also recognizes its right and obligation to determine when an
employee’s activities present a conflict of interest with the city. At such
times the city must take whatever action is necessary to resolve the situation,
including but not limited to, terminating employment. This policy applies to
all employees, as well as to former employees, where applicable.
   (C)   Employees having financial interest in a company or substantial
investments in a corporation that might benefit from their dealings with the
city must file a conflict of interest statement with the County Clerk of
Decatur County and City Clerk-Treasurer. If deemed by said official to be in
the best interest of the city, those employees shall either divest themselves
of such interest or investments or be ineligible for continued employment with
the city.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.153 SEXUAL HARASSMENT/HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   (1)   It is the policy of the city to provide all employees and
volunteers with a workplace that is safe, comfortable, and free of harassment.
It is our policy to prohibit all forms of harassment at work and during off-
site city-related activities, including harassment based on age, race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, or veteran
status. All employees are responsible for complying with the policy against
workplace harassment.
      (2)   Any employee who engages in harassment on the basis of race,
gender, religion, color, age, disability, national origin, sexual orientation,
or veteran status; who permits employees under his or her supervision to engage
in such harassment; or who retaliates or permits retaliation against an
employee who reports such harassment is guilty of misconduct and shall be
subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
      (3)   Sexual harassment is prohibited and includes any unwelcome sexual
advance, requests for sexual favor, and other verbal or physical conduct of a
sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made, either explicitly or
implicitly, as a term of condition of employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as a factor
in any employment decision, affecting any individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose of unreasonably interfering with
any employee’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive working environment.
      (4)   This policy prohibits sexual advances, requests for sex (with or
without related threats, promises of favors, or other benefits), or other
verbal or physical sexual conduct which could have a harmful effect on any
employee’s work performance or create a hostile or offensive work environment.
Examples of “sexual harassment” include:
         (a)   Obscene or sexually suggestive comments about a person’s body;
         (b)   “Off color” language or “dirty” jokes of a sexual nature;
         (c)   Slurs, threats, repeated commands, or other offensive verbal or
physical conduct relating to a person’s sex or sexual orientation;
         (d)   Offensive or unwelcome sexual flirtations, advances, or
propositions, communicated verbally, by touch, or in writing;
         (e)   Use of sexually degrading words to describe a person or group of
people;
         (f)   Any display of sexually explicit photographs, drawings, greeting
cards, articles, books, magazines, or other printed items; or
         (g)   Repeated unwelcome or unnecessary touching of any part of
another’s body.
      (5)   (a)   “HARASSMENT” is defined as behavior which has the purpose of
creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment, or has the
purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work
performance. Otherwise, adversely affects an individual’s employment
opportunities.
         (b)   “HARASSMENT” also includes slurs and other verbal or physical
conduct relating to an individual’s race, color, religion, sex, gender, age,
disability, national origin, or being a member of another protected
classification.
      (6)   Even conduct that is intended to be “innocent” may still constitute
sexual harassment if it falls within the terms of this policy. Regardless of
intent, how others interpret behavior is important.
      (7)   This policy is not meant to interfere with or discourage
friendships among employees, However, employees must be sensitive to acts or
conduct that may be considered offensive by others.
      (8)   This policy applies to all city employees.
   (B)   Reporting a Complaint.
      (1)   While the city encourages individuals who believe they are being
harassed to firmly and promptly notify the offender that his or her behavior is
unwelcome, the city also recognizes that power and status disparities between
an alleged harasser and a target may make such a confrontation impossible. An
alleged victim of harassment is no! required to confront the person who is the
source of the problem, in the event that such informal, direct communication
between individuals is either ineffective or impossible, the following steps
should be followed in reporting a sexual harassment complaint.
      (2)   In order to take a corrective action, the city must be aware of
sexual harassment or related retaliation. Therefore, anyone who believes that
he or she has experienced or witnessed sexual harassment or related retaliation
should promptly report such behavior.
Any employee who experiences sexual harassment should contact his or her
department head immediately. If unresolved, or in the event the harassment is
alleged against the department head, the employee is advised to obtain, a
sexual harassment complaint form from the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The
employee is directed to submit the completed form to the department head, or in
the event the alleged harassment is against the department head, the completed
form is to be submitted to the Mayor or City Attorney. The best time to
register a complaint is immediately after the act occurs.
      (3)   Any supervisor who has witnessed or becomes aware of the alleged
occurrence of sexual harassment or retaliation, or receives a complaint of
sexual harassment involving a person within that supervisor’s purview is
required to take prompt corrective action and to report the incident to the
City Attorney. Failure of a supervisor to immediately take corrective action or
to report the incident shall constitute misconduct subject to disciplinary
action.
   (C)   Description of Misconduct.
      (1)   An accurate record of objectionable behavior or misconduct is
needed to resolve a formal complaint of sexual harassment.
      (2)   Verbal reports of sexual harassment must be recorded in written
form by either the complainant or the individual(s) designated to receive
complaints, and be signed by the complainant. Individuals who believe they have
been or currently are being harassed should maintain a record of objectionable
conduct to effectively prepare and corroborate their allegations.
      (3)   While the city encourages individuals to keep written notes in
order to accurately record offensive conduct or behavior, it must be recognized
that, in the event that a lawsuit develops from the reported incident, the
confidentiality of the complainant’s written notes may not be recognized under
Indiana law, and the notes may have to be disclosed.
      (4)   City department heads and the Clerk-Treasurer have copies of the
City Sexual Harassment Complaint form. Employees are directed to obtain,
complete, and submit this form to initiate a formal complaint.
   (E)   Time Frame for Reporting Complaints. The city encourages a prompt
reporting of complaints so that rapid response and appropriate action may be
taken. However, due to the sensitivity of these problems and because of the
emotional toll such misconduct may have on an individual, no limited time frame
will be instituted for reporting sexual harassment complaints. Late reporting
of complaints will not in and of itself preclude the city from taking remedial
action.
   (F)   Protection Against Retaliation. The city will not in any way retaliate
against the individual who makes a report of sexual harassment nor permit any
supervisor or employee to do so. Retaliation is a serious violation of this
sexual harassment policy and should be reported immediately. Any person found
to have retaliated against another individual for the good faith reporting of
sexual harassment will be subject to the same disciplinary action provided for
sexual harassment offenders.
   (G)   Investigating the Complaint.
      (1)   Any allegation of sexual harassment that is reported will be
promptly investigated in as discreet a manner possible to protect the privacy
of persons involved. The city will use its best efforts to maintain
confidentiality throughout the investigatory process to the extent practical
and appropriate under the circumstances; however, confidentiality is not
guaranteed. The alleged harasser will be notified of the nature of the
complaint made against him or her.
      (2)   Upon completing the investigation of a sexual harassment complaint,
the city will communicate its findings to the complainant and the alleged
harasser. If the Board of Works and the alleged harasser’s department head
determine that harassment occurred, they will determine appropriate
disciplinary action.
      (3)   The complainant will be informed of the disciplinary action to be
taken.
      (4)   In determining whether alleged conduct constitutes sexual
harassment, the city will look at the investigative file as a whole and the
totality of the circumstances, such as the nature of the conduct and the
context in which the alleged incidents occurred. The determination of whether
disciplinary action is to betaken will be made from the facts, on a case-by-
case basis.
   (H)   Identification of Investigators. Complaints will be investigated by
the City Attorney and the appropriate department head or designees retained by
the city. In addition, other individuals may be included in reviewing the
investigation and outcome at the discretion of the City Attorney. The city will
make every effort to ensure that those named in a complaint, or are too closely
associated with those involved in the complaint, will not be part of the
investigative team or efforts.
   (I)   False Accusations. The city also recognizes that careful consideration
must be given to questions regarding whether a particular action or incident is
purely personal or social without any discriminatory employment effect. False
accusations of sexual harassment can have devastating effects on the lives and
reputations of innocent women and men. Therefore, the city may discipline, up
to and including termination of employment, those employees who after an
investigation are found to have falsely accused others of sexual harassment,
knowingly or in a malicious manner.
   (J)   Sanctions.
      (1)   Individuals found to have engaged in misconduct constituting sexual
harassment, creating a hostile work environment, or related retaliation will be
severely disciplined, up to and including discharge. Additional action may
include: referral to counseling, withholding of a promotion, reassignment,
demotion, temporary suspension without pay or termination.
      (2)   Although the city’s ability to discipline a non-city employee
harasser is limited, any city employee who has been subjected to sexual
harassment by a non-city employee at the workplace and work-related setting
should file a complaint so that action may be taken.
   (K)   Maintaining a Written Record of the Complaint. The city will maintain
a complete written record of each complaint and how it was investigated and
resolved. Written records shall be maintained in the City Attorney’s Office,
and if disciplinary action was taken, a record shall be maintained in the
offender’s personnel file.
   (L)   Prevention. Prevention is the best policy for the elimination of
sexual harassment. Employees shall remain cognizant of sexual harassment to
avoid contributing conditions that would encourage such activity. Sexual
harassment and hostile work environment violations will result in disciplinary
action, up to and including termination of employment.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.154 SOLICITATION/DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   This policy is designed to protect the interests of the citizens of
the city by ensuring that only official city business is transacted in work
areas during employees’ work time.
   (B)   Employees shall not solicit other employees or non-employees during
work time.
   (C)   There shall be no solicitation or distribution at any time in city
facilities. This section does not apply to city vendors and/or charity
organizations who have received the approval of the Mayor.
   (D)   Employees violating this policy will be subject to disciplinary
action, up to and including discharge.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.155 SECURITY OF PREMISES.
   (A)   The city wishes to maintain a work environment that is free of illegal
drugs, alcohol, firearms, explosives, or other improper materials. To this end,
the city prohibits the control, possession, transfer, sale or use of such
materials on its premises. However, effective on July 1,2010, IC 34-28-7 allows
employees who may lawfully possess a firearm to bring firearms and ammunition
onto city property as long as the firearm and ammunition are locked in a glove
box or trunk or stored out of plain sight in the employee’s personal locked
vehicle. This exception does not apply to employees driving or riding in city-
owned vehicles where firearms and ammunition are prohibited. Employees of a
penal facility or other city facilities listed in IC 34-28-7-2(a)(2) do not
have these rights.
   (B)   Except for law enforcement officers who are authorized to carry
firearms in the line of duty, employees shall not bring firearms or ammunition
onto city property including in their personal vehicles.
The city prohibits the possession of firearms, ammunition, and the possession
of other weapons by persons, other than city employees and the law enforcement
officers on city property. The city requires the cooperation of all employees
in administering this policy.
   (C)   Desks, lockers, and other storage devices maybe provided for the
convenience of employees but remains the sole property of the city.
Accordingly, they, as well as any articles found within them, can be inspected
by any agent or representative of the city at any time, wither with or without
prior notice.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.156 WORKPLACE VIOLENCE.
   (A)   The safety and security of the city employees and customers is very
important. It is the intent of the city to provide a workplace for all
employees which is free of violence. Threats, threatening behavior, acts of
violence, or any related conduct which disrupts another’s work performance or
the organization’s ability to execute its mission will not be tolerated.
   (B)   Workplace violence includes, but is not limited to, intimidation,
threats, physical attack or property damage. These terms are defined as
follows:
      (1)   “INTIMIDATION” includes, but is not limited to, stalking or
engaging in actions intended to frighten, coerce, or induce duress.
      (2)   “THREAT” is the expression of an intent to cause physical or mental
harm. An expression constitutes a “THREAT” without regard to whether the person
communicating the “THREAT” has presented the ability to carry it out and
without regard to whether expression is contingent, conditional, or future.
      (3)   “PHYSICAL ATTACK” is unwanted or hostile physical contact such as
hitting, fighting, pushing, shoving, throwing objects, firing a weapon, causing
an explosion of hazardous materials, or discharge of hazardous substances.
      (4)   “PROPERTY DAMAGE” is intentional damage to property which includes
property owned or leased by the city, employees, visitors, or vendors.
   (C)   Any person who makes threats, exhibits threatening behavior, or
engages in violent acts on City-owned or leased property may be removed from
the premises. Additionally, illegal firearms, weapons, and other dangerous or
hazardous devices or substances are strictly prohibited from the premises of
the city without proper authorization as stated in § 36.146, Security of
Premises.
   (D)   Threats, threatening behavior, or acts of violence executed off city-
owned or leased property but directed at city employees or members of the
public while conducting official city business, is a violation of this policy.
Off-site threats include, but are not limited to, threats made via the
telephone, fax or electronic or conventional mail, or any other communication
medium.
   (E)   Violations of this policy will lead to disciplinary action that may
include dismissal, arrest, and prosecution. In addition, if the source of such
inappropriate behavior is a member of the public, the response may also include
barring the person(s) from city-owned or leased premises, termination of
business relationships with the individual(s), arrest, and prosecution of the
person(s) involved.
   (F)   Employees are responsible for notifying their department head of any
threats which they have witnessed, received, or have been told that another
person has witnessed or received. Employees should also report any behavior
they have witnessed which they regard as threatening or violent when the
behavior is job related or might be carried out on city-owned or leased
property or in connection with city employment.
   (G)   Any employee who receives a protective or restraining order which
lists city-owned or leased premises as a protected area is required to provide
their department head with a copy of such order.
   (H)   If an emergency exists, contact the Police Department at 911, and
notify your supervisor.
   (I)   If not an emergency, employees should inform their department head. If
the department head is unavailable or if the nature of the complaint is such
that the employee does not believe he or she can discuss it with the department
head, the employee may bring concerns to the Mayor.
   (J)   Employees who act in good faith by reporting real or implied violent
behavior violations of this policy need not fear retaliation.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.157 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Employees are advised to consult with their supervisor before releasing
information which is confidential or privileged by law. It is a violation of
state law for a public servant to knowingly or intentionally disclose
information classified as confidential.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.158 EMPLOYEE CONDUCT.
   (A)   Employee job performance and personal conduct directly impact the
city’s ability to achieve its mission of public service.
   (B)   Therefore, the following work rules and principles of job performance
are adopted as guidelines for monitoring behavior and exercising disciplinary
actions. City employees are expected to follow procedures and guidelines set
forth by the city and the employee’s office/department policies and procedures.
   (C)   Behavior of Employees. In regulating the behavior of its employees,
the city has classified offenses as first, second, and third level offenses
based upon their seriousness. These classifications are provided only to
illustrate the procedures that will generally be followed in respect to such
conduct.
   (D)   This classification system should not be construed to in any way limit
the city’s discretion in exercising discipline as it finds appropriate based on
the severity of the misconduct or the totality of the circumstances.
   (E)   The following conduct is prohibited and will subject the individual
involved to disciplinary action up to and including termination. This list of
examples is merely illustrative of the kinds of conduct that will not be
permitted. It is not intended to be all inclusive or to in any way limit rules,
guidelines, and restrictions set out elsewhere in this manual.
   GROUP I OFFENSES
   (Examples of, but not limited to the following:)
1.   Failure to report for duty within a reasonable time after call.
2.   Reporting to work clothed or groomed in an unclean or inappropriate
manner.
3.   Discourteous treatment of the public.
4.   Neglect or carelessness in signing in or out.
5.   Failure to cooperate with other employees as required by job duties.
6.   Distracting the attention of others, unnecessarily shouting, demonstrating
or otherwise causing a disruption on the job.
7.   Malicious mischief, horseplay, wrestling, or other undesirable conduct,
including use of profane or abusive language.
8.   Unauthorized use of telephone or mail for personal use.
9.   Failure to report accidents, injury or equipment damage.
10.   Unsatisfactory work or failure to maintain required standard of
performance.
11.   Unauthorized breaks.
   GROUP I DISCIPLINE
   First Offense:   Verbal reprimand
   Second Offense:   Written reprimand
   Third Offense:   Three working days’ suspension without pay
   Fourth Offense:   Ten working days’ suspension without pay
   Fifth Offense:   Discharge
   GROUP II OFFENSES
(Examples of, but not limited to the following:)
1.   Leaving the job or work area during the regular working hours without
authorization.
2.   Threatening, intimidating, coercing, or interfering with subordinates or
other employees.
3.   Obligating the city for any expense, service, or performance without
authorization.
4.   Unauthorized sleeping during working hours.
5.   Reporting for work or working while unfit for duty.
6.   Unauthorized use of city property or equipment.
7.   Performing private work on city time.
8.   Failure to report for overtime work without good reason after being
scheduled to work according to overtime policy.
9.   Willful failure to make required reports.
10.   The making or publishing of false, vicious or malicious statements
concerning employees, supervisors, the city or its operations. Making
threatening remarks to supervisors or others.
11.   Refusing to provide testimony in court during an accident investigation,
or during any type of public hearing.
12.   Giving false testimony during a complaint or grievance investigation or
hearing.
13.   Unauthorized posting, removal, or alteration of notices or signs from
bulletin boards.
14.   Distributing or posting written or printed matter of any description on
city premises unless authorized.
15.   Unauthorized presence on city property.
16.   Willful disregard of department rules.
17.   Use of abusive or threatening language toward supervisors or other
employees.
18.   Excessive absenteeism.
19.   Failure to give medical certifications and/or physician’s excuse in a
timely manner.
20.   Failure to notify authorized personnel not later than one-half hour
before regular work starting time when unable to report to duty.
   GROUP II DISCIPLINE
   First Offense:      Three working days’ suspension without pay
   Second Offense:   Ten working days’ suspension without pay
   Third Offense:      Discharge
GROUP III OFFENSES
(Examples of, but not limited to the following.)
1.   Being in possession of, or drinking alcoholic beverages on the job.
2.   Neglect in the performance of assigned duties or in the care, use or
custody of any city property or equipment. Abuse, or deliberate destruction in
any manner of city property, tools, equipment, or the property of employees.
3.   Punching, signing or altering other employees time cards, time sheets or
unauthorized altering of own time card or sheet.
4.   Falsifying testimony when accidents are being investigated, falsifying or
assisting in falsifying or destroying any city records, including work
performance reports; or giving false information or withholding pertinent
information called for in making application for employment.
5.   Making false claims or misrepresentations in an attempt to obtain any city
benefit.
6.   Gambling as per Indiana law.
7.   Stealing or similar conduct, including destroying, damaging or concealing
any property of the city or of other employees.
8.   The use of controlled substances or the sale of controlled substances.
9.   Fighting or attempting to injure other employees, supervisors, or persons.
10.   Carrying or possession of firearms on City property at any time without
proper authorization.
11.   Knowingly concealing a communicable disease, which may endanger other
employees.
12.   Misuse or removal of city records or information without prior
authorization.
13.   Instigating, leading, or participating in any illegal walkout, strike,
sit down, stand-in, refusal to return to work at the scheduled time for the
scheduled shift, or other concerted curtailment, restriction or interference
with work in or about the city’s work stations.
14.   Dishonesty or any dishonest action. Some examples of what is meant by
“DISHONESTY” or “DISHONEST ACTION”" are: Theft, pilfering, opening desks
assigned to other employees without authorization, theft and pilfering through
lunch boxes, tool kits, or other property of the city or other employees
without authorization; inserting slugs in vending machines without paying the
proper charge therein; making false statements to secure an excused absence or
to justify an absence or tardiness; making or causing to be made, inaccurate or
false reports concerning any absence from work. The foregoing are examples only
and do not limit the terms “DISHONESTY” or “DISHONEST ACTION.”
15.   Insubordination by refusing to perform assigned work or to comply with
written or verbal instruction of the supervisors.
16.   An absence of more than one workday without notification of absence.
17.   Violating the city’s sexual harassment policy.
18.   Disclosure of confidential information.
19.   Failure to disclose at time of employment the past conviction of a
misdemeanor and/or felony, if reasonably related to the employee’s duties or
the public trust.
20.   Failure to submit to a blood test, urinalysis, or breathalyzer
examination, pursuant to the drug-free workplace policy.
21.   Failure to maintain required certifications required of the position.
22.   Failure to follow safety regulations when safety of an employee or others
is affected.
23.   Refusal to take or failure to pass any examination required for the job.
   GROUP III DISCIPLINE
   First Offense:   Any appropriate discipline, up to and including discharge.
PROBLEM RESOLUTION
§ 36.170 APPLICABILITY.
   The policies contained in this chapter and throughout the Greensburg
personnel policies handbook apply to all city employees, except when in direct
conflict with special employment conditions set forth by various statutes
governing employment relationships.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.171 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Employees and supervisors will benefit from a process that allows for
the free discussion of matters of mutual concern and effectively addresses
complaints on specific issues.
   (B)   These procedures provide for open discussion and speedy resolution of
issues of serious concern to any employee who thinks that the city’s policies
have been violated, or who believes that he or she has been treated unfairly. A
complaint is an employee’s expressed dissatisfaction with what that employee
believes, rightly or wrongly, to be unfair treatment, or a mistake in the
administration of a rule, plan, or city policy. This section does not apply to
disciplinary actions.
   (C)   When a complaint arises, it should be heard and resolved at the lowest
organizational level. The employee has the following procedure available.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.172 STEP 1: DEPARTMENT HEAD (ORAL COMPLAINT).
   If an employee has a complaint, it should be first discussed with the
supervisor. The employee should schedule a time to discuss the situation with
the supervisor. Every effort should be expended to resolve the issue
satisfactorily at this meeting.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.173 STEP 2: DEPARTMENT HEAD (WRITTEN COMPLAINT).
   If the complaint cannot be solved satisfactorily by the employee and
supervisor through discussion, or if the decision is not satisfactory, the
employee may reduce the complaint to writing. The employee may take or send the
written complaint to the supervisor.
Supervisors are encouraged to give a written response to the complaint when
warranted.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.174 STEP 3: MAYOR.
   If a satisfactory solution is not reached with the department head, a
complaint may be referred to the Mayor who will conduct an investigation into
the matter, meet with interested parties and make a decision. In the event that
the complaint involves the conduct of a department head, the employee may
submit a confidential letter to the Mayor. The Mayor will take appropriate
action as deemed necessary to investigate the complaint including use of third
party investigators.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
LEGAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 36.185 SEVERABILITY.
   The policies and procedures contained in this handbook are subject to all
applicable federal and states laws, city rules and regulations, and shall be
interpreted wherever possible so as to comply fully with such laws, provisions,
or any judicial interpretations. If a subchapter or section of this Handbook
shall be held invalid by operation of law or tribunal or competent
jurisdiction, or compliance with or enforcement of any subchapter or section of
this handbook shall be restrained by such tribunal, the remainder of this and
any amendments thereto shall not be affected and shall remain in full force and
effect. The city reserves the right to delete, modify, or amend the policies
contained herein or allocate new policies as needed.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.186 INDEMNIFICATION.
   In the event that a department head becomes a defendant, either in his or
her representative capacity or individually in any litigation arising out of
the administration to this policy, the city and/or its insurers shall defend
the department head of that action and pay any judgment entered in the action
provided by the city, so long as the department head has made a good faith
effort to comply with the terms and conditions set out in this handbook.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.187 ENABLING ORDINANCES.
   This personnel policies handbook shall be approved by ordinance by the
Greensburg Common Council.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
§ 36.188 AMENDMENTS.
   This handbook may be amended from time to time in substantially the same
form approved by the Greensburg Common Council. Any amendments shall be
distributed to each department of the city and shall be conspicuously posted
for at least 90 days throughout the offices of the city after their passage.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
APPENDIX: EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT FORM.
The City of Greensburg Personnel Policy Handbook describes important
information about employment with the City of Greensburg, and 1 understand that
1 should consult the Mayor regarding any question not answered in the handbook.
Since the information, policies, and benefits described here are necessarily
subject to change, I acknowledge that revisions to the handbook may occur. All
such changes will be communicated through official notices, and I understand
that revised information may supersede, modify, or eliminate existing policies.
I understand the descriptive materials contained in this handbook are only
summaries. Any discrepancies between these summaries and the terms of the
actual plans will be governed by the terms of the underlying, more detailed
policies and procedures. Any questions regarding summaries, their underlying
policies and procedures and any discrepancies between them should be directed
through your department head to the Mayor.
Furthermore, I acknowledge that this handbook is not a contract of employment.
I have received the handbook, and I understand that it is my responsibility to
read and comply with the policies contained in this handbook and any subsequent
revisions.
                                                                
Employee's signature       Date
                                    
Employee's name (typed or printed)
                                   
Office/department
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 1-7-19)
CHAPTER 37: PRECINCTS AND DISTRICTS
Section
   
37.01   Adoption of boundary lines for precincts
   
37.02   Designation of precincts
§ 37.01 ADOPTION OF BOUNDARY LINES FOR PRECINCTS.
   The Common Council for the city hereby adopts the following boundary lines
for precincts numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, respectively, which precinct
lines are described in Exhibits 1 through 8 attached to Ordinance No. 2003-3,
respectively, made a part hereof and incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 1992-23, passed 12-28-92; Am. Ord. 2003-3, passed 2-3-03)
§ 37.02 DESIGNATION OF PRECINCTS.
   (A)   District 1 for the city shall consist of Precinct 1 and Precinct 2.
   (B)   District 2 shall consist of Precinct 3 and Precinct 4.
   (C)   District 3 shall consist of Precinct 5 and Precinct 6.
   (D)   District 4 shall consist of Precinct 7 and Precinct 8.
   (E)   Each district enumerated above shall consist of the area established
by the precinct lines as indicated on Exhibits 1 through 8 attached to
Ordinance No. 2003-3, consistent with the new precinct lines being ordained and
adopted herein.
(Ord. 1992-23, passed 12-28-92; Am. Ord. 2003-3, passed 2-3-03)
CHAPTER 38: CITY POLICY
Section
Smoking in Public Places and Places of Employment
   
38.01     Definitions
   
38.02     Prohibition of smoking in public places and places of employment
   
38.03    Policies regarding smoking in places of employment
   
38.04     Reasonable distance
   
38.05     Where smoking is not regulated
   
38.06     Posting of signs; removing of paraphernalia
   
38.07     Enforcement and compliance
Fees
   
38.20     Fees for generation of maps, copying public records and related
documents
Internal Control Standards; Materiality
   
38.35   Internal Control Standards
   
38.36   Materiality Policy
Investment of Public Funds
   
38.50   Investment of public funds
Electronic Funds Transfers and Online Banking
   
38.60   Automated clearing house (ACH) transactions
   
38.61   Electronic funds transfers (EFT) including online transfers
   
38.62   Documentation
Purchasing Policy
   38.70   Purchases without federal involvement
   38.71   Purchases with federal involvement
 
   
38.99     Penalty
   
Appendix A:    Schedule A
   
Appendix B:    Schedule B
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following word and phrases, whenever used in this subchapter, shall be
construed as defined in this section.
   "BAR." An establishment that serves alcoholic beverages for consumption on
the premises, by guests who must be at least 21 years of age to enter the
premises, including but not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges,
and cabarets. The establishment may also give, serve, or provide food to those
guests, however, where there exists any part, portion, or area on the premises
that allows for guests who are not at least 18 years of age to enter the
premises, that establishment shall not fit the definition of a "bar".
   "BUSINESS." Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation
or other business entity formed for profit-making purposes, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold as well as professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural or other professional services are delivered.
   "EMPLOYEE." Any person who is employed by any employer for direct or
indirect monetary wages or profit, including those employed full-time, part-
time, on a temporary basis, or by contract through a third party.
   "EMPLOYER." Any person, partnership, corporation, including a municipal
corporation, or non-profit entity, which employs the services of one or more
individual persons.
   "ENCLOSED AREA." All space between a floor and ceiling which is enclosed on
all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of door or passage ways) which
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including all space therein screened by
partitions which do not extend to the ceiling or are not solid, "office
landscaping" or similar structures.
   "PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT." Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer which employees normally frequent during the course of
employment, including, but not limited to, work areas, private offices,
employee lounges and restrooms, conference and class rooms, employee cafeterias
and hallways. A private residence is not a "place of employment" unless it is
used as a childcare, adult day care or health care facility.
   "PRIVATE CLUB." A facility owned or operated by an association or
corporation, which shall:
      (1)   Not be operated for pecuniary gain;
      (2)   Registered under state law;
      (3)   Determined by the Internal Revenue Service to be operating under
not-for-profit status; and
      (4)   Consist of a membership:
         (a)   Formed as a lodge, local chapter, or corresponding unit of a
fraternal order recognized on a national basis;
         (b)   Comprised of persons who have served in the armed forces of the
United States; or
         (c)   Formed as a recognized, exclusive association of persons
organized for a joint or common purpose for which application for membership,
the payment of dues, and self governance by the membership are distinguishing
characteristics, and, where entry into, and use of the facility is restricted
to members and guests of members.
   "PUBLIC PLACE." Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including but not limited to banks, educational
facilities, health facilities, laundromats, public transportation facilities,
reception areas, restaurants, retail food production and marketing
establishments, retail service establishments, retail stores, theaters and
waiting rooms. A private residence is not a "public place."
   "RESTAURANT." Any coffee shop, cafeteria, sandwich stand, private and public
school cafeteria, and any other eating establishment which gives or offers for
sale of food to the public, guests, or employees, as well as kitchens in which
food is prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere, including catering
facilities. The term "RESTAURANT" shall include a bar area within the
restaurant.
   "RETAIL TOBACCO STORE." A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental. The term does not include retail stores where food or
beverages are sold for consumption on the premises or where an area has been
set aside on the premises for customers to consume food or beverages.
   "SERVICE LINE." Any indoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for
or receiving service of any kind, whether or not such service involves the
exchange of money.
   "SMOKING." The carrying or holding of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or
any other lighted smoking equipment, or the inhalation or exhalation of smoke
from any lighted smoking equipment. "SMOKING" does not include the burning of
incense.
   "SPORTS ARENA." Sports pavilions, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing arenas,
swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys and other similar places
where members of the general public assemble either to engage in physical
exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness sports events.
(Ord. 2006-9, passed 8-7-06)
§ 38.02 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, smoking shall be
prohibited in the following public places and places of employment, including,
but not limited to, the following areas:
      (1)   Elevators;
      (2)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways and any other common-
use areas;
      (3)   Buses, taxicabs, and other means of public transit under the
authority of the city, and ticket, boarding, and waiting areas of public
transit depots;
      (4)   Service lines;
      (5)   Retail stores;
      (6)   All areas available to and customarily used by the general public
in all businesses and nonprofit entities patronized by the public;
      (7)   Restaurants;
      (8)   Public areas of aquariums, galleries, libraries, and museums;
      (9)   Any facility which is primarily used for exhibiting any motion
picture, stage, drama, lecture, musical recital or other similar performance,
except performers when smoking is part of a theatrical production;
      (10)   Sports arenas and convention halls;
      (11)   Every room, chamber, place of meeting or public assembly,
including school buildings under the control of any board, council, commission,
committee, including joint committees, or agencies of the city or any political
subdivision of the state during such time as a public meeting is in progress,
to the extent such place is subject to the jurisdiction of the city;
      (12)   Hospitals, clinics, physical therapy facilities, doctors' offices,
and dentists' offices;
      (13)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
      (14)   Polling places; and
      (15)   Private functions in other public places like restaurants, hotels,
and motels.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, any owner,
operator, manager or other person who controls any establishment or facility
may declare that entire establishment or facility as a nonsmoking
establishment.
(Ord. 2006-9, passed 8-7-06; Am. Ord. 2008-1-1, passed 2-4-08) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.03 POLICIES REGARDING SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of employers to provide a smoke-free
workplace for all employees, but employers are not required to incur any
expense to make structural or other physical modifications.
   (B)   Within 90 days of the adoption of this subchapter, each employer
having an enclosed place of employment located within the city shall adopt,
implement, and comply with the smoking ordinance that shall contain the
following requirements: Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed facilities
within a place of employment. This includes common work areas, auditoriums,
classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, private offices, elevators, hallways,
medical facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs, restrooms, and all
other enclosed facilities.
   (C)   The smoking ordinance shall be communicated to all employees.
   (D)   All employers shall supply a written copy of the smoking ordinance
upon request to any existing or prospective employee.
(Ord. 2006-9, passed 8-7-06)
§ 38.04 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking shall be prohibited within a reasonable distance of any entrance to
a public place so as to insure that tobacco smoke does not enter the area
through entrances, windows, ventilation systems or any other means. It shall be
a violation for smoke to be detected in any area where smoking is prohibited.
(Ord. 2006-9, passed 8-7-06) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.05 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall not be subject to the smoking restrictions of this
subchapter:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult
day care, or health care facility.
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; provided, however, that not more than 25% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated. The status of rooms as smoking
or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to add additional nonsmoking rooms.
   (C)   Retail tobacco stores; provided that smoke from these places does not
infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (D)   Bars.
   (E)   Outdoor areas of places of employment.
   (F)   Private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed in a room where smoking is
permitted; provided that smoke from these places does not infiltrate into areas
where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this subchapter, and
providing that the operator of such facility has agreed to allow smoking on the
premises upon receiving such request.
   (G)   Private clubs.
(Ord. 2006-9, passed 8-7-06; Am. Ord. 2008-1-1, passed 2-4-08)
§ 38.06 POSTING OF SIGNS; REMOVING OF PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   "No Smoking" signs or the international "No Smoking" symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly, sufficiently and
conspicuously posted in every building or other area where smoking is
prohibited by this subchapter, by the owner, operator, manager or other person
having control of such building or other area.
   (B)   Every public place where smoking is prohibited by this chapter shall
have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking
is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from any
area where smoking is prohibited by this subchapter by the owner, operator,
manager or other person having control of such area.
(Ord. 2006-9, passed 8-7-06) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.07 ENFORCEMENT AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint and designate a city department(s), and/or
employees to enforce this subchapter (Smoking Ordinance).
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under the Smoking
Ordinance may initiate enforcement with the city department(s) and/or employees
as designated by the Mayor.
   (C)   The City Fire Department, or their designees shall, while in an
establishment performing otherwise legal inspections, shall inspect for
compliance with the Smoking Ordinance.
   (D)   Owners, managers, operators or employees of establishments regulated
by the Smoking Ordinance shall inform persons seen violating the Smoking
Ordinance of the requirements of the Smoking Ordinance. In the event an owner,
manager, operator or employee of an establishment regulated by the Smoking
Ordinance observes a person or persons violating the Smoking Ordinance, he or
she shall immediately direct the person or persons in violation to extinguish
the item being smoked.
   (E)   In the event the person(s) violating the Smoking Ordinance complies
with this directive, no violation shall exist for the owner, manager, operator
or employee witnessing the violation. In the event an owner, manager, operator
or employee of an establishment regulated by the Smoking Ordinance observes a
person or persons violating the Smoking Ordinance and fails to immediately
direct the person(s) in violation to extinguish the item being smoked, the
owner, manager, operator or employee failing to take appropriate steps required
by the Smoking Ordinance shall be in violation of the Smoking Ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the person(s) violating the Smoking Ordinance fails or
refuses to comply with this directive or refuses to leave the premises, the
owner, manager, operator or employee directing the person(s) violating the
Smoking Ordinance shall take immediate and reasonable steps to obtain the
removal of the person(s) from the premises. In the event the person(s)
violating the Smoking Ordinance is timely removed from the premises, no
violation shall exist for any owner, manager, operator or employee related to
the establishment in which these events occurred. In no event is an owner or
agent of the premises to forcibly remove the person violating the Smoking
Ordinance. Compliance is achieved under this division if the owner or agent of
the premises orders the person violating the Smoking Ordinance to leave its
premises and promptly notifies the police if the person refuses.
   (G)   In the event the person(s) violating the Smoking Ordinance fails or
refuses to comply with this directive and the owner, manager, operator or
employee who observed the violation or if a different person who directed the
person(s) in violation to leave the premises, fails to take immediate and
reasonable steps to obtain the removal of the person(s) from the premises, the
owner, manager, operator or employee failing to take appropriate steps required
by the Smoking Ordinance shall be in violation of the Smoking Ordinance.
   (H)   In all events, the establishment in which a violation occurs shall be
in violation of the Smoking Ordinance for each violation that occurs on its
premises and in connection with which the owner, manager, operator or employee
fail to take appropriate steps required by the Smoking Ordinance.
   (I)   In the event all duties required under this section are satisfied yet
the person violating the Smoking Ordinance persists in his or her violation
and/or refuses to vacate the premises on which the violation occurred, the
owner, manager, supervisor and/or employee shall immediately contact one or
more of the agencies or departments authorized above to enforce the Smoking
Ordinance informing the agency or department of the circumstances of the
violation.
   (J)   The mere presence of a person smoking within premises of an
establishment governed by the Smoking Ordinance does not constitute a violation
on the part of the establishment. The establishment and its agents shall only
be charged for a violation of the Smoking Ordinance if the responsible agent(s)
of the establishment fail to timely satisfy each responsibility prescribed for
them in this section.
   (K)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Smoking Ordinance, the
city, an employee, or any person aggrieved by a failure to comply with the
Smoking Ordinance, whether by commission or omission, including violations on
the part of an owner, operator, manager, employee or other person(s) in control
of a public place or a place of employment covered by the Smoking Ordinance may
bring legal action to enforce the Smoking Ordinance, in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 8-7-06)
FEES
§ 38.20 FEES FOR GENERATION OF MAPS, COPYING PUBLIC RECORDS AND RELATED
DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council hereby establishes the Electronic Map Generation Fund
and the Enhanced Access Fund for all public record fees for the Sewer
Department, Water Department and all other fees collected for the city with the
exception of the Police Department. Fees collected under this section for
providing electronic map generation and copying public records shall be
deposited into these funds.
   (B)   Money in the Electronic Map Generation Fund shall be administered by
the GIS Coordinator. Money in the Enhanced Access Fund shall be administered by
the City Clerk or the Water Office Manager. All receipts from the Sewer
Department and Water Department collected pursuant to this section shall be
deposited in the Sewer Department funds and Water Department funds,
respectively. All other fees collected pursuant to this section, with exception
of the Police Department, shall be deposited with the funds of the Civil City
of Greensburg, Indiana. Any fees collected pursuant to a contract for
electronic map generation or copying records shall be deposited into their
appropriate fund. Money in these funds shall be appropriated as approved by the
Board of Works and may be used for the replacement, improvement, and expansion
of capital expenditures, or the reimbursement of operating expenses incurred in
providing the electronic map generation and or the copying of public records.
   (C)   All city offices are authorized to charge the fees as set forth in
Appendix A: Schedule A.
   (D)   For the production of a printed map which requires GIS Manager or the
Manager's designee to assemble data sets or complete specific analysis
requests, a fee is established of $15 per hour, to be billed in increments of
one-quarter hour with a minimum fee of $3.75. This fee is in addition to the
fee for the printed map.
   (E)   Payment for the electronic generated maps or for copies under this
section shall be made prior to the receiving of said maps or copies. A person
requesting information to be provided by mail must also pay all postage or
shipping cost. All requests for electronic generated maps or for copies
pursuant to this section shall be made in writing on the form provided by the
city or the respective department of the city to whom the request is made. Said
form follows as
Appendix B: Schedule B.
   (F)   A person who receives information or maps from the city electronic map
generation or public record copies may not use the information for commercial
purposes, including selling, advertising, or soliciting the purchase of
merchandise, goods, or services, or sell, loan, giving away, or otherwise
delivering the information to any other person for these purposes. A person who
uses information in a manner contrary to this section may be prohibited from
obtaining any further data.
   (G)   In the event the fees or other provisions of this section are in
conflict with state law, the state law shall apply.
   (H)   The information on maps prepared from a Geographic Information System
was established by the city for their internal purposes only, and was not
designed or intended for general use by members of the public. City employees,
agents and personnel make no representation or warranty as to its accuracy, and
in particular, its accuracy as to labeling, dimensions, contours, property
boundaries, or placement of location of any map features thereon; or to the
accuracy of any other information contained thereon.
(Ord. 2006-21, passed 9-5-06)
Penalty, see § 38.99
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS; MATERIALITY
§ 38.35 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The city adopts as policy the Internal Control Standards as set forth by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and published by the Indiana
State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from time to time.
In order to implement these standards, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify in
writing that personnel as defined in statute have received the required
training. All officers, elected officials and employees are required to comply
with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this policy are subject to
discipline, including but not limited to termination of their employment.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 6-6-16)
§ 38.36 MATERIALITY POLICY.
   (A)   Any public official, department head, or employee with actual
knowledge or reasonable cause to believe that there has been a misappropriation
of public funds is to immediately send written notice of the misappropriation
to the State Board of Accounts and the Prosecuting Attorney, regardless of the
amount.
   (B)   The materiality threshold at which point the city shall report
incidents of material variances, losses, shortages, to the State Board of
Accounts is:
      (1)   A one-time cash loss of at least $200;
      (2)   A recurring cash loss of at least $200 average per month;
      (3)   A value of $200 for a one-time loss of assets; or
      (4)   A creation of additional liabilities of at least $1,000 average per
month.
   (C)   When an irregular variance, loss, shortage, or theft is determined
material pursuant to the city’s policy on materiality, the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall report the incident to the State Board of Accounts. On the State Board of
Account’s website there is a notification link, which allows public officials
to report via e-mail material irregular variances, losses, shortages, or
thefts. Telephone and in-person reporting is also acceptable. Reports will be
followed up with a return e-mail or call to gather additional information as
necessary. All reports of irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts are
maintained by the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2016-009, passed 6-6-16)
INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
§ 38.50 INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   Pursuant to IC 5-13-9-5.7, the Common Council of the city hereby authorizes
the investing officer to make investments having a stated final maturity that
is more than two years, but not more than five years after the date of purchase
under the following circumstances:
   (A)   The fiscal body of the city shall first adopt an investment policy
allowing for the adoption of an ordinance authorizing the investment of public
funds of the city for more than two years and not more than five years in
accordance with IC 5-13-9-5.7(a) and (b).
   (B)   This subchapter and the power to make an investment having a stated
final maturity that is more than two years, but not more than five years after
the date of purchase expire on the date on which the investment policy expires,
which may not exceed four years.
   (C)   At the time of investment of public funds of the city is made having a
stated final maturity that is more than two years, but not more than five
years, the total of such investments of the city may not exceed 25% of the
total portfolio of public funds invested by the city, including balances in
transaction accounts.
   (D)   An investing officer may contract with a federally regulated
investment advisor or other institutional money manager to make such
investments.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 7-1-19)
ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING
§ 38.60 AUTOMATED CLEARING HOUSE (ACH) TRANSACTIONS.
   ACH transactions are hereby authorized for the Clerk Treasurer. “ACH
TRANSACTIONS” are defined as any electronic fund transaction utilizing the
automated clearing house electronic system for authorized fiscal transactions.
ACH transactions include, but are not necessarily limited to, making payment
such as employee payroll, bond payments, recurring monthly vendor payments;
receiving payments and all other transactions authorized for electronic fund
transfer under federal or state law.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed - -22)
§ 38.61 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS (EFT) INCLUDING ONLINE TRANSFERS.
   The Common Council of the city authorizes the use of online or electronic
fund transfers for the purpose of reallocating funds as necessary between
various banking accounts, including, but not necessarily limited to the general
account, the airport account, and other necessary accounts as required by the
Clerk to effectuate payment and proper processing of expenditures, payroll,
claims, and receipts.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed - -22)
§ 38.62 DOCUMENTATION.
   The Clerk Treasurer is required to maintain adequate documentation of the
above referenced transactions for future audits, as provided by law.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed - -22)
PURCHASING POLICY
§ 38.70 PURCHASES WITHOUT FEDERAL INVOLVEMENT.
   For purchasing with no federal involvement, the city will follow state law
outlined in IC 5-22 et seq., as well as any other applicable State provisions.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 5-14-24)
§ 38.71 PURCHASES WITH FEDERAL INVOLVEMENT.
   For purchasing involving federal funds or federal oversight, the following
procedure shall be followed:
   (A)   The city will maintain records sufficient to detail the history of
procurement. These records will include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Rationale for the method of procurement;
      (2)   Selection of contract type;
      (3)   Contractor selection or rejection; and
      (4)   The basis for the contract price.
   (B)   Informal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement for
property or services under a federal award does not exceed the simplified
acquisition threshold (SAT), as defined by Federal law, formal procurement
methods are not required. The city may use informal procurement methods to
expedite the completion of its transactions and minimize the associated
administrative burden and cost. The informal methods used for procurement of
property or services at or below the SAT include:
      (1)   Micro-purchases.
         (a)   Distribution. The acquisition of supplies or services, the
aggregate dollar amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold
established by federal law. To the maximum extent practicable, the city should
distribute micro-purchases equitably among qualified suppliers.
         (b)   Micro-purchase awards. Micro-purchases may be awarded without
soliciting competitive price or rate quotations if the city considers the price
to be reasonable based on research, experience, purchase history or other
information and documents it files accordingly.
         (c)   Micro-purchase thresholds. The city adopts the federally-
determined threshold for micro purchases, reserving the right to increase the
threshold based on an evaluation of risk.
         (d)   If the city decides on a threshold above the federal standard,
the city must include any of the following:
            1.   A qualification as a low-risk auditee, in accordance with the
federally-set criteria for the most recent audit;
            2.   An annual internal institutional risk assessment to identify,
mitigate, and manage financial risks; or
            3.   For public institutions, a higher threshold consistent with
state law.
         (e)   If the city increases the micro-purchase threshold over $50,000,
it must be approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. The city must
submit a request with all federal requirements. The increased threshold is
valid until there is a change in status in which the justification was
approved.
      (2)   Small purchases.
         (a)   Small purchase procedures. The acquisition of property or
services, the aggregate dollar amount of which is higher than the micro-
purchase threshold but does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
Price or rate quotations must be obtained from an adequate number of qualified
sources as determined appropriate by the City Council.
         (b)   Simplified acquisition thresholds. The city adopts the federal
simplified acquisition threshold.
      (3)   Formal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement for
property or services under a federal financial assistance award exceeds the
SAT, formal procurement methods are required. Formal procurement methods
require following documented procedures. Formal procurement methods also
require public advertising unless a non-competitive procurement can be used in
accordance with Federal law. The following formal methods of procurement are
used for procurement of property or services above the simplified acquisition
threshold or a value below the simplified acquisition threshold:
         (a)   Sealed bids. Bids shall be publicly solicited, and a firm fixed-
price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded to the responsible bidder
whose bid, conforming with all the material terms and conditions of the
invitation for bids, is the lowest in price.
         (b)   Sealed bids applicability. Sealed bids will be used when the
following conditions are present:
            1.   A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or purchase
description;
            2.   Two or more responsible bidders are willing and able to
compete effectively for the business; and
            3.   A firm fixed price contract and the selection of the
successful bidder can be made principally on the basis of price.
         (c)   If sealed bids are used, the following requirements apply:
            1.   Bids must be solicited from an adequate number of qualified
sources, providing them sufficient response time prior to the date set for
opening the bids, for local, and tribal governments, the invitation for bids
must be publicly advertised;
            2.   The invitation for bids, which will include any specifications
and pertinent attachments, must define the items or services in order for the
bidder to properly respond;
            3.   All bids will be opened at the time and place prescribed in
the invitation for bids, and for local and tribal governments, the bids must be
opened publicly;
            4.   A firm fixed price contract award will be made in writing to
the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Where specified in bidding
documents, factors such as discounts, transportation cost, and life cycle costs
must be considered in determining which bid is lowest. Payment discounts will
only be used to determine the low bid when prior experience indicates that such
discounts are usually taken advantage of; and
            5.   Any or all bids may be rejected if there is a sound documented
reason.
         (d)   Proposals. A procurement method in which either a fixed price or
cost-reimbursement type contract is awarded. Proposals are generally used when
conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed bids. They are awarded in
accordance with the following requirements:
            1.   Requests for proposals must be publicized and identify all
evaluation factors and their relative importance. Proposals must be solicited
from an adequate number of qualified offerors. Any response to publicized
requests for proposals must be considered to the maximum extent practical;
            2.   The city will hire experts to provide technical evaluations of
the proposals received and advice making selections;
            3.   Contracts must be awarded to the responsible offeror whose
proposal is most advantageous to the city, with price and other factors
considered; and
            4.   The city may use competitive proposal procedures for
qualifications-based procurement of architectural/engineering (A/E)
professional services whereby offeror's qualifications are evaluated, and the
most qualified offeror is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and
reasonable compensation. The method, where price is not used as a selection
factor, can only be used in procurement of A/E professional services. It cannot
be used to purchase other types of services through A/E firms that are a
potential source to perform the proposed effort.
      (4)   Noncompetitive procurement. There are specific circumstances in
which noncompetitive procurement can be used. Noncompetitive procurement can
only be awarded if one or more of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The acquisition of property or services, the aggregate dollar
amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold;
         (b)   The item is available only from a single source;
         (c)   The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not
permit a delay resulting from publicizing a competitive solicitation;
         (d)   The federal awarding agency or pass-through entity expressly
authorizes a noncompetitive procurement in response to a written request from
the city; or
         (e)   After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is
determined inadequate.
   (C)   The city shall conduct procurements in a manner that prohibits the use
of statutorily or administratively imposed state, local, or tribal geographical
preferences in the evaluation of bids or proposals, except in those cases where
applicable federal statutes expressly mandate or encourage geographic
preference.
   (D)   When contracting for architectural and engineering (A/E) services,
geographic location may be a selection criterion provided its application
leaves an appropriate number of qualified firms, given the nature and size of
the project, to compete for the contract.
   (E)   The city will follow procedures outlined in CFR 180.300, particularly
that it will verify that the person with whom the city intends to do business
is not excluded or disqualified, by checking:
      (1)   SAM exclusions;
      (2)   Collecting a certification from that person; or
      (3)   Adding a clause or condition to the covered transaction with that
person.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 5-14-24)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, operates or
otherwise controls the use of any premises subject to regulation under §§
38.01 et seq. to fail to comply with any of its provisions.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, operates or
otherwise controls the use of any premises subject to regulation under §§
38.01 et seq. to knowingly or willfully allow smoking to occur where prohibited
by this chapter. It is a defense to this section, if the foregoing persons or
their employees act in a reasonable and timely manner to personally inform the
violator of the prohibition and request that he or she refrain from smoking.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any area where smoking
is prohibited by the provisions of the ordinance codified in §§
38.01 et seq.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
38.01 et seq. shall be subject to a fine of $50 for each finding of a violation
of this chapter. If, after multiple violations by the same person or at the
same business, the city legal department has reason to believe that the fines
will not be effective in enforcing §§
38.01 et seq., then the city legal department shall be empowered to seek any
other remedies provided by law.
   (E)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of §§
38.01 et seq. shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $50 for a first violation.
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a second violation within one year.
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $200 for each additional violation within one
year.
(Ord. 2006-9, passed 8-7-06)
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE A.
Schedule of GIS Map and Data Products
The City of Greensburg will provide hard copy maps produced from its GIS and
Digital GIS data for a fee. Fees are based on the costs to produce the
requested information. The City of Greensburg Ordinance #      establishes fees
for providing electronic maps and electronic databases.
Data Disclaimer
All GIS and electronic database materials, and any services which may be
provided related thereto, are provided "as-is" without any warranty of any
kind, and all warranties on merchantability and fitness for a particular
purpose are hereby disclaimed. In no event shall City of Greensburg be liable
to the recipient or any other party for damages of any type, including but not
limited to incidental, consequential or exemplary damages arising out of the
use or inability to use these materials. The law of Indiana, where any
litigation arising hereunder shall take place, shall govern this agreement. The
agreement is the complete and exclusive statement of the agreement between the
parties and may be modified only by a written agreement.
Schedule of Fees
   GIS Hard Copy Maps
      Custom Map Fees
   Digital Data
      Digital GIS Data Cd's
      Aerial Photography Image Data Cd's
      Electronic Data Reports
   Other Rate Information
      Custom Rates
      Media Costs
      Additional Fees
GIS Hard Copy Maps
Section 1: Custom Map Fees
1.1   GIS Maps
The following fees apply to printing cartographic maps. The City of Greensburg
GIS Office has a list of available layers for printing.
Printer Type Plot Size Priced / Layer
Printer Type       Plot Size    Priced / Layer
B/W Inkjet Printer 8-1/2" x 11" $ 0.75 / map
B/W Inkjet Printer 11" x 14"    $ 1.25 / map
B/W Inkjet Printer 11" x 17"    $ 1.50 / map
B/W Inkjet Printer 18" X 24"    $ 2.50 / map
Color Inkjet       8-1/2" x 11" $ 1.50 / map
Color Inkjet       11" x 14"    $ 2.50 / map
Color Inkjet       11" x 17"    $ 3.00 / map
Color Inkjet       18" X 24"    $ 5.00 / map
Plotter            18" x 24"    $ 7.00 / map
Plotter            24" x 36"    $ 14.00 / map
Plotter            36" x 42"    $ 24.50 / map
Plotter            36" x 48"    $ 28.00 / map
Plotter            42" x 48"    $ 32.50 / map
 
Specialized Hard Copy Map Fees
1.2   Standard GIS Maps
Any non-standard graphics, symbolization, or spatial analysis will be an
additional cost based on an hourly rate. GIS maps are created to order in any
of sizes and scales that can be produced by the City of Greensburg Software.
The City will apply actual cost to any item shipped.
1.3   Custom Map Service Fees
 
Staff Position             Hourly Rate
GIS Coordinator            $15.00
GIS Database Administrator $15.00
 
Digital Data
Section 2: Digital Map Fees
2.1   CD-ROM Data Sets
GIS Vector Data
City of Greensburg publishes its GIS data on CD-ROM in the following formats.
 
Vector CD-ROM Data           Files (Size)  CD's Price
GIS Base Map- Shape Format   250 MB        1    $30.00
GIS Base Map- DXF/DWG Format 250 MB        1    $30.00
Custom GIS Data              250 up to 750 1    $45.00
Shape, DXF/DWG Format        MB
 
List of map data layers included on each CC are in Section 4
Aerial Photography Image Data
The following archived image data is available in CD-ROM sets. The digital
ortho Photo CD's also includes coordinate files.
 
Image CD-ROM Data                                 Files (Size) CD's Price
2002 Digital Ortho Photos – lft. Pixels Mr. Sid 250 MB       1    $500.00
Format
2002 Digital Ortho Photos – lft. Pixels         8.57 GB      13   $500.00
 
2.2   Custom Digital Map Data:
The Following fees will apply to custom requests for City of Greensburg digital
GIS data.
 
Item                          Fee       Format
Custom Digital Layer Creation 1 hr min. Any format that can be reproduced by
                                        the City of Greensburg software
Media Cost                    See Services & Media Schedule
Custom Rate Cost              See Services & Media Schedule
 
2.3   Custom Image Data:
The following fees apply to City of Greensburg archived aerial photography
images at a per image basis. Image data is in TIFF format. Digital Ortho Photo
images come with coordinate files.
 
Item                      Cost
2002 Digital Ortho- Photo $9.00
Media Cost                $1.00
 
2.4   Electronic Database & Reports
Custom hourly rates will apply on requests for electronic data or reports
requiring custom queries or technical staff hours in addition to media costs. A
$5.00 per order processing fee will be accessed per order.
Other Rate Information
Section 3: Services & Media
3.1   Custom Service Rates
Rates are applied by the quarter hour with a minimum of 1 hour.
 
Staff Position             Hourly Rate
GIS Coordinator            $15.00
GIS Database Administrator $15.00
 
3.2   Media Cost
 
Item         Cost
3-1/2 Floppy $.60
CD-ROM       $1.00
 
3.3   Additional Fees
Shipping Cost: Actual Cost
The City of Greensburg will quote prices for other electronic data records not
detailed in schedule based on hourly Custom Rate and any direct costs
associated with program development or passed on from third party consultants.
The City of Greensburg reserves the right to refuse requests for electronic
data products or services that may unreasonably interfere with ongoing
operations of the City by requiring an inordinate diversion of City's manpower,
materials, or equipment use or would necessitate utilization of an outside
contractor.
Digital Data Layers
Layer Available Digital Data CD
       Available Formats
Layers Shape File Format DXF or DWG Format
                     Available Formats
Layers               Shape File Format DXF or DWG Format
Zoning Boundaries    Yes               Yes
Municipal Boundaries Yes               Yes
Hydrology            Yes               Yes
Railroad Centerlines Yes               Yes
Road Centerlines     Yes               Yes
Storm Water          Yes               Yes
Water                Yes               Yes
Waste Water          Yes               Yes
 
Map Data Layers
Section 4: Data Categories
4.1   Base Map Layers
Standard Map Layers available for development of Base Map
 
Layers      Description
Pavement    Edge of Pavement
Rail        Rail Centerlines
Centerlines Roadway Centerlines / Address Ranges
Bridge      Bridges & Culverts
City Limits Greensburg City Limits
 
4.2   Custom Map Layers
Custom Map Layers available for addition to Base Map (4.2 thru 4.8)
 
Layers            Description
Aerial Imagery    2002 Ortho Photos
Buildings         Buildings
Drives            Drives & Parking Lots
Parcels           Parcels
Public Facilities Public Buildings & Facilities
Zoning            Zoning Districts
 
4.3   Environmental Map Layers
 
Layers       Description
Floodplains  Floodplain Boundaries (FEMA)
Streams      Rivers & Streams
Water Bodies Lakes & Ponds
Wet Lands    National Wetlands Inventory
 
4.4   Planning Map Layers
Layers Description
Layers               Description
Adams Quad Map       Adams U.S.G.S. Quadrangle Map
Block Groups         Census Block Group Boundaries
Census Tracks        Census Track Boundaries
Forest Hill Quad Map Forest Hill U.S.G.S. Quadrangle Map
Greensburg Quad Map  Greensburg U.S.G.S Quadrangle map
Milroy Quad Map      Milroy U.S.G.S. Quadrangle Map
PLSS - Sections      Public Land Survey Grid Sections
Soils                General Soil Boundaries – State Soil Database
 
4.5   Transportation Map Layers
 
Layers           Description
Bridges          Bridges and Culverts
Centerlines      Roadway Centerlines and Address Ranges
Pavement         Edge of Pavement
Rail             Rail Centerlines
Street Condition Default Street Condition Layer
Street Projects  Default Street Projects Layer
 
4.6   Utilities (Sanitary) Map Layers
 
Layers        Description
Cleanouts     Sanitary Cleanouts
Laterals      Sanitary Laterals
Lift Stations Lift Stations
Mains         Sanitary Mains
Manholes      Sanitary Manholes
 
4.7   Utilities (Storm) Map Layers
Layers Description
Layers          Description
Catch Basins    Storm Sewer Catch Basins
Cisterns        Storm Sewer Cisterns
Culverts        Storm Sewer Culverts
Detention Ponds Storm Sewer Detention Ponds
Ditches         Storm Sewer Ditches
Drains          Storm Sewer Drains
Outfalls        Storm Sewer Outfalls
Retention Ponds Storm Sewer Retention Ponds
Storm Mains     Storm Sewer Mains
Storm Manholes  Storm Sewer Manholes
 
4.8   Utilities (Water) Map Layers
Layers Description
Layers        Description
Facilities    Building and Facilities
Hydrants      Water Hydrants
Meter Pits    Water Meter Pits
Service Lines Water Service Lines
Tanks         Water Tanks
Valves        Water Valves
Water Mains   Water Mains
Wells         Water Wells
 
4.9   Copies of Public Records
 
B/W Copy   $0.05
Color Copy $0.12
 
APPENDIX B: SCHEDULE B.
 
MAP ORDER FORM
 
Standard GIS Maps
Any non-standard graphics, symbolization, or spatial analysis will be an
additional cost based on an hourly rate. GIS maps are created to order in any
of sizes and scales that can be produced by the City of Greensburg Software.
The City will apply actual cost to any item shipped.
Custom Service Rates: Rates are applied by the quarter hour with a minimum of 1
hour ($15.00)
Printer Type Plot Size Basic Map Number of Copies
Printer Type       Plot Size    Basic Map    Number of Copies
B/W Inkjet Printer 8 1/2" x 11" $0.75 / map
B/W Inkjet Printer 11" x 14"    $1.25 / map
B/W Inkjet Printer 11" x 17"    $1.50 / map
Color Inkjet       8 1/2" x 11" $1.50 /map
Color Inkjet       11" x 14"    $2.50 / map
Color Inkjet       11" x 17"    $3.00 / map
Plotter            18" x 24"    $7.00 / map
Plotter            24" x 36"    $14.00 / map
Plotter            36" x 42"    $24.50 / map
Plotter            36" x 48"    $28.00 / map
Plotter            42" x 48"    $32.50 / map
 
Base Map Layers
 
Layers      Description                        Check Layers Needed
Pavement    Edge of Pavement
Rail        Rail Center Lines
Centerlines Roadway Centerlines/Address Ranges
Bridge      Bridges & Culverts
City Limits Greensburg City Limits
 
Custom Map Layers
 
Layers            Description                   Check Layers Needed
Aerial Imagery    2002 Ortho Photos
Buildings         Buildings
Drives            Drives & Parking Lots
Parcels           Parcels
Public Facilities Public Buildings & Facilities
Zoning            Zoning Districts
 
Utilities (Sanitary) Map Layers
 
Layers        Description        Check Layers Needed
Cleanouts     Sanitary Cleanouts
Laterals      Sanitary Laterals
Lift Stations Lift Stations
Mains         Sanitary Mains
Manholes      Sanitary Manholes
 
Utilities (Storm) Map Layers
Layers Description Check Layers Needed
Layers          Description                 Check Layers Needed
Catch Basins    Storm Sewer Catch Basins
Cisterns        Storm Sewer Cisterns
Culverts        Storm Sewer Culverts
Detention Ponds Storm Sewer Detention Ponds
Ditches         Storm Sewer Ditches
Drains          Storm Sewer Drains
Outfalls        Storm Sewer Outfalls
Retention Ponds Storm Sewer Retention Ponds
Storm Mains     Storm Sewer Mains
Storm Manholes  Storm Sewer Manholes
 
Utilities (Water) Map Layers
Layers Description Check Layers Needed
Layers        Description           Check Layers Needed
Facilities    Building & Facilities
Hydrants      Water Hydrants
Meter Pits    Water Meter Pits
Service Lines Water Service Lines
Tanks         Water Tanks
Valves        Water Valves
Water Mains   Water Mains
Wells         Water Wells
 
Environmental Map Layers
 
Layers       Description                 Check Layers Needed
Floodplains  Floodplain Boundaries
Streams      Rivers & Streams
Water Bodies Lakes & Ponds
Wetlands     National Wetlands Inventory
 
Planning Map Layers
Layers Description Check Layers Needed
Layers               Description                      Check Layers Needed
Adams Quad Map       Adams U.S.G.S. Quadrangle
Block Groups         Census Block Group Boundaries
Census Tracks        Census Track Boundaries
Forest Hill Quad Map Forest Hill U.S.G.S. Quadrangle
Greensburg Quad Map  Greensburg U.S.G.S Quadrangle
Milroy Quad Map      Milroy U.S.G.S. Quadrangle
PLSS—Sections      Public Land Survey Grid Sections
Soils                General Soil Boundaries
 
Transportation Map Layers
 
Layers           Description                   Check Layers Needed
Bridges          Bridges and Culverts
Centerlines      Roadway Centerlines
Pavement         Edge of Pavement
Rail             Rail Centerlines
Street Condition Default Street Condition
Street Projects  Default Street Project Layers
 
If you have any questions, please contact Jeff Steele at 812-663-2138.
Total Amount Due:                  
Amount Paid:                
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
51.   WATER
      
52. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Purpose and policy
   
50.002   Administration
   
50.003   Abbreviations
   
50.004   Definitions
   
50.005   General rules
   
50.006   Private sewage disposal
   
50.007   Prohibited discharge standards
   
50.008   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
50.009   State pretreatment standards
   
50.010   Local limits
   
50.011   City's right of revision
   
50.012   Dilution
   
50.013   Sewer service to unincorporated areas
Building Sewers
   
50.020   Connection permits
   
50.021   Building sewer requirements
Rates, Charges, and Billing
   
50.030   Definitions
   
50.031   User class charges
   
50.032   Rates and charges
   
50.033   Rates for discharge into the sewage system
   
50.034   Billing procedure
   
50.035   Sewage studies
   
50.036   Granting of free service
   
50.037   Enforcement of regulations
   
50.038   Appeals
   
50.039   Special rate contracts
   
50.040   Review of financial condition of utilities
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
50.045   Pretreatment facilities
   
50.046   Additional pretreatment measures
   
50.047   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans
   
50.048   Hauled wastewater
Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
   
50.060   Wastewater analysis
   
50.061   Wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
50.062   Wastewater discharge permitting: existing connections
   
50.063   Wastewater discharge permitting: new connections
   
50.064   Wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
50.065   Application signatories and certification
   
50.066   Wastewater discharge permit decisions
Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
   
50.075   Wastewater discharge permit duration
   
50.076   Wastewater discharge permit contents
   
50.077   Wastewater discharge permit appeals
   
50.078   Appeals to the Board of Public Works and Safety
   
50.079   Wastewater discharge permit modification
   
50.080   Wastewater discharge permit transfer
   
50.081   Wastewater discharge permit revocation
   
50.082   Wastewater discharge permit reissuance
   
50.083   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Reporting Requirements
   
50.095   Baseline monitoring reports
   
50.096   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
50.097   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
50.098   Periodic compliance reports
   
50.099   Reports of changed conditions
   
50.100   Reports of potential problems
   
50.101   Reports from unpermitted users
   
50.102   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
50.103   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
50.104   Analytical requirements
   
50.105   Sample collection
   
50.106   Timing
   
50.107   Record keeping
Compliance Monitoring
   
50.120   Right of entry: inspection and sampling
   
50.121   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
50.130   Confidential information
Publication of Users in Significant Noncompliance
   
50.140   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
50.150   Notification of violation
   
50.151   Consent orders
   
50.152   Show cause hearing
   
50.153   Compliance orders
   
50.154   Cease and desist orders
   
50.155   Administrative fines
   
50.156   Emergency suspensions
   
50.157   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
50.170   Injunctive relief
   
50.171   Civil penalties
   
50.172   Remedies nonexclusive
Supplemental Enforcement Action
   
50.180   Performance bonds
   
50.181   Liability insurance
   
50.182   Water supply severance
   
50.183   Public nuisances
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
50.190   Upset
   
50.191   Prohibited discharge standards
   
50.192   Bypass
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
50.200   Pretreatment charges and fees
   
50.201   Severability
Illicit Discharge Control
   
50.220   Purpose/Intent
   
50.221   Definitions
   
50.222   Applicability
   
50.223   Responsibility for administration
   
50.224   Severability
   
50.225   Ultimate responsibility
   
50.226   Discharge prohibitions
   
50.227   Suspension of MS4 access
   
50.228   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
50.229   Monitoring of discharges
   
50.230   Requirements to prevent, control and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
50.231   Watercourse protection
   
50.232   Notification of spills
   
50.233   Enforcement
   
50.234   Administrative fines
   
50.235   Appeal of notice of violation
   
50.236   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
50.237   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
50.238   Injunctive relief
   
50.239   Alternative compensatory action
   
50.240   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
50.241   Criminal prosecution
   
50.242   Remedies not exclusive
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the city's
wastewater collection and treatment systems and enables the city to protect
public health in conformity with all applicable state and federal laws,
including the Clean Water Act (33 United States Code § 1251 et seq.) and the
General Pretreatment Regulations (40 Code of Federal Regulations Part 403). The
objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works (POTW) that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or the
atmosphere, or otherwise be incompatible with the POTW;
      (3)   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater
and sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
      (4)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the POTW;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the POTW including fees for excess
wastewater strength discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   To enable the city to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit conditions, sludge use and disposal
requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the POTW is subject;
and
      (7)   To regulate the use of public and private sewers and the
installation and connection of building sewers.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the POTW. The chapter details
the general regulation of discharges to public sewers; authorizes the issuance
of construction permits for building sewers; authorizes the issuance of
wastewater discharge permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and
enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures; requires
industrial user reporting, provides for the equitable distribution of costs
through establishment of a system of rates, charges, and billings for the use
of the collection system and POTW.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the Superintendent
to other city personnel.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
   ASTM - American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BMP - Best Management Practices.
   BOD - Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
   CBOD - Carbonaceous Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
   CFR - Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD - Chemical Oxygen Demand.
   EPA - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   ERP - Enforcement Response Plan.
   gpd - gallons per day.
   IDEM - Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   IU - Industrial User.
   mg/l - milligrams per liter.
   NH3-N - Ammonia-Nitrogen.
   NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   POTW - Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
   RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SIC - Standard Industrial Classification.
   SIU - Significant Industrial User.
   SNC - Significant Noncompliance.
   SWDA - Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 67901, et seq.).
   TKN - Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen.
   TSS - Total Suspended Solids.
   U.S.C. - United States Code.
   WPCF - Water Pollution Control Federation (now known as Water Environment
Federation - WEF).
   40 CFR Part 136 - Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for the Analyses
of Pollutants.
   40 CFR Part 261 - Identification and Listing of Hazardous Waste.
   40 CFR Part 430 - General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New
Sources of Pollution.
   40 CFR Part 405 - 471 - Categorical Pretreatment Standards Applicable to
Specific industrial Categories.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95; Am. Ord. 2010-16, passed 2-7-11)
§ 50.004 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
   "ACT" or "THE ACT." The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.
   "AMMONIA" (or NH3N)." Ammonia measured as Nitrogen. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the
latest edition of "Standard Methods."
   "APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD." Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal, state and/or local) contained in the chapter and considered
to be most restrictive with which non-domestic users will be required to
comply.
   "APPROVAL AUTHORITY." The Indiana Department of Environmental Management
(IDEM) or the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA), Region V.
   "AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER."
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice- president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision- making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with the environmental laws and regulations;
can ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to
gather complete and accurate information for wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in subsection (1) through (3) of this
definition may designate another authorized representative if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, and the written authorization is submitted to the city.
   "AVERAGE MONTHLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION." The highest allowable average of
"daily discharges" over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily
discharges measured during a calendar month divided by the number of daily
discharges measured during that month.
   "AVERAGE WEEKLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION." The highest allowable average of
"daily discharges" over a calendar week, calculated as the sum of all daily
discharges, measured during a calendar week divided by the number of daily
discharges measured during that week.
   "BENEFICIAL USES." These uses include, but are not limited to, domestic,
municipal, agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation,
aesthetic enjoyment, navigation, and the preservation and enhancement of fish,
wildlife and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other aquatic resources,
both tangible or intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
   "BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES." The schedule of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
50.007(A) and (B) (40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   "BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND" or "BOD." The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20° C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
Determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
"Standard Methods."
   "BOARD." The Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Greensburg,
Indiana, or any duly authorized officials or boards acting in its behalf.
   "BUILDING (or HOUSE) DRAIN." The lowest horizontal piping of a building
drainage system which receives the discharge from waste, and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to a point approximately
five feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
   "BUILDING DRAIN or BUILDING SEWER - SANITARY." A building drain or sewer
which conveys sanitary or industrial sewage only.
   "BUILDING DRAIN or BUILDING SEWER - STORM." A building drain or sewer which
conveys stormwater or other clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
   "BUILDING (or HOUSE) LATERAL SEWER." The extension from the building drain
to the sewerage system or other place of disposal. (Also called house
connections).
   "CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND" or "CBOD." The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of carbonaceous organic matter under
standard laboratory procedures for five days at 20° C, usually expressed as a
concentration (e.g. mg/l). Determination shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in "Standard Methods."
   "CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD." Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with
Section 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act which apply to a specific
category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts
405-471.
   "CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND" or "COD." A measure of the oxygen equivalent of
that portion of organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by
a strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods."
   "CITY." The City of Greensburg, Indiana or any duly authorized officials
acting in its behalf.
   "COMBINED SEWER." A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   "COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT." Any biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH
and fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
Permit if the POTW was designed to treat such pollutants and in fact does
remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term substantial degree is
not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in the
order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10 to 30%
are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional pollutants which may
be considered compatible include: (A) chemical oxygen demand, (B) total organic
carbon, (C) phosphorus and phosphorus compounds, (D) nitrogen and nitrogen
compounds, and (E) fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin
(except as prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation
of the treatment works).
   "COMPOSITE SAMPLE." The sample resulting from the combination of individual
samples taken at selected intervals based on flow proportional composite sample
collection techniques. Composite wastewater samples should contain a minimum of
eight discrete samples taken proportional to the flow rate over the compositing
period. In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the
Superintendent may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum
of four grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab
samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   "DAILY DISCHARGE." Discharge of a pollutant "measured during a calendar day
or any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day for purposes
of sampling."
   "DEBT SERVICE COSTS." The average annual principal and interest payments on
all revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   "EASEMENT." An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   "EFFLUENT." The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   "ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY" or "EPA." The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the administrator or other duly authorized official of the
agency.
   "EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE." An additional charge which is billed to
users for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of "normal
domestic sewage."
   "EXISTING SOURCE." Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with Section 307 of the Act.
   "FECAL COLIFORM." Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal
tract of man and animals, whose presence in water and sanitary sewage is an
indicator of pollution.
   "FLOATABLE OIL." Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater during treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the city.
   "GARBAGE." Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage or sale of produce.
   "GRAB SAMPLE." A sample which is taken from a waste stream without regard to
the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed 15
minutes.
   "INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT." Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids, as further defined in
Regulation 40 CFR Part 403.
   "INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE." The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c), or (d) of
the Act.
   "INDUSTRIAL WASTES." Any solid, liquid or gaseous substances or form of
energy discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial,
manufacturing, commercial or business process or from the development, recovery
or processing of any natural resource carried on by a person and shall further
mean any waste from an industrial sewer. Industrial wastes are distinct from
employee wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   "INFILTRATION." The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (Infiltration does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   "INFILTRATION/INFLOW." The total quantity of water from both infiltration
and inflow without distinguishing the source.
   "INFLOW." The water discharged into a sewer system, including building
drains and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leader,
cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water
discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross
connections from storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwater,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage. Inflow does not include, and is
distinguishable from infiltration.
   "INFLUENT." The water, together with any wastes that may be present flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   "INSPECTOR." The person or persons duly authorized by the city through its
Board of Public Works and Safety to inspect and approve the installation of
building sewers and their connection to the public sewer system.
   "INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT." The maximum concentration
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the
analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent of the
industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   "INTERFERENCE." A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, does one of the following: (1) inhibits or
disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations, its sludge processes,
or its selected sludge use or disposal methods; (2) causes a violation of any
requirement of the POTW’S NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation; or (3) prevents the use of the POTW’s sewage sludge
use or its sludge disposal method selected in compliance with the following
statutory provisions, regulations, or permits issued thereunder, or any more
stringent state or local regulations: (A) Section 405 of the Clean Water Act
(33 U.S.C. 1345); (B) the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. 6901),
including (I) Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act (RCRA); and (III) the rules contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA) (42 U.S.C. 6901); (C) the Clean Air Act; 42 U.S.C. 7401); and (D) the
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601.
   "MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS." Highest allowable "daily discharge."
   "MAY." Indicates a discretionary condition.
   "MEDICAL WASTE." Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   "NPDES PERMIT." National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit
setting forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Section 402
of Public Law 95-217.
   "NATURAL OUTLET." Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   "NEW SOURCE."
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c)
of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of subsection (1)(b) or (c) of this definition but otherwise alters,
replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this definition has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this definition.
   "NONCONTACT COOLING WATER." Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   "NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE." For the purpose of determining surcharges shall
mean wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as follows:
      TSS not more than 200 mg/l
      CBOD not more than 200 mg/l
      Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (TKN) not more than 30 mg/l
      As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences are distinct from industrial processes.
   "OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS." All costs, direct and indirect, necessary
to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on a
continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. These costs include
replacement costs.
   "OTHER SERVICE CHARGES." Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges other than excessive strength surcharges.
   "OUTLET." Any discharge natural or constructed, which is the point of final
discharge of sewage or of treatment plant effluent into any watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
   "PASS THROUGH." A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   "PERSON." Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership,
copartnership, join stock company, trust estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the state, the United States of
America, or other legal entity, or the legal representatives, agent, or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the singular shall
include the plural where located by the text.
   "pH." A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units. Determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set
forth in the latest edition of "Standard Methods."
   "PHOSPHORUS or P." The chemical element phosphorus, total. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the
latest edition of "Standard Methods."
   "POLLUTANT." Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   "PRETREATMENT." The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   "PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS." Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   "PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS." Pretreatment standards shall mean
prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards, and local
limits.
   "PRIMARY SEWER MAIN." The public sewer main which is required to transport
sewage from the property line of the nearest prospective customer to the
proposed point of connection at the Sewage Works' existing sewer main.
   "PRIVATE SEWER." A sewer which is not owned by the public authority.
   "PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances.
   "PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE." The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   "PUBLIC SEWER." A sewer which is owned and controlled by the city and will
consist of the following increments:
      "COLLECTOR SEWER." A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      "INTERCEPTOR SEWER." A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      "FORCE MAIN" shall mean a pipe in which wastewater is carried under
pressure.
      "PUMPING STATION" shall mean a station positioned in the public sewer
system at which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
      "RECEIVING STREAM." The watercourse, stream, or body of water receiving
the waters finally discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
   "PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW." A "treatment works," as defined by
Section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned by the city. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a
liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   "REPLACEMENT COSTS." The expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful
life of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed.
   "SANITARY SEWER." A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and
to which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   "SEPTIC TANK WASTE or SEPTAGE." Any sewage from holding tanks such as
vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   "SERVICE CHARGE." The basic charge levied on all users of the public
sewerage system for wastes which do not exceed in strength the concentration
values above on which a surcharge will be made.
   "SEWAGE." The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including
polluted cooling water). The three types of sewage are:
      "SANITARY SEWAGE" shall mean the combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary pumping facilities.
      "INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE." A combination of liquid and water- carried wastes,
discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any trade or
process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the wastes from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      "COMBINED SEWAGE." Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial sewage,
stormwater, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater treatment
facilities by a combined sewer.
   "SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT." The arrangement of devices, structures and
equipment used for treating and disposing of sewage and sludge.
   "SEWAGE WORKS." The structures, equipment and processes to collect,
transport and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   "SEWER." A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage or other waste liquids.
      "PRIVATE SEWER." A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
      "PUBLIC SEWER." A primary sewer or secondary sewer in which all owners of
abutting property have equal rights and which is controlled by the Sewage
Works.
      "SANITARY SEWER." A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, ground waters, and unpolluted industrial wastewaters are not
intentionally admitted.
      "STORM SEWER." A sewer which carries storm and surface water drainage but
excludes sewage.
   “SEWER CONNECTION FEE.”  A fee levied for making a connection to the sewer
system.
   "SHALL" is mandatory; "MAY" is permissive.
   "SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER."
      (1)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
      (2)   A user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement. As defined in federal
regulations 40 CFR 403.6.
      (3)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection (2)
of this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the
POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the
city may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition
received from a user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6),
determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
   "SLUDGE." Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as deemed in standards issued under Sections 402
and 405 of the Act and in the applicable requirements under Sections 3001,
3004, and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act PL 94-580.
   "SLUG." Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than five minutes more than five times the average 24 hour concentration
of flow during normal operation and which adversely affects the sewage works.
   "SLUG LOAD OR SLUG DISCHARGE." Any discharge at a flow rate or
concentration, which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge
standards in § 50.007. A "SLUG DISCHARGE" is any discharge of a non-routine,
episodic nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-
customary batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause
interference or pass through, or in any other way violate the POTW's
regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
   "STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE." A classification pursuant
to the Standard Industrial Classification Model issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
   "STANDARD METHODS." The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest
edition, at the time of analysis, of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater" prepared and published jointly by the American Public
Health Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water
Environment Federation.
   "STORM SEWER." A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   "STORMWATER." Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   "SUPERINTENDENT." The person designated by the city to supervise the
operation of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter, or duly authorized representative.
   "SURCHARGE." The extra charges for sewerage service assessed customers whose
sewage is of such a nature that it imposes upon the sewage works a burden
greater than that covered by the basic service charge.
   "SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS." The total weight of solids which either float on
the surface of or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which
are removable by laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed
in milligrams per liter. Quantitative determination shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods."
   "TOTAL REVENUE." That revenue obtained from monthly minimum billing for the
use of and service rendered by the sewage works and does not include front
footage assessments, permit or inspection fees or other charges.
   "TOTAL SOLIDS." The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   "TOXIC AMOUNT." Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act.
   "TOXIC POLLUTANT." Those substances referred to in Section 307(a) of the
Act, as well as any other known potential substance capable of producing toxic
effects.
   "UNPOLLUTED WATER." Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   "UPSET." An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of non-compliance with the applicable standards due
to factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger, and excluding
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative
maintenance, or careless or improper operation of the facilities.
   "USER." Any source of indirect discharge which causes, or permits the entry
of wastewater into the POTW.
   "USER CHARGE." A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works
for the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Section 204
(b) of Public Law 92-500.
   "USER CLASS." The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities, (i.e.
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
User Charge System.)
      "RESIDENTIAL USER." A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling unit, and the like.
      "COMMERCIAL USER." Any establishment involved in a commercial enterprise,
business or service which based on a determination by the city discharges
primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      "INSTITUTIONAL USER." Any establishment involved in social, charitable,
religious, and/or educational function which, based on a determination by the
city discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      "GOVERNMENTAL USER." Any federal, state or local governmental user of the
wastewater treatment works.
      "INDUSTRIAL USER." Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a wastewater treatment works.
   "VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER." The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated to 550° C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   "WASTEWATER." Liquid and water carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   "WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS and CHARACTERISTICS." The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological, and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate, and other parameters that serve to define, classify, or measure the
contents, quality, quantity, and strength of wastewater.
   "WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT." That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
   "WATERCOURSE." A natural or artificial channel in which a flow of water
occurs continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95; Am. Ord. 1997-15, passed 9-2-97; Am. Ord. 2010-16,
passed 2-7-11; Am. Ord. 2012, passed 9-4-12)
§ 50.005 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, water from clear water sources such as
stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
cooling water, unpolluted water, unpolluted industrial process water,
foundation drain water, and sump pump water.
   (C)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, unpolluted industrial process water,
foundation drain water, and sump pump water may be admitted to storm sewers
which have adequate capacity for their accommodation. No person shall use such
sewers, however, without the specific permission of the city.
   (D)   No new connection to the sanitary sewer system shall be made unless
there is capacity available to all downstream sewers, lift stations, force
mains and the sewage treatment plant, including capacity for BOD and S.S.
   (E)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
city, any wastewater or other polluted water except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted water except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (G)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (H)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city is hereby required at his
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 30 days after date of official notice to do
so, provided that the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to construct combined sewers within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to discharge water from clear water sources as
listed in division (B) of this section to a combined sewer from new
construction that is tributary to the combined sewer unless authorized by the
Superintendent. The Superintendent may allow discharge to the combined sewer if
the new construction is designed to minimize or delay inflow contribution to
the existing combined sewer.
   (K)   For any new construction, the inflow/clear water connection to a
combined sewer shall be made separate and distinct from the sanitary waste
connection to facilitate disconnection of the former if a separate storm sewer
subsequently becomes available. The Superintendent may require separate flow
monitoring devices be installed on the inflow/clear water connection.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
Penalty, see § 50.171
§ 50.006 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of division (H) of
§ 50.005, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the city at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the IDEM. No permit shall be
issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 2,500 square feet.
No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (A) of this
section, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be physically removed or abandoned in place by
filling with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 30 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge prior to physical removal or abandoning and filled
with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health
Officer.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.007 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other federal, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140° F (60° C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 10.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than two inches or five centimeters in any dimension;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150° F (65° C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104° F (40° C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Superintendent in accordance with §
50.048 of this chapter;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)    Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the city's NPDES permit;
      (11)    Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (12)    Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
      (13)    Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)    Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)    Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (16)    Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (17)    Fats, oils, or greases of animal, vegetable or mineral origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l;
      (18)    Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, of more than
10% or any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit of the meter.
   (C)   Accidental spill prevention. Pollutants. substances or wastewater
prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner
that they could be discharged to the POTW.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95; Am. Ord. 2010-16, passed 2-7-11)
Penalty, see § 50.171
§ 50.008 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The Categorical Pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter
N, Parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 CFR 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 CFR 403.3, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.5.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.009 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   State pretreatment standards are hereby incorporated.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
Penalty, see § 50.171
§ 50.010 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass
through and/or organically overloading the POTW. No person shall discharge
wastewater containing in excess of the following maximum daily discharge
limits:
      0.02 mg/l cadmium
      2.50 mg/l total chromium
      0.20 mg/l hexavalent chromium
      0.20 mg/l copper
      0.09 mg/l cyanide
      0.25 mg/l lead
      0.0004 mg/l mercury
      0.10 mg/l molybdenum
      1.20 mg/l nickel
      100 mg/l oil and grease
      2.00 mg/l zinc
      15.0 mg/l Total petroleum hydrocarbons
      0.050 mg/l benzene
      0.500 mg/l Total BTEX (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene)
      750 mg/l Five-day Biochemical Oxygen Demand
      750 mg/l Total Suspended Solids by weight
   (B)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for "total" metal
unless indicated otherwise. The Superintendent may impose mass limitations in
addition to, or in place of, the concentration-based limitations above.
   (C)   The Superintendent may develop best management practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits, to implement local
limits and the requirements of §
50.007.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95; Am. Ord. 2005-17, passed 11-7-05; Am. Ord. 2010-
16, passed 2-7-11)
Penalty, see § 50.171
§ 50.011 CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in wastewater
discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on discharges to
the POTW.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.012 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
Penalty, see § 50.171
§ 50.013 SEWER SERVICE TO UNINCORPORATED AREAS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   "CONTIGUOUS." As stated in IC 36-4-3-1.5, as amended.
   "EXISTING CUSTOMER." All persons with financial responsibility for a
sanitary sewer service account as of the date of this section.
   "NEW CUSTOMER." Any person opening an account for sanitary sewer service
from the city after the effective date of this section, whether the service
address was already being served as of the date of this section or not. A "NEW
CUSTOMER" shall include a person who acquires real estate after the effective
date of this section which was already connected to the city's sanitary sewer
system as of the effective date of this section.
   (B)   Contiguous real estate. The city shall not provide sanitary sewer
service to new customers if the service address to be served is outside the
corporate limits and contiguous to the city unless such new customer petitions
the city to annex the subject real estate, and commits to pursue such petition
until the subject real estate is annexed into the city. After the petition to
annex is filed, and before the annexation is finalized, the entity shall pay
the charges described at division (C)(2).
   (C)   Non-contiguous real estate.
      (1)   Requirements. The city shall not provide sanitary sewer service to
new customers if the service address to be served is outside the corporate
limits but not contiguous to the city unless and until:
         (a)   The new customer executes and submits to the city in a form
acceptable to the Council an Application and Agreement for Sewer Service as
described in division (C)(2) below; and
         (b)   The Board of Public Works and the Mayor execute as accepting the
Application and Agreement for Sewer Service.
      (2)   Application and Agreement for Sewer Service. The Application and
Agreement for Sewer Service shall state that it constitutes a petition for
annexation. It shall further state that the new customer commits and agrees,
within 60 days of notification by the city, to execute and file a renewed
voluntarily petition to annex the subject real estate and pursue such petition
until such real estate is annexed by the city. Failure to submit the requested
renewed petition or withdrawing or contesting the petition for annexation shall
result in termination of sewer service. The Application and Agreement for Sewer
Service shall further require the new customer to pay to the city an amount
equal to 55% of the amount of each annual assessment of city taxes that would
be assessed on the subject real estate if the subject real estate was located
within the city without regard to any statutory or constitutional limits that
might reduce the city taxes in such event. The Application and Agreement for
Sewer Service shall contain terms that state any amount not paid by the due
date shall be considered delinquent. The delinquent charge shall be 10% of the
delinquent amount and shall be added to the total amount due. The Application
and Agreement for Sewer Service shall also state that the delinquent amount
together with any delinquent penalties, costs, and other expenses of collection
may be collected by the city by any lawful remedy including the placing and
foreclosure of real estate liens for the delinquent amount. The Application and
Agreement for Sewer Service shall also provide that if, at the expiration of
the term, the new customer does not wish to renew under the same terms and
conditions, then the new customer must disconnect the property from the city's
sewer system. It is the intention of this Council that for so long as the
property remains connected to the city's sanitary sewer system, the terms of
the Application and Agreement for Sewer Service shall apply. Further, if such
terms do not apply for any reason, then it is the intention of this Council
that sanitary sewer service to the property should cease.
      (3)   Consent to agreements. The Council hereby consents to any and all
present and future agreements entered into by the Board of Public Works and the
Mayor that contain terms described in this section. The Council shall be
apprised of all executed agreements pertaining hereto.
   (D)   Water service. This section shall apply to all properties outside the
corporate limits which are connected to the city's sanitary sewer system and
which are also connected to the city's water utility. If the property remains
connected to the city's sanitary sewer system even though this section
prohibits the provision of or requires the termination of sanitary sewer
service, the city shall terminate water service to the property.
   (E)   Every Application and Agreement for Sewer Service to unincorporated
areas after the effective date of this section must be signed and submitted by
the owner or owners of the real estate to be served.
(Ord. 2008-05-8, passed 11-3-08)
BUILDING SEWERS
§ 50.020 CONNECTION PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   No person shall make any connection with the public sewers or drains,
or with any extension or connection previously made, without first obtaining a
written permit from the Board of Public Works and Safety. The application for
such permit must be made in writing not later than the day previous to the
opening of the street by the owner or authorized agent of the property to be
drained, and must be accompanied by a clear description of the premises, the
name of the owner, the number of fixtures to be connected therewith, the name
of the person employed to do the work, and the permit fee in the amount
determined by the Board. All such applications must be filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits; (a) For
residential and commercial service; and (b) for service to establishments
producing material wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgement of the city. A permit and inspection fee
of $25 for a residential or commercial building permit and $100 for an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the
time the application is filed.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
Penalty, see § 50.171
§ 50.021 BUILDING SEWER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation.
   (B)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (C)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and test by the Superintendent or a
representative of the Superintendent to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, joint
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (E)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
six inches for single family or duplex residential units and not less than six
inches for all other uses. The slope of such six inch pipe shall be not less
than one-fourth inch per foot or sufficient slope to maintain a two feet per
second velocity in the sewer.
   (F)   Whenever possible the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment
insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly
curved pipes and fittings.
   (G)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work, unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent.
Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM
specifications, except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected by the Superintendent or a representative of the Superintendent.
   (I)   The connection of a building sewer into the public sewer shall conform
to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All such
connections shall be made gas tight and water tight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
   (J)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the "Y" branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer does not have a properly approved tapping saddle in the public
sewer at the location specified by the Superintendent, the tapping saddle shall
be installed in a neatly tapped hole cut into the public sewer; the connection
between the tapping saddle and the public sewer shall be secured by the use of
epoxy compound. The centerline of the building sewer at the tapping saddle
shall be at or above the centerline of the public sewers. A smooth neat joint
shall be made, and the connection made secure and watertight. Special fittings
may be used for the connection only when approved by the Superintendent.
   (K)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent 24 hours in advance of when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the Superintendent or a representative of the
Superintendent.
   (L)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be stored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (M)   Any connection made contrary to the provisions of this subchapter
shall be removed when required by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (N)   No proposed connection or inlet shall be permitted if, in the opinion
of the Board of Public Works and Safety and the Superintendent, such inlet and
connection would overburden such sewer.
   (O)   Stormwater and any other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of the
Superintendent and the state into a storm sewer, or natural outlet.
   (P)   Fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (R)   Fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gas tight and
watertight.
   (S)   Where installed, all fats, grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
Penalty, see § 50.171
RATES, CHARGES, AND BILLING
§ 50.030 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this chapter shall be as follows:
   “AMMONIA” or “NH3-N” or “TKN.” The same meaning as defined in the
sewer use ordinance (see § 50.004).
   “BOARD.” The Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Greensburg, or
any duly authorized officials acting in its behalf.
   “BOD” or “BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.” The same meaning as defined
in the sewer use ordinance (see § 50.004).
   “CBOD” or “CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.” The same meaning as
defined in the sewer use ordinance (see § 50.004).
   “CITY.” The City of Greensburg acting by and through the Board of Public
Works and Safety.
   “COD” or “CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.” The same meaning as defined in
the sewer use ordinance (see § 50.004).
   “DEBT SERVICE COSTS.” The average annual principal and interest payments on
all revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   “EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE.” An additional charge which is billed to
users for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of “NORMAL
DOMESTIC SEWAGE.”
   “INDUSTRIAL WASTES.” The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   “MAY.” Permissive.
   “NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.”
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   S.S. - not more than 200 mg/l.
         (b)   CBOD - not more than 200 mg/l.
         (c)   TKN - not more than 20 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from industrial processes.
   “NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT.” The same
meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance (see § 50.004).
   “OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS.” Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state, and local requirements (these costs include
replacement).
   “OTHER SERVICE CHARGES.” Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges other than excessive strength surcharges.
   “PERSON.” Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   “PHOSPHORUS.” The same meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance (see §
50.004).
   “REPLACEMENT COSTS.” The expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful
life of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed.
   “SEWAGE.” The same meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance (see §
50.004).
   “SEWER USE ORDINANCE.” A separate and companion enactment to this
subchapter, which regulates the connection to and use of public and private
sewers.
   “SHALL.” Mandatory.
   “S.S.” or “SUSPENDED SOLIDS.” The same meaning as defined in the sewer use
ordinance (see § 50.004).
   “USER CHARGE.” A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works
for the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to § 204(b) of
Public Law 92-500.
   “USER CLASS.” The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system).
      “COMMERCIAL USER.” Any establishment involved in a commercial enterprise,
business, or service which, based on a determination by the city, discharges
primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      “GOVERNMENTAL USER.” Any federal, state, or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      “INDUSTRIAL USER.” Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a wastewater treatment works.
      “INSTITUTIONAL USER.” Any establishment involved in a social, charitable,
religious, and/or educational function which, based on a determination by the
city, discharges primarily segregated wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      “RESIDENTIAL USER.” A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, etc.
(Ord. 2000-13, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 2005-13, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-
06-10, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-1, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-15, passed
11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2016-30, passed 12-5-16; Am. Ord. 2021-24, passed 12-6-21;
Am. Ord. 2024-26, passed 12-10-24)
§ 50.031 USER CLASS CHARGES.
   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be charged
for the services provided. These charges are established for each user class as
defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover from each user and user
class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works in terms
of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User charges shall
be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (A)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency published in the Federal Register on
February 17, 1984 (40 CFR 35.2140). Replacement costs, which are recovered
through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected useful
life of the sewage works equipment.
   (B)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purpose of
this chapter shall be as follows - Class 1:
      (1)   Residential;
      (2)   Commercial;
      (3)   Governmental;
      (4)   Institutional; and
      (5)   Industrial.
(Ord. 1994-4, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 2000-13, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 2005-
13, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-06-10, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-1, passed
4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-15, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2016-30, passed 12-5-16; Am.
Ord. 2021-24, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 2024-26, passed 12-10-24)
§ 50.032 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Effective January 1, 2025. For the use of the service rendered
by the sewage works, rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of
each and every lot, parcel of real estate, or building that is connected with
the city sanitary system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes, water, or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the
sanitary sewage system of the city. Such rates and charges include user
charges, debt service costs, excessive strength surcharges, and other service
charges, which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and
shall be in an amount determined as follows:
         (a)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges
as the same may be measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge
based on the size of water meter installed, except as herein otherwise
provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage
service, the water meters shall be read monthly, and the users shall be billed
each month (or period equaling a month). The water usage schedule on which the
amount of said rates and charges shall be determined is as follows:
            All Class I Users.
            1.   Treatment rate per 100 cubic feet of usage per month: $5.53;
plus:
            2.   Base rate per month:
 
Meter Size              Per Month
5/8 inch - 3/4 inch     $22.52
1 inch                  $51.69
1-1/4 inch - 1-1/2 inch $115.92
 
2 inch  $197.24
3 inch  $449.58
4 inch  $799.07
6 inch  $1,789.40
8 inch  $3,187.22
10 inch $5,686.44
 
         (b)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users, or
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined by equivalent single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month). The schedule on which said rates and charges will be
determined is as follows:
 
                                        Monthly Rate
Residential: single-family dwelling unit $47.55
 
         (c)   For the service rendered to the city, said city shall be subject
to the same rates and charges established in harmony therewith.
      (2)   Effective January 1, 2026. For the use of the service rendered by
the sewage works, rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of each
and every lot, parcel of real estate, or building that is connected with the
city sanitary system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes, water, or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the
sanitary sewage system of the city. Such rates and charges include user
charges, debt service costs, excessive strength surcharges, and other service
charges, which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and
shall be in an amount determined as follows:
         All Class I Users.
         (a)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges
as the same may be measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge
based on the size of water meter installed, except as herein otherwise
provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage
service, the water meters shall be read monthly, and the users shall be billed
each month (or period equaling a month). The water usage schedule on which the
amount of said rates and charges shall be determined is as follows:
            1.   Treatment rate per 100 cubic feet of usage per month: $5.87;
plus:
            2.   Base rate per month:
Meter Size Per Month
Meter Size              Per Month
5/8 inch - 3/4 inch     $23.88
1 inch                  $54.80
1-1/4 inch - 1-1/2 inch $122.90
2 inch                  $209.11
3 inch                  $476.62
4 inch                  $847.14
6 inch                  $1,897.04
8 inch                  $3,378.93
10 inch                 $6,028.48
 
         (b)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users, or
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined by equivalent single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month). The schedule on which said rates and charges will be
determined is as follows:
 
                                        Monthly Rate
Residential: single-family dwelling unit $ 50.41
 
         (c)   For the service rendered to the city, said city shall be subject
to the same rates and charges established in harmony therewith.
      (3)   Effective January 1, 2027. For the use of the service rendered by
the sewage works, rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of each
and every lot, parcel of real estate, or building that is connected with the
city sanitary system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes, water, or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the
sanitary sewage system of the city. Such rates and charges include user
charges, debt service costs, excessive strength surcharges, and other service
charges, which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and
shall be in an amount determined as follows:
         All Class I Users.
         (a)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges
as the same may be measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge
based on the size of water meter installed, except as herein otherwise
provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage
service, the water meters shall be read monthly, and the users shall be billed
each month (or period equaling a month). The water usage schedule on which the
amount of said rates and charges shall be determined is as follows:
            1.   Treatment rate per 100 cubic feet of usage per month: $6.20;
plus
            2.   Base rate per month:
Meter Size Per Month
Meter Size              Per Month
5/8 inch - 3/4 inch     $25.23
1 inch                  $57.91
1-1/4 inch - 1-1/2 inch $129.87
2 inch                  $220.97
3 inch                  $503.67
4 inch                  $895.20
6 inch                  $2,004.67
8 inch                  $3,570.64
10 inch                 $6,370.52
 
         (b)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users, or
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined by equivalent single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month). The schedule on which said rates and charges will be
determined is as follows:
 
                                        Monthly Rate
Residential: single-family dwelling unit $58.40
 
         (c)   For the service rendered to the city, said city shall be subject
to the same rates and charges established in harmony therewith.
   (B)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the city
shall charge the user not less than $88.58 per sampling event plus the actual
cost for collecting and analyzing the sample(s) as determined by the city or by
an independent laboratory in Phase I, beginning January 1, 2025, and not less
than $93.91 per sampling event plus the actual cost for collecting and
analyzing the sample(s) as determined by the city or by an independent
laboratory in Phase II, beginning January 1, 2026 and not less than $99.23 per
sampling event plus the actual cost for collecting and analyzing the sample(s)
as determined by the city or by an independent laboratory in Phase III,
beginning January 1, 2027. This charge will be reviewed on the same basis as
all other rates and charges in this section.
   (C)   Wastewater haulers (as defined elsewhere in this chapter) shall be
charged a fee of $48 per 1,000 gallons of septic waste in Phase I, beginning
January 1, 2025, and $54 per 1,000 gallons of septic waste in Phase II,
beginning January 1, 2026, and $60 per 1,000 gallons of septic waste in Phase
III, beginning January 1, 2027. These charges shall be paid at the Greensburg
Water Office prior to discharge in the plant.
   (D)   In order that domestic and residential users of sewage services shall
not be penalized for the sprinkling of lawns during the months of June, July,
August and September, the billing for treatment plant sewage service for
residences and/or domestic users for said months of June, July, August, and
September shall be based on the water usage for the previous months of
November, December, January and February. In the event the water usage for said
previous month of November, December, January, and February is greater than the
water usage for said months of June, July, August, and September, then the
billing for sewage service shall be computed on the actual water used in the
month for which the sewage service bill is being rendered. Domestic and/or
residential sewage service, as applicable to the sprinkling rate, shall apply
to each lot, parcel of real estate or building which is occupied and used as a
residence. Said sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are
partially or wholly used for commercial or industrial purposes, the owner shall
have the privilege of separating the water service so that the residential
portion of the premises is served through a separate meter, and in such case,
the water usage as registered by the water meter serving such portion of the
premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the sprinkling rate.
   (E)   Rate surcharges based on strength and character of discharges.
      (1)   Effective January 1, 2025. In order that the rates and charges may
be justly and equitably adjusted to the service rendered to users, the city
shall base its charges not only on the volume, but also on strength and
characters of the stronger-than-normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is
required to treat and dispose of. The city shall require the user to determine
the strength and content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly
or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system, in such manner, by such method,
and at such times as the city may deem practicable in light of the conditions
and attending circumstances of the case, in order to determine the proper
charge. The user shall furnish a central sampling point available to the city
at all times.
         (a)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a
carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid,
ammonia (or TKN) in excess of 20 milligrams per liter of fluid, or suspended
solids in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for
treating stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following
basis:
            1.   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.36 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
            2.   Rate surcharge based upon CBOD. There shall be an additional
charge of $0.29 per pound of carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand for BOD
received in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
            3.   Rate surcharge based upon Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (TKN). There
shall be an additional charge of $0.70 per pound of TKN for TKN received in
excess of 20 milligrams per liter of fluid.
         (b)   The determination of suspended solids, five-day carbonaceous
biochemical oxygen demand, biochemical oxygen demand, ammonia-nitrogen,
phosphorus, ammonia, and COD contained in the waste shall be in accordance with
the latest copy of "Standard Methods for the Elimination of Water, Sewage, and
Industrial Wastes" as written by the American Public Health Association, the
American Waterworks Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation,
and in accordance with "Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants," 40 CFR, Part 136.
   (F)   Sewer connection fee.
      (1)   No connection to the city’s sewage works system shall be allowed
until a payment of a sewer connection fee has been made to the city.
         (a)   “Sewer connection fee” is the charge to a user for a new
connection to or additional wastewater discharge from an existing connection to
the city’s sewage works system and is charged as a pro rata cost of
construction of all interceptor, local and lateral sewer lines and
appurtenances to serve the property of the connecting user and is charged in
return for the city making available to such user the city’s sewage treatment
system consisting of all facilities and operations necessary to treat sewage of
such user. The amount of the connection fee shall be as follows:
            Residential User   All Other Users
            $900 per EDU   $900 per EDU
         (b)   Equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) is defined as the design average
use of 310 gallons per day or 9,300 gallons of wastewater per month over one
calendar year. EDU determinations for wastewater dischargers other than single-
family dwellings shall be determined in accordance with Table 1.
Service Connection Description FCF (Gallons per Day)
Service Connection Description             FCF (Gallons per Day)
Agricultural labor camp                    50 per occupant
Airport                                    3 per passenger plus 20 per employee
Apartments:                                 
   1 Bedroom                            200 per unit
   2 Bedroom                            300 per unit
   3 Bedroom                            310 per unit
Assembly hall                              3 per seat
Athletic field (baseball, soccer,          1 per participant and spectator with
football, etc)                             additions for concessions
Auction and flea market: with full kitchen 5 per customer
Auction and flea market: with warming      4 per customer
kitchen
Auction and flea market: without kitchen   3 per customer
Automatic self cleaning bathroom           20 per cycle (3 per day)
Banquet caterer                            10 per person
Bar (without food)                         10 per seat
Barber shops                               100 per chair
Beauty salons                              150 per chair
Bed and breakfast                          150 per bedroom
Bowling alley (with bar and/or food)       125 per lane
Bowling alley (without food)               75 per lane
Bus station                                3 per passenger
Campground (organizational) with flush     40 per camper
toilets, showers, central kitchen
 
Service Connection Description FCF (Gallons per Day)
Service Connection Description           FCF (Gallons per Day)
Campground (organizational) without
flush toilets, privy use, central dining 20 per camper
hall, no showers, hand washing
Campground (recreational) with           100 per campsite
individual sewer connection
Campground (recreational) without        50 per campsite
individual sewer connection
Church with full kitchen                 5 per sanctuary seat
Church with warming kitchen              4 per sanctuary seat
Church without kitchen                   3 per sanctuary seat
Condominium, multi-family dwelling: one  200 per unit
bedroom
Condominium, multi-family dwelling: two  300 per unit
bedroom
Condominium, multi-family dwelling:      350 per unit
three bedroom
Condominium, one and two family dwelling 150 per bedroom
Conferences                              10 per attendee
Correctional facilities                  120 per inmate
Day care center                          20 per person
Dentist                                  200 per chair plus 75 per employee
Doctor’s office                        75 per doctor, plus 75 per nurse, plus
                                         20 per support staff
Factory (Industrial/ Manufacturing) with 35 per employee plus process water
showers
Factory (Industrial/ Manufacturing)      20 per employee plus process water
without showers
Factory (Industrial/ Manufacturing)      Peak average daily flow in gallons per
process water                            day
Fire station: manned                     75 per firefighter
 
Service Connection Description FCF (Gallons per Day)
Service Connection Description           FCF (Gallons per Day)
Fire station: unmanned                   35 per firefighter
Food service operations: cocktail lounge 35 per seat
or tavern
Food service operations: restaurant (not 35 per seat
open 24 hours)
Food service operations: restaurant      50 per seat
(open 24 hours)
Food service operations: restaurant (not
open 24 hours but located along an       50 per seat
interstate)
Food service operations: restaurant
(open 24 hours and located along an      70 per seat
interstate)
Food service operations: tavern          35 per seat
Food service operations: curb service    50 per car space
(drive-in)
Golf comfort station                     3 per 50% of maximum number of golfers
Golf main clubhouse                      5 per golfer with additions for food
                                         service and showers
Hospital, medical facility               200 per bed
Hotel                                    100 per room
Kennels and vet clinics (sum of all of    
the following services at a facility):   5 per cage
   1)   a. cages;                  10 per run
      b. inside runs;              20 per run
      c. outside runs;             10 per animal
      d. grooming;                 50 per surgery room
      e. surgery; plus             75 per veterinary doctor, plus 75 per
   2) staff                           veterinary assistant, plus 20 per
                                         support staff
Mental health facility                   100 per patient
Mobile home park                         200 per lot
 
Service Connection Description FCF (Gallons per Day)
Service Connection Description        FCF (Gallons per Day)
Motel                                 100 per room
Nursing home                          100 per bed
Office building without showers       20 per employee
Office building with showers          35 per employee
Outpatient surgical center            50 per patient
Picnic area                           5 per visitor
Race tracks 5 per attendee            20 per staff
School: elementary                    15 per pupil
School: secondary                     25 per pupil
School with dormitory                 100 per bed
Service station: convenience store/   1,000 with additions for food
service center                        preparation and seating
Service station with only 2 restrooms 400 per restroom
Service station with only unisex      600 per restroom
restroom
Service station: automatic self       60 per day
cleaning bathroom
Shopping center                       0.1 per square foot of floor space, plus
                                      20 per employee
Swimming pool bathhouse               10 per swimmer
Theater: drive-in                     5 per car space
Theater: inside building              5 per seat
 
   EDU = FCF/310
      (2)   Line extensions to accommodate a single-family or multi- family
dwelling, municipal, commercial, or industrial establishment shall be the
responsibility of the developer or owner of such property.
      (3)   Payment of the sewer connection fee shall be made at the following
times:
         (a)   For new construction connections, the sewer connection fees
shall be paid in full at the time of requesting a building permit and must be
paid in full before issuance of a building permit. The amount to be paid at the
time of permit issuance shall be the amount set forth in subsection (b) for the
wastewater discharge specified at the time of permit issuance for the usage and
building type being proposed at the time of the permit request; and
         (b)   For all existing sewage connections with additional wastewater
usage, the sewer connection fee shall be paid in full before the additional
discharge is made to the city’s sewage system.
         (c)   The individual seeking the building permit bears the
responsibility to ensure payment of the applicable sewer connection fees prior
to application for a building permit and no permit will be issued without
confirmation of payment of the sewer connection fees.
         (d)   This amendment to the subchapter shall be retroactive such that
all prior plat or plan approvals obtained prior to this amendment where such
fees have not been previously paid are not required to be paid until such the
time of requesting a building permit and must be paid in full before the
issuance of a building permit. The amount to be paid at the time of permit
issuance shall be the amount set forth in subsection (b) for the wastewater
discharge specified at the time of permit issuance for the usage and building
type being proposed at the time of the permit request.
         (e)   For all services where the fees were previously paid at the time
of plat or plan approval, no additional fees will be assessed at the time of
requesting a building permit, provided the wastewater discharge is the same as
the wastewater discharge that was used to compute the original fee amount. If a
larger wastewater discharge is requested at the time of issuance of the
building permit, an additional fee in the amount of the difference in fees for
the wastewater discharge requested versus the wastewater discharge used to
compute the initial fee, based upon the amounts set forth in subsection (b) for
the wastewater discharge specified at the time of permit issuance.
   (G)   (1)   For the purpose of this division, an equivalent residential unit
(ERU) is defined as the amount of impervious area included upon an average
residential property. An impervious area refers to those surface areas of
residential and non-residential properties which water will not penetrate and
from which stormwater runoff will be produced. An impervious area of not more
than 3,000 square feet shall constitute one ERU.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purposes of this division, the following terms
shall have the specified meaning.
         "CLASS I." Any parcel existing within or later annexed into the
corporate limits of the City of Greensburg and any parcel now existing in or
later added to the City of Greensburg, Indiana sewage works system service area
considered to be agricultural or residential. This shall include duplexes,
triplexes, mobile homes and condominiums.
         "CLASS II." Any parcel existing within or later annexed into the
corporate limits of the City of Greensburg and any parcel now existing in or
later added to the City of Greensburg, Indiana sewage works system service area
considered to be unimproved parcels. Unimproved parcels include, but are not
necessarily limited to, unimproved agricultural parcels, unimproved residential
parcels, unimproved commercial parcels, unimproved industrial parcels,
unimproved tax-exempt parcels, unimproved municipal parcels, and unimproved
utility parcels.
         "CLASS III." All parcels existing within or later annexed into the
corporate limits of the City of Greensburg and any parcel in or later added to
the City of Greensburg, Indiana sewage works system service area considered to
be public street right-of-way and/or portions of parcels existing within or
later annexed into the corporate limits of the City of Greensburg and any
parcel in or later added to the City of Greensburg, Indiana sewage works system
service area considered to be public street right-of-way. Where a parcel has a
portion of its area considered to be public street right-of-way, the remainder
of that parcel shall be classified as defined in this division.
         "CLASS IV." All parcels not encompassed within the definitions of
Class I, Class II, and Class III. This includes, but is not necessarily limited
to, commercial parcels, industrial parcels, tax-exempt parcels, municipal
parcels, and utility parcels.
      (3)   This section is hereby amended to make provisions for a monthly
stormwater fee. For all parcels defined as Class I, the monthly stormwater fee
is to be paid by each utility customer with a utility service account for
utilities other than stormwater on the parcel, and for all parcels defined as
other than Class I and for parcels defined as Class I but without a utility
service account for utilities other than stormwater, the monthly stormwater fee
is to be paid by each property owner. Stormwater fees shall be paid according
to the following schedule:
 
Type of Property Number of ERUs       Initial Monthly Fee Initial Total Monthly
                                      per ERU             Fee
Class 1          1.00                 $3.50               $3.50
Class II         0.33                 $3.50               $1.16
Class III        0.00                 $3.50               $0.00
                                                          Variable as
                 One ERU for every                        calculated by
Class IV         3,000 square feet of $3.50               multiplying the
                 impervious area                          number of ERUs times
                                                          the monthly fee per
                                                          ERU
 
      (4)   Because properties identified as Parcel Id Numbers 16-06- 20-340-
006.000-017, 16-06-28-330-010.000-016,16-06-29-120-003.000-016, 16-06-29-210-
002.000-016, 16-06-30-140-002.000-018, 16-06-32-110- 002.000-016, 16-06-33-220-
004.000-016 and 16-06-34-330-015.000-016 generally are outside of the drainage
basins of Muddy Fork Creek, Gas Creek and Sand Creek which flow through the
corporate boundaries of the City of Greensburg and also because those
properties have existing stormwater facilities that exceed the minimum
requirements of the City of Greensburg, they will each be assessed one ERU for
every 9,000 square feet of impervious area with an initial monthly fee per ERU
of $3.50 and an initial total monthly fee that is variable as calculated by
multiplying the number of ERUs times the monthly fee per ERU. Said adjusted
rate of ERUs shall remain in effect until such time as the City Engineer and/or
the Director of Public Projects and city's MS4 Coordinator mutually determine
that the property owners do not continue to maintain stormwater facilities that
exceed the minimum requirements of the City of Greensburg. At such time, those
properties will be designated as Class IV property and assessed their fee as
set forth in division (3).
      (5)   Because properties identified as Parcel Id Numbers 16-10- 16-000-
007.020-015, 16-10-16-000-008.000-015, 16-10-16-000-009.000-015, 16-10-16-000-
010.000-015, 16-10-17-000-013.020-015, 16-10-17-000- 014.010-015, 16-10-17-000-
015.000-015, 16-10-17-340-012.020-015, 16-10- 20-000-001.000-015, 16-10-20-000-
002.000-015, 16-10-20-000-002.010-015, 16-10-20-000-003.000-015, 16-120-000-
004.000-015, 16-10-20-000-004.040- 015, 16-10-20-000-011.000-015, 16-10-20-000-
012.000-015, 16-10-20-000- 012.020-015, 16-10-20-000-012.030-015, 16-10-20-210-
013.010-015, 16-10- 21-000-006.010-015, 16-10-21-000-007.000-015, 16-10-21-000-
007.010-015, 16-10-21-000-007.040-015 are outside of the drainage basins of
Muddy Fork Creek, Gas Creek and Sand Creek which flow through the corporate
boundaries of the City of Greensburg, they will not be assessed any stormwater
fee.
      (6)   On January 1 of each year, beginning in 2023, a 3% Cost of Living
Adjustment (COLA) shall be added to the previous year's rates and charges. This
3% increase shall occur automatically each year unless and until such time that
the City of Greensburg City Council amends or adjust the percentage of the COLA
increase for the next fiscal year.
      (7)   Rates and charges incurred under this division shall be prepared
and collected by City of Greensburg Utility Office in accordance with those
provisions regulating the preparation and issuance of utility bills. For
parcels defined as Class I and having one or more utility service accounts the
monthly fee for Class I property shall be included on each utility invoice for
that parcel as a separate itemization for stormwater fee. The user fee shall be
due and payable at the same time as the utility bill. For parcels defined as
other than Class I and for parcels defined as Class I but having no other
utility service account, the monthly fee shall be invoiced on a separate
invoice mailed to the property owner. The user fee shall be due and payable 17
days after the date of the invoice. Failure to pay the user fee by the due date
will result in the assessment of a 10% late fee being added to the account. The
monies collected under this division shall be deposited in the City of
Greensburg Stormwater Revenue Fund hereby created.
      (8)   If, in the opinion of any user, the class assigned to his or her
property is inaccurate and/or the number of ERUs assigned to his or her
property is inaccurate in light of the amount of impervious surface area found
on the property, the user shall have the right to contest the ERU determination
and thus the rate assessed in the following manner:
         (a)   The user shall obtain and complete a petition to appeal the
stormwater rate and return it to the City Engineer and/or the Director of
Public Projects with verifiable documentation supporting the user's claim.
         (b)   The City Engineering Department shall investigate the user's
claim.
         (c)   Upon review thereof, the City of Greensburg Board of Public
Works shall hold a public hearing. The user and the Stormwater Division shall
have the opportunity to submit additional written documentation in support of
each position prior to the meeting. The Board shall conduct a hearing on the
dispute and issue a determination within 60 days, which shall be binding on the
Stormwater Division and the user. The hearing shall be electronically recorded,
and a transcript of the hearing provided upon request at a cost per page as
determined by the City of Greensburg Clerk/Treasurer.
         (d)   A party or person aggrieved by the final Board determination
shall have the right to judicial review of the determination in accordance with
state law.
         (e)   If reduction is ordered by the Board or court of law, the user
shall be credited accordingly for any overpayment made from the date of the
petition.
         (f)   Dispute or appeal of an ERU determination for the stormwater
user fee shall not be a valid reason for non-payment of the originally assessed
stormwater user fee by the user.
      (9)   A stormwater utility user fee credit manual, when approved by
resolution of the City of Greensburg Board of Works, will provide for non-
residential property owners to reduce their stormwater utility fee in exchange
for their efforts to reduce the impacts of stormwater runoff from their
property on the public infrastructure and waterways. When stormwater best
management practices are implemented by property owners in conformance with the
provisions of the approved stormwater utility user fee credit manual, their
annual assessed fee shall be reduced as set forth in the manual. The Board of
Works may from time to time and by resolution amend the provisions of the
stormwater utility user fee credit manual.
(Ord. 1994-4, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 1997-15, passed 9-2-97; Am. Ord. 2000-13,
passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 2005-13, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2006-19, passed 9-5-
06; Am. Ord. 2007-06-10, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-1, passed 4-5-10; Am.
Ord. 2013-15, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2015-19, passed 1-4-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
30, passed 12-5-16; Am. Ord. 2021-15, passed 9-7-21; Am. Ord. 2021-24, passed
12-6-21; Am. Ord. 2022-04, passed 3-8-22; Am. Ord. 2024-26, passed 12-10-24)
§ 50.033 RATES FOR DISCHARGE INTO THE SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that services the city shall be
determined by the city in such manner as the city shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates, except as
hereinafter provided in this section. The city may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the city that such
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
   (A)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building other than a
single-family dwelling unit discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
water, or other liquids into the city's sanitary sewage system, either directly
or indirectly, is not a user of water supplied by the water utility serving the
city, and the water used thereon or therein is not measured by a water meter,
or is measured by a water meter not acceptable to the city, then the amount of
water used shall be otherwise measured or determined by the city. In order to
ascertain the rate or charge provided in this chapter, the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the city for the determination of sewer discharge.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the city’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the city, and in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the city, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the city. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the city for the determination of
sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other liquids into the city’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate, or buildings
served through the single water meter.
   (D)   In the event two or more dwelling units, such as mobile homes,
apartments, or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other
liquids into the city’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out elsewhere herein, except that an additional unit’s charge shall be
added thereto, in the amount of $5 per month per dwelling unit over one served
through the single water meter. In the case of mobile home courts, the number
of dwelling units shall be computed and interpreted as the total number of
mobile home spaces available for rent plus any other dwelling units served
through a meter. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room or rooms or any
other space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the city's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses of water in
excess of 150,000 cubic feet per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction
of the city that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters
does not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring device, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the city for the determination of sewage discharge.
(Ord. 1994-4, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 2000-13, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 2005-
13, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-06-10, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-1, passed
4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-15, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2016-30, passed 12-5-16; Am.
Ord. 2021-24, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 2024-26, passed 12-10-24)
§ 50.034 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the city
in the manner provided by law and ordinance:
   (A)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid by the
seventeenth day of the month following receipt are hereby declared to be
delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates and charges shall
thereupon attach thereto.
   (B)   For all payments by check, the city will impose a returned check fee
for any check that is returned with insufficient funds or is not honored within
ten days of submittal to the utilities office. This fee will be the greater of
$27.50 or 5% of the amount due but shall not exceed $250. The city is also
required to refer all dishonored checks for which it is not able to obtain
payment to the prosecuting attorney for the county in which the check was
initially received no later than 90 days after the receipt of the check.
(Am. Ord. 2000-13, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 2005-13, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord.
2007-16-10, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-1, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-15,
passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2016-30, passed 12-5-16; Am. Ord. 2021-24, passed 12-
6-21; Am. Ord. 2024-26, passed 12-10-24)
§ 50.035 SEWAGE STUDIES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various user classes, the city shall cause a study to be made within a
reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation, following
the date on which this subchapter goes into effect. Such study shall include,
but not be limited to any analysis of the cost associated with the treatment of
excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and delivery flow
rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user classes, the
financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its revenue to
provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance, replacements, debt
service requirements, and capital improvements to the wastewater treatment
systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the city shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness, equity, and proportionality
of the rates and charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said
studies shall be conducted by officers, employers, certified public
accountants, or engineers as the city shall determine to be best under the
circumstances. The city shall, upon completion of said study, revise and adjust
the rates and charges, as necessary, in accordance therewith in order to
maintain the proportionality and sufficiency of the rates.
(Ord. 1994-4, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 2000-13, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 2005-
13, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-06-10, passed 6-19-07)
§ 50.036 GRANTING OF FREE SERVICE.
   The Board shall not grant free service or use of the sewer treatment system
to any person, group, or entity. It is necessary for an area or parcel of real
estate to be annexed to the city to receive sewer treatment.
(Ord. 1994-4, passed 4-4-94; Am. Ord. 2010-1, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-15,
passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2016-30, passed 12-5-16; Am. Ord. 2024-26, passed 12-
10-24)
§ 50.037 ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
city's sewage system, pumping stations, and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage treatment
works, the sewage collection system, and for the regulation, collection, and
rebating and refunding of rates and charges.
   (B)   The city is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
city's sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the city, or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit
issued to the sewage works, or as contained in the EPA General Pretreatment
Regulations, 40 CFR Part 403, and any amendments thereto, or the city's
Pretreatment Program Plan.
(Ord. 2000-13, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 2005-13, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-
06-10, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-1, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-15, passed
11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2016-30, passed 12-5-16; Am. Ord. 2021-24, passed 12-6-21;
Am. Ord. 2024-26, passed 12-10-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.038 APPEALS.
   That the rules and regulations promulgated by the city, after approval by
the Board of Public Works and Safety shall, among other things, provide for an
appeal procedure whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of
the administrator of the sewage system and user charge system to the Board of
Public Works and Safety and that any decision concerning the sewage system or
user charges of the Board of Public Works and Safety may be appealed to the
circuit court of the county under the appeal procedures provided for in the
Indiana Administrative Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 2000-13, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 2005-13, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-
06-10, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-1, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-15, passed
11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2016-30, passed 12-5-16; Am. Ord. 2024-26, passed 12-10-24)
§ 50.039 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Board is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate contracts
with customers in the sewage works where clearly definable reduction in cost to
the sewage works can be determined, and such reduction shall be limited to such
reduced costs.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-15, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2016-
30, passed 12-5-16; Am. Ord. 2024-26, passed 12-10-24)
§ 50.040 REVIEW OF FINANCIAL CONDITION OF UTILITIES.
   On or before each March 15 preceding the May 1 effective date as set forth
herein, the Common Council shall review the financial condition of the utility.
In its review of the utility's financial condition, the Common Council shall
consider several factors, including but not limited to the utility's operating
revenues and expenses, foreseeable capital outlays, and the utility's ability
to service ongoing debt obligations. In the event the Common Council, after
reviewing the utility's financial condition, makes a specific finding that the
rates and charges are unreasonable, the Common Council by a majority vote may
delay, reduce, or rescind the amount of the scheduled increase in rates and
charges.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 3-7-11)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 50.045 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in
§ 50.007 of this chapter within the time limitations specified by EPA, the
state, or the Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the
user's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review, and shall be
acceptable to the Superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The
review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of obtaining construction permits from IDEM and of
modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the
city under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.046 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Grease oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at their expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.047 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLANS.
   At least once every two years, the Superintendent shall evaluate whether
each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug control
plan. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for approval,
and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the Superintendent may develop such a
plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at
a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
50.100 of this chapter; and
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95; Am. Ord. 2010-16, passed 2-7-11)
§ 50.048 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Superintendent, and at such times as are established by the
Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate
§ 50.001 of this chapter or any other requirements established by the city. The
Superintendent may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater
discharge permits.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The
Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Superintendent. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The Superintendent
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION
§ 50.060 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Superintendent, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 60 days of the request. The
Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.061 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to
§ 50.062 of this chapter may continue to discharge for the time period
specified therein.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require other users to obtain wastewater
discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the wastewater
discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in
§§ 50.150 through
50.183 of this chapter. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not
relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state
pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state, and local law.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
Penalty, see § 50.171
§ 50.062 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
60 days after the date, apply to the Superintendent for a wastewater discharge
permit in accordance with
§ 50.064 of this chapter, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW
to continue after 180 days of the effective date of this chapter except in
accordance with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
Penalty, see § 50.171
§ 50.063 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to
the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with
§ 50.064 of this chapter, must be filed at least 60 days prior to the date upon
which any discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
Penalty, see § 50.171
§ 50.064 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit
a permit application. The Superintendent may require all users to submit as
part of an application the following information:
      (1)   All information required by
§ 50.095(B) of this chapter;
      (2)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
      (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
      (4)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (5)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (7)   Time and duration of discharges; and
      (8)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
Penalty, see § 50.171
§ 50.065 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be
signed by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
"I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations."
   (B)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the requirement
of this section must be submitted to the Superintendent prior to or together
with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95; Am. Ord. 2010-16, passed 2-7-11)
§ 50.066 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. Within 30 days of receipt of a complete
wastewater discharge permit application, the Superintendent will determine
whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. The Superintendent may
deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS
§ 50.075 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at the
discretion of the Superintendent. Each wastewater dis- charge permit will
indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.076 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is non-
transferable without prior notification to the city in accordance with
§ 50.079 of this chapter, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or
operator with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample
type based on federal, state, and local law; and
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
      (6)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimizing plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95; Am. Ord. 2010-16, passed 2-7-11)
§ 50.077 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPEALS.
   The Superintendent shall provide public notice of the issuance or
modification of a wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including the user,
may petition the Superintendent to reconsider the terms of a wastewater
discharge permit or permit modification within 30 days of notice of its
issuance.
   (A)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   (B)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
   (C)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
   (D)   If the Superintendent fails to act within 30 days, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not
to modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered final
administrative actions of the Superintendent for purposes of appeal to the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.078 APPEALS TO THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   Any person affected by the exercise of any discretionary authority delegated
by this subchapter to any official of the city and who objects to the decision
made or action taken by such official shall be entitled to a hearing before the
Board of Public Works and Safety upon such objection. The person desiring such
hearing before the Board shall file a written request for a hearing, including
a statement of his objections, with the Superintendent, who shall call the same
to the attention of the Board. Such requests must be filed with the
Superintendent within ten days from the date of the action being appealed. The
appeal shall be scheduled before the Board within 30 days after such request is
filed. Notice shall be given to the appellant identifying the time, place and
date of the appeal at least ten days prior to the scheduled date. The Board may
hear any evidence it deems relevant. After the hearing, the Board may confirm,
reverse or modify the decision or action. The order of the Board shall be
final. Such order shall be made within ten days after the hearing and shall be
in writing and sent to the appellant.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.079 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The Superintendent may modify a wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the city's POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.3;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.080 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 30 days advance notice to the
Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the waste- water discharge
permit transfer. The notice to the Superintendent must include a written
certification by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility's operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.081 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to
§ 50.099 of this chapter;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the facility
premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)    Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)    Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)    Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)    Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater
discharge permit to that user.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.082 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with
§ 50.064 of this chapter, a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the
user's existing wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.083 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Superintendent shall enter into an
intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) of this
section, the Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
   (C)   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by division (A) of this
section, shall contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits
which are at least as stringent as those set out in §§
50.001 to
50.012 of this chapter. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and
limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the city's
ordinance or local limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Superintendent: and which of
these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing municipality and
the Superintendent;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality's
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities of
users located within the contributing municipality's jurisdictional boundaries
for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed necessary
by the Superintendent; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal agreement.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.095 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) of this section. At least 90 days prior to commencement
of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall
submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the information listed in
division (B) of this section. A new source shall report the method of
pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new
source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of
pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
§
50.104 of this section.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
50.105 of this chapter.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
50.096 of this chapter.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
50.065 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.096 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
50.095(B)(7) of this chapter:
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.097 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in §
50.095(B)(4) through (6) of this chapter. For users subject to equivalent mass
or concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR
403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
50.065 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.098 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the Superintendent but in no case less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
50.065 of this chapter.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Superintendent,
using the procedures prescribed in §
50.105 of this chapter, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.099 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Superintendent of any planned significant changes
to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or
volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
   (A)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
50.064 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
50.066 of this chapter or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under
§
50.078 of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, planned significant changes include,
but are not limited to:
      (1)   Expansion or addition of wastewater generating production lines or
processes;
      (2)   Temporary increases of 20% or greater based on the previous year's
highest monthly flow;
      (3)   Annual average flow increases of 20% or greater based on the annual
average flow;
      (4)   The discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.100 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTw, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the
Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the location of
the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and
corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Superintendent
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95; Am. Ord. 2010-16, passed 2-7-11)
§ 50.101 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the Superintendent as the Superintendent may require.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.102 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. The user is not required to resample if the Superintendent
monitors at the user's facility at least once a month, or if the Superintendent
samples between the user's initial sampling and when the user receives the
results of this sampling or if the city has performed the sampling and analysis
in lieu of the industrial user.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95; Am. Ord. 2010-16, passed 2-7-11)
§ 50.103 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the waste stream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste
stream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this division need be submitted only once for
each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions
must be submitted under §
50.099 of this chapter. The notification requirement in this section does not
apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
50.095,
50.097,
50.098 of this chapter.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) of this
section, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity
of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
Superintendent, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90
days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.104 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
CFR part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by EPA.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.105 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in divisions (B) and (C) below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the Superintendent. Where time- proportional composite sampling
or grab sampling is authorized by the city, samples must be representative of
the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified
in 40 CFR Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples
collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited
in the laboratory or in the field, for volatile organics and oil and grease,
the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other
parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in approved
EPA methodologies may be authorized by the city, as appropriate. In addition,
grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (C)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance, reports in Section 6.1 and 6.3 (40 CFR 403.12(b) and (d)), a
minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil
and grease, sulfides and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which
historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which historical
sampling data are available, the Superintendent may authorize a lower minimum.
For the reports required by paragraphs Section 6.4 (40 CFR 403.12(e) and 403.12
(h)), the industrial user is required to collected the number of grab samples
necessary to assess and assure compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95; Am. Ord. 2010-16, passed 2-7-11)
§ 50.106 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.107 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 50.120 RIGHT OF ENTRY: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall
allow the Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
   (C)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
   (E)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.121 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure, or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the city designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the Superintendent may seek issuance of a search
warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 50.130 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits, and monitoring
programs, and from the Superintendent's inspection and sampling activities,
shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the user
specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Superintendents that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets
under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data. When requested and demonstrated by the
user furnishing a report that such information should be held confidential, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made
available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to
the NPDES program or pretreatment programs and in enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics and other "effluent data" as defined by 40 CFR 2.302 will not
be recognized as confidential information and will be available to the public
without restriction.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
§ 50.140 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in the largest daily newspaper
published in the municipality where the POTW is located, a list of the users
which, during the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The term significant
noncompliance shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement;
   (B)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter
during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement as defined by §
50.007 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other discharge violation of a pretreatment standard or
requirement as defined by §
50.007 (daily maximum, long term average, or narrative standard) that the
Superintendent believes has caused, alone or in combination with other
discharges, interference or pass through, including endangering the health of
POTW personnel or the general public;
   (D)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation(s) which the Superintendent determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95; Am. Ord. 2010-16, passed 2-7-11)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 50.150 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of violation. Within
30 days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a
plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.151 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary
compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to
be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period
specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect
as the administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
50.153 and
50.154 of this chapter and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.152 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear
before the Superintendent and show cause why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and
place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such
action, and a request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least ten days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on any
authorized representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar
against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.153 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge
directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time. If the
user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may
be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related
appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may
contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional
self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the amount of
pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the
deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement,
nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation,
including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be
a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.154 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or
that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the Superintendent may
issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such violations
and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.155 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to exceed $1,000. Such fines
shall be assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In the case of monthly or
other long term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day
during the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 60 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1½%) per month. A lien against the user's
property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit,
the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user's
appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto,
shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Assessments may be added to the user's next scheduled sewer service
charge and the city shall have such other collection remedies as may be
available for other service charges and fees.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.156 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user's discharge, after notice
and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of
the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the
environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent
may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
50.157 of this chapter are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §§
50.152 or
50.157 of this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.157 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
50.080 of this chapter, any user who violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
50.001 through
50.012 of this chapter.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
50.152 of this chapter why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of
this option by the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 50.170 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement the
Superintendent may petition a court of competent jurisdiction through the
City's Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this
chapter on activities of the user. The Superintendent may also seek such other
action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a user.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.171 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the city for a
maximum civil penalty of $2,500 per violation, per day. In the case of a
monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for
each day during the period of the violation.
   (B)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the city.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.172 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the city's enforcement response plan. However, the
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
§ 50.180 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater discharge
permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter,
a previous wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, unless such user first files a
satisfactory bond, payable to the city, in a sum not to exceed a value
determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.181 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater discharge
permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter,
a previous wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, unless the user first submits proof that
it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to
the POTW caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.182 WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, water service to the user may be severed.
Service will only recommence, at the user's expense, after it was
satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.183 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit,
or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement is
hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed
by the Superintendent. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be
subject to the provisions of the City Code of Ordinances governing such
nuisances, including reimbursing the city for any costs incurred in removing,
abating, or remedying the nuisance.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 50.190 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, "upset" means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) of this section are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceedings the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.191 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions or the specific
prohibitions in §§ 50.01 through 50.12 of this chapter if it can prove that it
did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the city was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.192 BYPASS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section:
      (1)   "Bypass" means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any
portion of a user's treatment facility.
      (2)   "Severe property damage" means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written report on
a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) of
this section.
      (2)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1) of this section.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 50.200 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the city's pretreatment program which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals; and
   (E)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
§ 50.201 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is invalidated by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be effected and shall continue
in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 5-1-95)
ILLICIT DISCHARGE CONTROL
§ 50.220 PURPOSE/INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of Greensburg, Indiana through the regulation
of non-storm water discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum
extent practicable as required by federal and state law. This subchapter
establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit process. The objectives of this subchapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.221 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following shall mean:
   "AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY." The City of Greensburg.
   "BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS)." Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good house keeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   "CITY OF GREENSBURG." The City of Greensburg, Indiana or duly authorized
officials acting on its behalf.
   "CLEAN WATER ACT." The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   "CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY." Activities subject to a Site Development Permit.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of 5,000
square feet or more. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing
and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
   "HAZARDOUS MATERIALS." Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   "ILLEGAL DISCHARGE." Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
50.230 of this subchapter.
   "ILLICIT CONNECTIONS."
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but
not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by the city.
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by the city.
   "INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY." Activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as
defined in 40 CFR, § 122.26 (b)(14) and 327 IAC 15-6 (Rule 6).
   "MS4." Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System.
   "MS4 COORDINATOR." The Superintendent of the City of Greensburg Public Owned
Treatment Works. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Storm
Water Discharge Permit means a permit issued by EPA or Indiana Department of
Environmental Management under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342
(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United
States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general
area-wide basis.
   "NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE." Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   "PERSON." Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
   "POLLUTANT." Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants
may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and
other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   "PREMISES." Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   "RIPARIAN AREAS." Are the green, vegetated areas on each side of streams and
rivers. They serve many important functions, including purifying water by
removing sediments and other contaminants; reducing the risk of flooding and
associated damage; reducing stream channel and streambank erosion; increasing
available water and stream flow duration by holding water in stream banks and
aquifers; supporting a diversity of plant and wildlife species; maintaining a
habitat for healthy fish populations; providing water, forage, and shade for
wildlife and livestock; and creating opportunities for recreationists to fish,
camp, picnic, and enjoy other activities.
   "STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM." Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   "STORM WATER." Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   "STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN." A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   "WASTEWATER." Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.222 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.223 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The MS4 Coordinator shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions
of this subchapter. Any powers granted or duties may be delegated in writing by
the Mayor of the city to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest
of or in the employment of the city.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.224 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter are hereby declared to be severable. If
any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this subchapter or the
application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be
held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or
application of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.225 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this subchapter
are minimum standards; therefore this subchapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.226 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of Illegal Discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including but not
limited to pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
storm water.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this subchapter:
            1.   Water line flushing or other potable water sources;
            2.   Landscape irrigation or lawn watering;
            3.   Diverted stream flows;
            4.   Rising ground water;
            5.   Ground water infiltration to storm drains;
            6.   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
            7.   Foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems);
            8.   Crawl space pumps;
            9.   Air conditioning condensation;
            10.   Springs;
            11.   Non-commercial washing of vehicles;
            12.   Natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows;
            13.   Swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one
PPM chlorine);
            14.   Fire fighting activities; and
            15.   Any other water source not containing pollutants.
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the city as being necessary
to protect public health and safety.
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the MS4 Coordinator prior to the time of the test.
         (d)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, or the Indiana Department of Environmental Management
provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the
permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and
provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm
drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of Illicit Connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this subchapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.227 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations. The City
of Greensburg may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a
person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or Waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps
as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or Waters of the
United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the Detection of Illicit Discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter
may have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce
an illicit discharge.
      (2)   The MS4 Coordinator will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the city Board of
Public Works for a reconsideration and hearing.
      (3)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
authorized MS4 Coordinator.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.228 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the MS4
Coordinator prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.229 MONITORING DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction
activity.
   (B)   Access to Facilities.
      (1)   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject
to regulation under this subchapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this subchapter. If a discharger has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access
to representatives of the city.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the city ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
      (3)   The city shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the authorized enforcement
agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's storm water
discharge.
      (4)   The city has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of this
subchapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to
discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the
permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or
required by this subchapter.
      (7)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is able to demonstrate probable
cause to believe that there may be a violation of this subchapter, or that
there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and
sampling program designed to verify compliance with this subchapter or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and
welfare of the community, then the city may seek issuance of a search warrant
from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.230 REQUIREMENTS TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   City of Greensburg will adopt requirements identifying best management
practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or
contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm drain
system, or waters of the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural
and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated
with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance
with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.231 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.232 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or water of the U.S. said
person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials
said person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the
occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-
hazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized enforcement agency
in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the city within three business days of the phone
notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.233 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of Violation.
      (1)   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this subchapter, the city may order compliance
by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may
require without limitation:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (d)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property; and
         (e)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
are required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.234 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   When the MS4 Coordinator finds that a person has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this subchapter, the MS4 Coordinator may fine such
person in an amount not to exceed $1,000. Such fines may be assessed on a per
violation, per day basis.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.235 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the MS 4 Coordinator. The notice of appeal must be received within 14 days from
the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the City
Board of Public Works shall take place within 45 days from the date of receipt
of the notice of appeal. The decision of the City Board of Public Works shall
be final.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.236 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days
of the decision of the City Board of Public Works upholding the decision of the
MS4 Coordinator, then representatives of the city shall enter upon the subject
private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow
the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for
the purposes set forth above.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.237 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within 60 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The
property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the
assessment within 14 days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner
as determined by the decision of the city or by the expiration of the time in
which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against
the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment. Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
become liable to the city by reason of such violation. The liability shall be
paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest shall accrue at the rate of
judgment rate interest in effect in the State of Indiana at the percent per
annum, and shall be accessed on the balance of the violation beginning on the
31st day following discovery of the violation.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.238 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter. If a person has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this subchapter, the
authorized enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent
injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further
violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.239 ALTERNATIVE COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this subchapter, the city may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory
action, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops,
creek cleanup, etc.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.240 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is
declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.241 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Any person that has violated or continues to violate this subchapter
shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and
shall be subject to a criminal penalty of $2,500 per violation per day.
   (B)   The city may recover all attorney's fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this subchapter, including sampling and
monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
§ 50.242 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this subchapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
within the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-6-04)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General
   
51.01   Excavations
   
51.02   Business, commercial and industrial water meters that are damaged or
function improperly
Rates
   
51.10   Rates for service rendered
   
51.11   Water tap fee
   
51.12   Metered rates
   
51.13   Minimum monthly charges
   
51.14   Temporary users
   
51.15   Public fire protection surcharge
   
51.16   Private fire protection and water service hose and sprinkler
connections
   
51.17   Collection or deferred payment charge
   
51.18   Reconnection charge
   
51.19   Customer application and deposit policy
   
51.20   Miscellaneous charges
   
51.21   Water availability fee
   
51.22   Review of financial conditions of utilities
   
51.23   Wholesale users (Decatur County rural water)
   
51.24   TIF credit
   
51.241   Special rate contracts
   
51.242   Potable bulk water sales
   
51.243   Granting of free service
Cross Connections
   
51.25   Definition
   
51.26   Cross connection prohibited; approval required for interconnection
   
51.27   Inspections; right to information
   
51.28   Discontinuance of water service
   
51.29   Backflow preventer required for certain consumers
   
51.30   Regulations supplemental to State Uniform Plumbing Code
Water Utility Rules and Regulations
   
51.40    Rules a part of contract
   
51.41   Definitions
   
51.42   Application and contract
   
51.43   Payment of rates
   
51.44   Service connections
   
51.45    Cross connections
   
51.46   Turn on and shut off
   
51.47   Sprinkling meters service
   
51.48   Swimming pools
   
51.49   Fire hydrants
   
51.50   Private fire protection
   
51.51   Disinfection
   
51.52    Amendments to rates and rules
   
51.53   Water works does not guarantee service
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Department of Water Works, see §§
33.60 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Water districts, territory covered, see IC 8-1.5-4-1 through 8-1.5-4-19
   Waterworks, see IC 36-9-2-14
GENERAL
§ 51.01 EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any cut, change or excavation in
any of the streets or alleys within the city for the purpose of tapping any
water or gas main or making any connection therewith, except under the same
terms and conditions as are approved in
Chapter 50 for connection with sewers.
('76 Code, § 25-1) (Ord. passed 3-7-38)
Penalty, see § 51.99
Cross-reference:
   Excavation by waterworks, see §
95.03
§ 51.02 BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL WATER METERS THAT ARE DAMAGED OR
FUNCTION IMPROPERLY.
   (A)   Repair and/or replacement.
      (1)   All damaged or improperly functioning meters, which are not the
property of the Municipal Water Department (1-inch and larger meters), will be
repaired or replaced at the expense of the property owner.
         (a)   The property owner must receive permission and approval from the
Water Department of the repair and/or replacement of any water meter.
         (b)   The Water Department must also be notified at least 24 hours in
advance of the repair or replacement so the Water Superintendent or designated
representative may inspect the job.
      (2)   If a water meter needs to be replaced or repaired, the Water Office
will notify the owner in writing, and the owner will have 30 days from the date
of the notice to have such replacement or repair made.
      (3)   When a water meter malfunctions, the Utility Office will charge a
flat-rate fee.
         (a)   This fee will be calculated by multiplying the average monthly
bill by two.
         (b)   Thereafter, an additional 10% will be added for each additional
month the meter remains inoperable or in disrepair.
      (4)   The average monthly bill will be calculated by adding the 12
consecutive months the meter was reading correctly, and dividing that figure by
12.
      (5)   If the property owner is notified by the Water Department that
repair or replacement of a water meter is needed, they will be given a notice
of 30 days to have such repair or replacement made.
      (6)   Example: If the meter malfunctions you will be notified the meter
is not registering properly. The property owner will then have 30 days to
replace or repair such meter. The first bill you receive will be nothing more
that the average bill of the previous 12 months. If the meter is still
inoperable during the next billing cycle, you will then be billed the average
monthly bill by two. Ten percent will be added to that bill every 30 days
thereafter.
   (B)   Right to inspect commercial/industrial water meters and internal water
systems.
      (1)   All commercial/industrial water meters (1 inch and larger) are the
responsibility of the property owner.
      (2)   In order to protect the public health, and to comply with American
Water Works Association (AWWA) and Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM) standards, the City Water Utility has the right to inspect
the customer’s water meter and internal water system.
   (C)   Meter testing and calibration.
      (1)   All 1-inch and larger meters are covered by this section.
      (2)   All 1-inch meters will be tested every six years or 300,000 cubic
foot, whichever comes first.
         (a)   Results of such tests will be forwarded to the Municipal Water
Plant.
         (b)   The Municipal Water Department has the facility to test 1-inch
meters (no meters larger than 1 inch), and may do so after an owner makes such
request and signs a liability waiver not holding the Municipal Water Department
responsible for any damage done to such meter.
      (3)   All 1-1/2-inch and larger meters will be tested every four years,
regardless of measured cubic feet on such meter. Results of such tests will
then be forwarded to the Municipal Water Plant.
      (4)   All compound meters may not register more than 2% (high or low)
during high, medium or low flow.
      (5)   All turbine meters may not register more than 3% (high or low)
during high, medium or low flow.
      (6)   All 1-inch and larger meters, which are 30 years old or were
installed prior to 1975, will be replaced regardless of cu/ft on the meter.
      (7)   The Municipal Water Plant will notify (by certified mail) all 1-
inch and larger meter users when the required tests are to be done.
(Ord. 2005-18, passed 11-7-05)
RATES
§ 51.10 RATES FOR SERVICE RENDERED.
   The rates and charges set out in this chapter, based on the use of water
supplied by the waterworks system, shall be applicable for the use of and the
service rendered by the waterworks system of the city.
(‘76 Code, § 25-105) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-29-19; Am. Ord. 2021-23,
passed 12-6-21)
§ 51.11 WATER TAP FEE.
   (A) A tap charge shall be collected from each customer, prior to connection
to the water system, in an amount sufficient to reimburse the city for the
labor and materials necessary for tapping the main and installation of service
from the main to the curb stop and the cost of furnishing and installing a
suitable water meter.
   (B) The following connection or tap-on fees shall be charged by the city
waterworks system:
 
Connection or Tap-on   Fee
   5/8 inch - 3/4 in$922.00
   1 inch           $1,000.00
   Larger than 1 inc$1,230.00, plus materials
Water tap inspection   $30.00
 
(Ord. 1977-3, passed 2-7-77; Am. Ord., passed 8-23-89; Am. Ord.
2002-21, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2005-12, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-06-11,
passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-14, passed 11-4-
13; Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-29-19; Am. Ord. 2021-23, passed 12-6-21; Am.
Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-14-22; Am. Ord. 2024-25, passed 12-10-24)
§ 51.12 METERED RATES.
   For the use of and service rendered by the city waterworks system, there
shall be and are hereby established, based on the use of water it supplies, the
following rates and charges.
Metered Rates per Month (per 100 Cubic Feet)
Cubic Feet Effective July 1, 2025 January 1, 2026 January 1, 2027
Metered Rates per Month (per 100 Cubic Feet)
Cubic Feet  Effective July 1, 2025 January 1, 2026 January 1, 2027
First 500   $8.21                  $8.79           $9.38
Next 1,500  $7.65                  $8.20           $8.74
Next 2,500  $7.23                  $7.75           $8.26
Next 7,500  $6.32                  $6.77           $7.21
Next 18,000 $4.53                  $4.85           $5.17
Over 30,000 $3.54                  $3.79           $4.04
 
(‘76 Code, § 25-106) (Ord. 1973-1, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 1981-14,
passed 10-5-81: Am. Ord. 1989-9, passed 6-5-89; Am. Ord. 2002-21, passed 7-1-
02; Am. Ord. 2005-12, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-06-11, passed 6-19-07; Am.
Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-14, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2019-11,
passed 4-29-19; Am. Ord. 2021-23, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-
14-22; Am. Ord. 2024-25, passed 12-10-24)
§ 51.13 MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGES.
   The following monthly minimum charges, based on meter size, shall be charged
each user of the city waterworks system:
 
Meter size  Usage allowed  Minimum Monthly Charge
(inches)    (cubic feet)   Effective July 1, January 1, 2026 January 1, 2027
                           2025
3/4 or less 300            $24.63            $26.37          $28.12
1           637            $51.53            $55.19          $58.84
1-1/2       1,270          $99.95            $107.03         $114.12
2           2,658          $203.38           $217.80         $232.22
3           5,862          $422.63           $452.59         $482.56
 
4  10,707 $728.58   $780.24   $831.90
6  27,407 $1,509.67 $1,616.71 $1,723.76
8  48,600 $2,285.61 $2,447.67 $2,609.74
10 75,900 $3,251.70 $3,482.27 $3,712.83
 
(‘76 Code, § 25-107) (Ord. 1973-1, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 1981-14, passed 10-
5-81; Am. Ord. 1989-9, passed 6-5-89 Am. Ord. 2002-21, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord.
2005-12, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-06-11, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-2,
passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-14, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-29-
19; Am. Ord. 2021-23, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-14-22; Am.
Ord. 2024-25, passed 12-10-24)
§ 51.14 TEMPORARY USERS.
   Water furnished to temporary users, such as contractors, shall be charged on
the basis of the metered rates set forth in this subchapter as estimated and
established by the waterworks company.
('76 Code, § 25-112) (Ord. 1973-1, passed 2-5-73)
§ 51.15 PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION.
Meter Size (inches) Monthly Surcharge
                    Effective July 1, 2025 January 1, 2026 January 1, 2027
Meter Size (inches) Monthly Surcharge
                    Effective July 1, 2025 January 1, 2026 January 1, 2027
5/8 - 3/4           $5.69                  $6.10           $6.50
1                   $12.99                 $13.91          $14.83
1-1/2               $29.59                 $31.69          $33.78
2                   $50.89                 $54.50          $58.11
3                   $116.78                $125.06         $133.34
4                   $207.60                $222.32         $237.04
6                   $489.91                $524.65         $559.38
8                   $871.96                $933.79         $995.61
10                  $1,361.88              $1,458.44       $1,555.01
 
(‘76 Code, § 25-108) (Ord. 1973-1, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 1981-14, passed 10-
5-81; Am. Ord. 1989-9, passed 6-5-89; Am. Ord. 2001-21, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord.
2005-12, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-06-11, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-2,
passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-14, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-29-
19; Am. Ord. 2021-23, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-14-22; Am.
Ord. 2024-25, passed 12-10-24)
§ 51.16 PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION AND WATER SERVICE HOSE AND SPRINKLER
CONNECTIONS.
   The following schedule of charges shall be levied annually for private fire
protection and water service hose and sprinkler connections:
Per annum Effective July 1, 2025 January 1, 2026 January 1, 2027
Per annum                    Effective July 1, January 1, 2026 January 1, 2027
                             2025
Fire hydrants                $1,414.35         $1,514.63       $1,614.92
Fire hose connection         $510.44           $546.64         $582.83
Sprinkler 2 inch connection  $160.32           $171.69         $183.05
         3 inch connection  $316.23           $338.66         $361.08
         4 inch connection  $635.49           $680.55         $725.61
         6 inch connection  $1,059.93         $1,135.08       $1,210.24
         8 inch connection  $1,340.39         $1,435.44       $1,530.48
         10 inch connection $2,123.17         $2,273.71       $2,424.26
 
(‘76 Code, § 25-109) (Ord. 1973-1, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 1981-14, passed 10-
5-81; Am. Ord. 1989-9, passed 6-5-89; Am. Ord. 2001-21, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord.
2005-12, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-06-11, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-2,
passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-14, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-29-
29; Am. Ord. 2021-23, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-14-22; Am.
Ord. 2024-25, passed 12-10-24)
§ 51.17 COLLECTION OR DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGE.
   (A)   All bills not paid by the seventeenth day of the month, as stated in
such bills, shall be subject to a collection or deferred payment charge of 10%.
   (B)   For all payments by check, the city will impose a returned check fee
for any check that is returned with insufficient funds or is not honored within
ten days of submittal to the utilities office. This fee will be the greater of
$27.50 or 5% of the amount due but shall not exceed $250. The city is also
required to refer all dishonored checks for which it is not able to obtain
payment to the prosecuting attorney for the county in which the check was
initially received no later than 90 days after the receipt of the check.
(‘76 Code, § 25-110) (Ord. 1973-1, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 1977-5, passed 3-17-
77; Am. Ord. 1980-19, passed 12-23-80; Am. Ord. 2001-21, passed 7-1-02; Am.
Ord. 2005-12, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-06-11, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord.
2010-2, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-14, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2019-11,
passed 4-29-19; Am. Ord. 2021-23, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-
14-22; Am. Ord. 2024-25, passed 12-10-24)
§ 51.18 RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   There shall be a charge for reconnection of water service, following
disconnection for reason of nonpayment of water bills, in the amount of $40.
(‘76 Code, § 25-111) (Ord. 1973-1, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 1985-6, passed 5-6-
85; Am. Ord. 2002-21, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-29-19; Am. Ord.
2021-23, passed 12-6-21)
§ 51.19 CUSTOMER APPLICATION AND DEPOSIT POLICY.
   (A)   General. New or moving customers applying for utility service shall do
so in person at the Business Office; and shall pay a cash deposit and/or an
assigned certificate of deposit (CD) or surety bond; or comply with the
creditworthy criteria (written confirmation from previous utility companies),
as specified below, before any utility service will be rendered. The applicant
must submit and sign the "application for utility service", and provide proof
of identification (driver's license preferred). The "application for utility
service" will be maintained by the Municipal Water and Wastewater Utility
Business Office. The application shall include interest and litigation expense
provisions. If the applicant is renting, the property owner or manager shall
sign the "landlord certification" section on the application in person or
provide a copy of their signed lease agreement with the property owner. The
Business Office will sign the application, which acknowledges receipt of the
completed application, and compliance with the policy as stated herein. Copies
of this policy and related forms shall be available at the Utility Business
Office.
   (B)   Water deposit requirements (water only customers).
Number of People in Household Residential - Rental or Owner Deposit Amount
Occupied
Number of People in Household Residential - Rental or Owner Deposit Amount
Occupied
1                                                           $ 50
2                                                           50
3                                                           50
4                                                           60
5                                                           80
6                                                           90
7                                                           105
8                                                           120
9                                                           132
10                                                          146
Commercial                                                  100
Industrial                                                  500
Municipal                                                   no charge
 
   (C)   Sewer deposit requirements (sewer only customers).
Number of People in Household Residential - Rental or Owner Deposit Amount
Occupied
Number of People in Household Residential - Rental or Owner Deposit Amount
Occupied
1                                                           $ 60
2                                                           65
3                                                           85
4                                                           105
5                                                           115
6                                                           125
7                                                           130
8                                                           135
9                                                           140
10                                                          150
Commercial                                                  100
Industrial                                                  500
Municipal                                                   no charge
 
   (D)   Water and sewer deposit requirements (water and wastewater customers).
Number of People in Household Residential - Rental or Owner Deposit Amount
Occupied
Number of People in Household Residential - Rental or Owner Deposit Amount
Occupied
1                                                           $100
2                                                           110
3                                                           120
4                                                           130
5                                                           140
6                                                           150
7                                                           160
8                                                           170
9                                                           180
10                                                          190
Commercial                                                  200
Industrial                                                  1,000
Municipal                                                   no charge
 
   (E)   Residential; general.
      (1)   When a previously terminated account (owner-occupied or renter)
returns to establish a new account after a period of time has elapsed, the
deposit on those accounts which have previously established a negative credit
history (see below for "History defined") with the Municipal Water Works and
the Municipal Wastewater Works, may be double the regular deposit as stated
above and any amounts previously written off as bad debts must be paid and any
collection or legal fees paid to outside agencies must be reimbursed before a
new account will be established.
      (2)   If an active account (owner occupied or renter) continually becomes
or remains past due (determined by multiple application of penalty charges
against the account), or service has been discontinued due to non-payment, a
deposit equal to double the schedule established above may be required for
continuation or reestablishment of service.
   (F)   Residential; owner occupied.
      (1)   The owner occupied residential deposit shall normally be required
before utility service will be rendered. The deposit shall be waived, however,
and the owner deemed creditworthy, if said owner/applicant provides written
confirmation from his or her preceding utility company (the Municipal Water
Works and the Municipal Wastewater Works shall be considered a preceding
utility company), going back two years, verifying that the applicant:
         (a)   Has been a customer of said previous utility within the past two
years;
         (b)   Is not past due on any bill at this time for service rendered by
said previous utility;
         (c)   Within the past one year, did not have more than one bill which
was delinquent to any utility; and
         (d)   Within the past two years, did not have a service disconnected
by any utility for non-payment of a bill for services rendered by said utility.
      (2)   If the owner/applicant has not had service with any utility company
within the past two years, he or she must make a deposit as set forth in
division (B) above. After two years, the deposit may be refunded subject to the
conditions set forth in division (J) of this section.
   (G)   Residential; rental.
      (1)   A residential rental deposit shall always be required before
utility service will be rendered.
      (2)   When a rental account moves to a new account, a new "application
for utility service" shall be required. The old deposit will be applied to the
current and final bills of the old account, and the balance, if any, will be
refunded. If the old account is past due on the moving date, a new account will
not be established until the old account is brought current. A new deposit is
required for each new service. If a customer leaves an unpaid bill the deposit
required on the new account may be double the regular deposit requirement.
      (3)   If, after the final bill is prepared, the old deposit is not
sufficient to cover the remaining charges on the old account and the old
account becomes past due, the new account will be subject to service
termination as though the two accounts were one.
   (H)   Non-residential; general.
      (1)   Commercial and industrial accounts shall be required to put down a
deposit or, an assigned certificate of deposit (CD) or surety bond before
utility service(s) will be rendered. If an account continually becomes or
remains past due (determined by multiple application of penalty charges against
the account), a deposit equal to double the schedule established above may be
required for continuation of service.
      (2)   If an account is disconnected because of non-payment, the deposit
and/or certificate of deposit (CD) or surety bond may be used to pay all
existing charges. Upon reestablishing the required deposit balance (a new
certificate of deposit or surety bond may be required in order to increase the
amount covered), the payment of reconnect charges and the payment of any
charges not covered by the deposit and/or certificate of deposit or surety
bond, services will be restored.
   (I)   History defined. Having a “HISTORY OF BEING PAST DUE" or a "NEGATIVE
CREDIT HISTORY" is hereby defined as follows:
      (1)   Having been past due on more than one occurrence during the
proceeding twelve month period;
      (2)   Having any service disconnected as a result of non-payment during
the preceding 24 month period; and/or
      (3)   Being past due on the date service is terminated. (This includes
those customers who request service be terminated at one location and connected
at a new location as a result of moving to said new location.)
   (J)   Refunding of deposits.
      (1)   Cash deposits will be applied to the customer's final bill after
which the balance, if any, will be refunded. Any balance due after application
of the deposit shall be due and payable on or before the date specified on the
final bill.
      (2)   Residential owner occupied cash deposits may be refunded after two
years, if requested and, if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Within the past one year, the owner/occupant did not have more
than one bill, which became delinquent; and
         (b)   Within the past two years, the owner/occupant did not have a
service disconnected for non-payment.
      (3)   Non-residential certificates of deposit (CD) will be returned to
the owner with a cancellation of the assignment within a reasonable time after
all final charges are paid.
      (4)   Non-residential surety bonds will be canceled and returned to the
principal within a reasonable time after all final charges are paid.
      (5)   If the Municipal Water Works deposit has a balance remaining after
that utility's charges are satisfied, said balance shall be applied to other
charges not so satisfied before any amount of the deposit is refunded.
      (6)   Interest will not be paid on any part of the deposit.
   (K)   Procedure and priority for the receipt and application.
      (1)   All monies received toward the payment of services, including water
and wastewater meter deposits or any payments on accounts for the Municipal
Water Works and the Municipal Wastewater Works shall be applied and paid in the
following priority:
         (a)   First. To any and all outstanding water service bills;
         (b)   Second. To any outstanding sanitation charges; and
         (c)   Third. The remaining portions shall be applied to any wastewater
charges.
      (2)   The Municipal Water and Wastewater Works and the Clerk-Treasurer
are required to apply the revenues according to division (1) above, with any
and all revenue received by them for water, sanitation and wastewater charges.
(Ord. 1985-6, passed 5-6-85; Am. Ord. 2001-28, passed 11-6-01; Am. Ord. 2007-
09-25, passed 11-5-07)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer System,
Ch. 50
§ 51.20 MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES.
   The following miscellaneous charges may be charged by the city waterworks
system:
 
Reconnection/disconnection fee $50.00
After hours service call       $50.00
Meter test                     $92.00
Two-hour test                  $20.00
Bad check charge               Greater of $27.50 or 5% of returned check/NTE,
                               but not more than $250
Mole shot                      $245.00
 
(Ord. 2002-21, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2005-12, passed 8-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-
06-11, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2010-2, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-14, passed
11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-29-19; Am. Ord. 2021-23, passed 12-6-21;
Am. Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-14-22; Am. Ord. 2024-25, passed 12-10-24)
§ 51.21 WATER AVAILABILITY FEE.
   (A)   No connection to the city's waterworks system shall be allowed until a
payment of a water availability fee has been made to the city. "Availability
fee" is the charge to a user for a new connection to or additional water usage
from an existing connection to the city's waterworks system and is charged as a
pro rata net cost of construction of all water distribution mains and
appurtenances to serve the property of the connecting user and is charged in
return for the city making available to such user the city's water supply
system consisting of all facilities and operations necessary to provide potable
water to such user. The water availability fee shall be charged in addition to
the water-tap-on or connection fee and the water tap inspection fee as outlined
by city ordinance. The amount of the availability fee shall be dependent on the
water meter size and shall be as follows:
5/8 or 3/4 inch meter $ 955
1 inch meter          2,390
1-1/2 inch meter      4,775
2 inch meter          7,640
3 inch meter          14,325
4 inch meter          23,875
6 inch meter          47,750
8 inch meter          76,400
10 inch meter         109,825
 
   (B)   Water line extensions to accommodate a single-family or multi- family
dwelling, municipal, commercial, or industrial establishment shall be the
responsibility of the developer or owner of such property.
   (C)   Payment of the water availability fee shall be made at the following
times:
      (1)   For new construction connections, the water availability fees shall
be paid in full at the time of requesting a building permit and must be paid in
full before issuance of a building permit. The amount to be paid at the time of
permit issuance shall be the amount set forth in division (A) for the water
meter size specified at the time of permit issuance for the usage and building
type being proposed at the time of the permit request; and
      (2)   For all existing water connections with additional water usage not
requiring plat or plan approval, the water availability fee shall be paid in
full before the additional use is made to the city’s waterworks system.
      (3)   The individual seeking the building permit bears the responsibility
to ensure payment of the applicable fees prior to application for a building
permit and no permit will be issued without confirmation of payment of the
availability fees.
      (4)   This amendment to the ordinance shall be retroactive such that all
prior plat or plan approvals obtained prior to this amendment where such fees
have not been previously paid are not required to be paid until such time of
requesting a building permit and must be paid in full before the issuance of a
building permit. The amount to be paid at the time of permit issuance shall be
the amount set forth in division (A) for the water meter size specified at the
time of permit issuance for the usage and building type being proposed at the
time of the permit request.
      (5)   For all parcels upon which the fees were previously paid at the
time of the plat or plan approval, no additional fees will be assessed at the
time of requesting a building permit, provided that the same water meter size
is installed as was used to compute the original fee amount. If a larger meter
is requested at the time of issuance of the building permit, an additional fee
in the amount of the difference in fees for the meter size actually installed
versus the meter size used to compute the initial fee, based upon the amounts
set forth in division (A) at the time of permit issuance.
(Ord. 2006-23, passed 11-6-06; Am. Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2015-
18, passed 1-4-16)
§ 51.22 REVIEW OF FINANCIAL CONDITION OF UTILITIES.
   On or before each March 15 preceding the May 1 effective date as set forth
herein, the Common Council shall review the financial condition of the utility.
In its review of the utility's financial condition, the Common Council shall
consider several factors, including but not limited to the utility's operating
revenues and expenses, foreseeable capital outlays, and the utility's ability
to service ongoing debt obligations. In the event the Common Council, after
reviewing the utility's financial condition, makes a specific finding that the
rates and charges are unreasonable, the Common Council by a majority vote may
delay, reduce, or rescind the amount of the scheduled increase in rates and
charges.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 3-7-11)
§ 51.23 WHOLESALE USERS (DECATUR COUNTY RURAL WATER).
 
Per Month          Effective July 1, 2025 January 1, 2026 January 1, 2027
Per 100 cubic feet $3.08                  $3.30           $3.51
 
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-29-19; Am. Ord. 2021-
23, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-14-22; Am. Ord. 2024-25, passed
12-10-24)
§ 51.24 TIF CREDIT.
   Waterworks customers shall receive a credit applied towards their monthly
bill in recognition of the portion of principal and interest on outstanding
waterworks revenue bonds which are paid from TIF revenues. The monthly credit
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Metered rates per month (per 100 cu. ft.).
 
First 500 cubic feet    $0.73
Next  1,500 cubic feet  $0.69
Next  2,500 cubic feet  $0.65
Next  7,500 cubic fees  $0.57
Next  18,000 cubic feet $0.41
Over  30,000 cubic feet $0.32
 
Minimum Monthly Charge Usage Allowed Per Month
Minimum Monthly Charge Usage Allowed     Per Month
3/4 inch meter or less 300 cubic feet    $2.20
1 inch meter           637 cubic feet    $4.61
1-1/2 inch meter       1,270 cubic feet  $8.95
2 inch meter           2,658 cubic fees  $18.22
3 inch meter           5,862 cubic feet  $37.88
4 inch meter           10,707 cubic feet $65.30
6 inch meter           27,407 cubic feet $135.09
8 inch meter           48,600 cubic feet $204.46
10 inch meter          75,900 cubic feet $290.84
 
   (B)   Fire protection.
Public Fire Protection Surcharge Per Month
Public Fire Protection Surcharge Per Month
3/4 inch meter or less           $0.51
1 inch meter                     $1.16
1-1/2 inch meter                 $2.65
2 inch meter                     $4.56
3 inch meter                     $10.46
4 inch meter                     $18.59
6 inch meter                     $43.86
8 inch meter                     $78.07
10 inch meter                    $121.93
 
 
Private Fire Protection and Water Service Hose and Sprinkler Per Annum
Connection
Fire hydrants - per annum                                    $126.65
Fire hose connection - per annum                             $45.70
 
 
Sprinkler          Per Annum
2 inch connection  $14.35
3 inch connection  $28.35
4 inch connection  $56.90
6 inch connection  $94.90
8 inch connection  $120.00
10 inch connection $190.10
 
   (C)   Wholesale users (Decatur County Rural Water).
 
                Per Month
Per 100 cu. ft. $0.27
 
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-29-19; Am. Ord. 2022-15, passed 6-14-22; Am. Ord. 2024-
25, passed 12-10-24)
§ 51.241 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Water Board is authorized to enter into special rate contracts with
customers of the waterworks where clearly definable reductions in cost to the
waterworks can be determined, and such a reduction shall be limited to such
reduced costs.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 4-29-19; Am. Ord. 2024-25, passed 12-10-24)
§ 51.242 POTABLE BULK WATER SALES.
   The Water Board also hereby authorizes implementation of bulk water sales
with the rate of $0.18 per gallon with a 500-gallon minimum purchase.
(Ord. 2024-25, passed 12-10-24)
§ 51.243 GRANTING OF FREE SERVICE.
   The Board shall not grant free service or use of the water treatment system
to any person, group, or entity. It is necessary for an area or parcel of real
estate to be annexed to the city to receive water service.
(Ord. 2024-25, passed 12-10-24)
CROSS CONNECTIONS
§ 51.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CROSS CONNECTION." Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the city
water system, and the other, water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems.
(Ord. 1984-20, passed 1-7-85)
§ 51.26 CROSS CONNECTION PROHIBITED; APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR INTERCONNECTION.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established, or maintain or permit to be maintained, any cross connection.
   (B)   No interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of the
city unless the private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of the supply shall have been approved by the Municipal
Water Utility and by the Environmental Management Board in accordance with Rule
320 IAC 3-9.
(Ord. 1984-20, passed 1-7-85)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.27 INSPECTIONS; RIGHT TO INFORMATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Greensburg Municipal Water Utility to
cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water
system where cross connections with the public water system is deemed possible.
The frequency of inspections and reinspections based on potential health
hazards involved shall be as established by the Municipal Water Utility.
   (B)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the Municipal
Water Utility shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine any property served by a connection to the public water system of the
city for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any
property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping systems on the property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross connections.
(Ord. 1984-20, passed 1-7-85)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.28 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The Municipal Water Utility is authorized and directed to discontinue
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of this
subchapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist.
   (B)   Water service to the property shall not be restored until the cross
connection or cross connections has been eliminated in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   If it is deemed by the Municipal Water Utility that a cross connection
or any emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the City
Clerk and delivered to the consumer's premises, service may be immediately
discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten
days of this emergency discontinuance.
(Ord. 1984-20, passed 1-7-85)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.29 BACKFLOW PREVENTER REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN CONSUMERS.
   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals, mortuaries,
wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous users shall
install and maintain a reduced-pressure-principle backflow preventer in the
main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow preventer
must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding or
freezing.
(Ord. 1984-20, passed 1-7-85)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.30 REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENTAL TO STATE UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE.
   This subchapter does not supersede the State Uniform Plumbing Code, but is
supplementary to it.
(Ord. 1984-20, passed 1-7-85)
WATER UTILITY RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 51.40 RULES A PART OF CONTRACT.
   The following rules and regulations shall be a part of the contract with
every consumer who uses water supplied by this Water Utility, and every such
consumer shall be considered as having expressed his or her consent to be bound
thereby.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
§ 51.41 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this subchapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
   "CONSUMER." The person, firm, corporation or association having an interest,
either as owner or tenant of any premises, which is supplied with water by the
Utility.
   "UTILITY." The Greensburg Water Utility.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
§ 51.42 APPLICATION AND CONTRACT.
   (A)   All applications for water service must be made at the office of the
Utility located at 314 W. Washington Street, Greensburg, Indiana. The consumer
proposed to be connected for service must complete and sign an application form
prior to service being given.
   (B)   When application for water service is made, the service, together with
the charges and rates therefore, shall begin on the date of the completion of
the service connection by the Utility.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
§ 51.43 PAYMENT OF RATES.
   (A)   Meters will be read monthly, when possible. All bills are due payable
by the 17th day of the month following that in which service was rendered. If
the bill is paid after the 17th a penalty will be imposed. (See current rate
ordinances.)
   (B)   If a bill is not paid by the 17th day of the second month following
that in which service was rendered the service will be shut off. The water will
not be turned on until all back charges and a turn on fee of approved amount
has been paid. Turn on's shall be made during business hours. No turn on's
shall be made after business hours without permission from proper authority of
the Utility.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.44 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Service connections to the city mains 3/4-inch or 1-inch (minimum 3/4-
inch) shall be made by the Utility. This connection will extend to a meter pit
location determined by the Utility to the consumers' property line or easement
right-of-way. Whenever possible, meters must be placed on adjoining property
lines so that one tap can feed two meters in the same tile. When this method is
used, a one-inch water tap will be made; therefore, each resident shall pay a
tap on fee.
   (B)   Service connections larger than 1-inch for commercial, industrial or
multiple residential structures shall be made by the contractor with the
approval and inspection of the Utility. The contractor/engineer shall determine
the size of all connections and the size of the meter. The Utility will supply
5/8-inch and 1-inch meters. Anything larger than 1-inch is to be purchased and
installed by the property owner. The installation shall be inspected by a
Utility employee. All connections made to the Utility system, regardless of who
makes them will have a tap fee/inspection fee and an availability fee charge of
an approved amount per connection. This charge shall be paid in full before
service will be furnished.
   (C)   All new service installations shall be made with type K copper (3/4-
inch is tap fee anything larger is time, material, and tap fee.) A 2-inch
service may be type K copper or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) SDR-21 200 PSI, larger
services shall be made of PVC-900 150 PSI. All buried copper services must be
joined with compression fittings prior to the meter or stop and waste valve.
Locator wire #10 solid THHN (THWN) is to be installed with all PVC pipe.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever it becomes necessary to extend a main water line into a
subdivision, plot of ground, or group of lots owned or purchased by a builder
or contractor, the extension will be made at no expense to the water
department. A minimum of 8-inch for residential and 12-inch for industrial and
commercial is to be ran unless approved by the water superintendent. The
developer shall loop their mains in a manner approved by the Utility. Only C-
900 PVC of required size will be used in a new main construction. The owner/
developer or contractor will also pay the water department a tap fee and an
availability fee in the amount of the current rates and charges. The water
mains must be tested by the owner/developer and a copy of the results must be
submitted to a Water Utility representative for approval. After the approval of
the lines and after the Board of Works accepts the water lines by a deed of
dedication, the owner will guarantee the water lines for one year from the date
of dedication. The city may assume responsibility for the water lines following
the one year guarantee provided there have been no problems incurred within
that year. If so, the responsibility will be revisited on a month to month
basis.
      (2)   Fire hydrants located in subdivisions will be charged for private
fire protection from the time of approval of the lines until the end of the one
year warranty period, regardless of when the deed of dedication was presented
to the city.
   (E)   All persons taking water shall have their plumbing fitted with shut
off valves at some convenient place where the property owner's line enters the
residence or building. This allows the consumer to shut off the water source
when needed repairs are required. At no time is the consumer or property owner
allowed to shut off the water in the meter pit. It is especially stipulated and
agreed that no claim shall be made against the Utility by reason of the
breaking of any service pipe. If leaks are reported after due notice to the
consumer or property owner, and the same is not repaired, service may be
discontinued 72 hours after notification from city personnel as designated by
the Water Superintendent. The Water Superintendent can terminate or initiate
repair for any leak that he or she deems as an emergency in which endangers the
personal property, public health, or the environment.
   (F)   The Utility in every instance reserves the right, at its option, to
designate and prescribe the size and kind of service connections. This pertains
to either new or replacement of old connections. The Utility is responsible for
the line from the main to the meter pit and/or shut off valve. The consumer is
responsible from the meter or shut off valve to the residence or building. Any
excavating is subject to the Indiana Underground Plant Protection Service laws.
   (G)   Consumers having boilers and/or pressure vessels receiving a supply of
water from the Utility must have a check valve on the water supply line and a
vacuum valve on the steam line to prevent collapse in case the water supply is
discontinued or interrupted for any reason, with or without notice.
   (H)   Should a consumer at any time question the accuracy of their 3/4-inch
or 1-inch meter, the Utility will, upon written application, remove and test
the meter. Fees for this service are listed in the current rates and charges
ordinance. If the test shows that the meter has been over-registering more than
2%, the above fee for each meter shall be returned to the consumer and the bill
rendered, based on the last reading of such meters, shall be corrected
accordingly. If the test shows that the meter is not over-registering more than
2%, the bill rendered, based on the last reading of such meter or meters shall
be found correct. The Utility reserves the right to remove and test any 3/4-
inch or 1-inch meter, at any time, and if such meter is found to be inaccurate,
to substitute another meter of the same size in its place, either permanently
or temporarily. Should any consumer, at any time, request a two hour meter test
to check for leaks within the premise, the Utility will do so for a fee listed
in our current rates and charges ordinance.
   (I)   All water passing through a meter will be charged for, whether used or
wasted. The quantity of water recorded by the meter shall be conclusive on both
the Utility and the consumer, except when the meter has been found defective or
ceases to register. No allowance will, under any circumstances, be made for
water used, lost or wasted through leaks, carelessness, neglect, or otherwise,
after the same has passed through the meter.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.45 CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Definition of a cross connection is any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the utilities water system, and the other, water from a
private source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or
chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two
systems.
   (B)   No installation of potable water supply piping shall be made in such a
manner that it will be possible for used, unclean, polluted, or contaminated
water, mixtures, or substances or enter any portion of such piping from any
tank, receptacle, equipment, or plumbing when any such tank, receptacle,
equipment, or plumbing fixture is flooded, or subject to pressure in excess of
the pressure in the hot or cold water piping.
   (C)   No person shall make a connection or allow one to exist between pipes
or conduits carrying domestic water supplied by any public or private water
service system, and any pipes, conduits or fixtures containing or carrying
water from any other source or containing or carrying water which has been used
for any purpose whatsoever, unless a backflow preventer is provided. The
approval of the Indiana Department of Environmental Management must be obtained
before any connection is made between the domestic supply and any contaminated,
polluted, or auxiliary water system.
   (D)   To ensure that the proper precautions are taken, the Utility shall
determine the degree of hazard to the public water system, following guidelines
developed by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management, must be
obtained before any connection is made between the domestic supply and any
contaminated, polluted, or auxiliary water system.
   (E)   The consumer shall have the responsibility of preventing any
pollutants and/or contaminants from entering his or her potable water system,
or the public potable water system. The consumer shall be liable for all damage
caused to meters, service lines, mains or any other portion of the water
distribution system by back pressure. The consumer's responsibility starts at
the point of delivery from the public water supply and includes all water
conditioning equipment and piping. The consumer shall be required to maintain
each backflow preventer in good working condition and shall provide the
necessary inspection to assure that the device is operating properly.
   (F)   The Utility shall terminate water service to any property where any
connection in violation of this section exists and to take such other
precautionary measures deemed to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water system. Water service shall be terminated only after reasonable
notice is served on the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises
where a violation is found suspected to exist. Water service to such property
shall not be restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in
compliance with provisions of this section.
   (G)   That all consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced- pressure-principle backflow preventer and
they must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding
or freezing.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.46 TURN ON AND SHUT OFF.
   (A)   The stop valve on any and all connections shall not in any way be used
by the consumer for turning on and shutting off the water supply. All such
turning on and shutting off of the water supply by the consumer shall be with a
separate stopcock located on or in the house to be serviced. All turning on and
shutting off of the water supply at the meter and with the meter wrench shall
be done exclusively by the Utility.
   (B)   There shall be no separate charge made for shutting off the water
supply to any premises unless it is after regular business hours. But in every
instance, whether such shut off was originally made for non-payment of bills or
other violations of the rules of the Utility, the charge for turning on the
water supply is listed in the current rates and charges ordinance, payable in
advance. No turn on shall be made after business hours without permission from
proper authority of the Utility.
   (C)   In case of accidents, break-downs, shortage of water supply or any
causes beyond the Utility's control, or because of any act or omission on the
part of public authorities, or their agents, or in case of the making of
repairs, renewals or replacements, the Utility reserves the right to shut off
the water supply from anyone or any number of premises, without notice and
shall in no manner be held responsible for any consequences of such shut off.
When shut off of the water supply is made in accordance with this division,
such shutting off of the water shall not entitle the consumer to any abatement
or deduction in or from the water service charges, nor to any refund on any
such charges paid in advance during or for the time of such shut off. The
Utility will give notice, in the manner deemed in its discretion to be most
effective of any shut off of the water supply whenever and wherever the giving
of such notice is practicable, but nothing in these rules shall be construed to
require the giving of such notice under any circumstances. Every effort to give
continuous and uninterrupted service is made by the Utility, but nothing in
these rules contained shall be construed as a guarantee or covenant or
agreement of the Utility to give such continuous and uninterrupted service.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.47 SPRINKLING METERS SERVICE.
   (A)   Sprinkling meter service shall cover the right to use water through a
fixed irrigation system equipped with regulating nozzles for the sprinkling of
lawns and gardens. No connection will be allowed with any other source of water
or chemical addition device whereby the Utility supply may be contaminated. A
double check valve must be installed on all irrigation systems.
   (B)   Sprinkling use may at any time be restricted or entirely prohibited,
for any cause deemed sufficient therefore in the discretion of the Utility,
upon notice to the consumer of such restriction or prohibition.
   (C)   Sprinkling meters will be furnished to the consumer by the Utility,
subject to charges set for new connections in the current rates and charges
ordinance. Availability fees are not charged for sprinkling services.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.48 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Consumers requesting an adjustment on the sewer portion of their bill
due to the filling of a pool may be granted so with proper notification and
approval from the Water & Wastewater Utility Billing Office. Consumers are to
notify the Billing Office at the time they start and finish filling their
pools.
   (B)   Fire hydrants may be used if one is accessible and on an 8-inch or
larger main. The Utility's hydrant meter must be used to register the quantity
of water used. Billing will be based on charges for a 3-inch meter plus rental
fees of the hydrant meter and hoses needed to transport the water. This has to
be scheduled with the Water Plant. All fees are according to the current
approved rates.
   (C)   Water can be purchased from the Water Utility or from any other
potable water supply and hauled to the location by a private supplier.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
§ 51.49 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Standard "Mueller" 5-1/4-inch three-way hydrants are to have a 6-inch
or larger connection to mains with a minimum of 6-inch valve openings. Fire
hydrants shall be provided at each street intersection and at intermediate
points between intersections and at the ends of cul-de-sacs. Generally,
hydrants shall be placed at least every 400 feet. Hydrant placement must be
approved by the Water Utility and the Fire Department.
   (B)   All public fire hydrants are to be used for fire protection or proper
operation of the distribution system exclusively. Permits for use of water from
hydrants for any purpose other than for fire protection will not be granted by
the Utility except in cases where such use is deemed by the Utility to be
urgent and other means of obtaining water are not available. However, these
permits can be revoked at the pleasure of the Utility in every instance and at
any time.
   (C)   No person or persons other than members of the Fire Department, or
authorized employees of the city for the uses and purposes of the city
departments, and those authorized by the Utility shall open any hydrant to draw
water from the same, or in any manner interface with any such hydrants. The
penalty for noncompliance of this section is listed in §
51.99.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.50 PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Fees for private fire protection will be billed according to the
current approved rates. These lines are to be used only for fire protection and
shall be with the proper check valve(s). Any use other than fire protection
will be billed according to the current approved rates and may lead to
disconnection of this service plus penalty charge. Any outstanding past due
charges for private fire protection maybe transferred to another service.
   (B)   The fire protection line shall be privately owned and maintained by
the consumer from the point of the tap on the Utility water main. In rare cases
and with the permission of the Utility, a domestic service will be the
responsibility of the consumer approved by the Utility.
   (C)   The above divisions are not to be construed as prohibiting a
reasonable use of water for drainage of a system to prevent freezing, pump
tests or fire drills, with the consent of the Utility in every instance, prior
to the execution of such activity. The consumer must notify the Utility naming
the day and hour when the same is intended to be made. If desired, the Utility
may have an inspector present during the activity.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
§ 51.51 DISINFECTION.
   (A)   Because of the rules of the 1986 Safe Drinking Water Act, administered
by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management, strict water safety
standards must be adhered to. These rules apply to and are the responsibility
of both the Utility and the consumer.
   (B)   All mains, valves, hydrants, etc. shall be thoroughly flushed and
disinfected using a chlorine gas mixture or a hypochlorite (HTH) and water
mixture applied in amounts to produce a dosage of 50mg/l. All portions of the
mains will have a residual of not less than 25mg/l free chlorine after a 24
hour contact time. Following disinfection, the treated water will be flushed
from the pipes at its extremities, and two samples, 24 hours apart, will be
taken. This shall be done at the contractor's expense. The disinfection process
will be repeated, if necessary, until bacteriological quality of water is in
accordance with Indiana Department of Environmental Management regulations. A
copy of the bacteriological test results must be given to the Utility.
   (C)   Whenever service is shut off due to main breaks, service line repairs
or whatever reason, the lines have to be fully flushed and tested for chlorine
residual before returning to service. There should be well-defined chlorine
residual in the pipe and acceptable to the standards of the Utility subject to
their inspection. The Utility has the right to request a bacteriological test
made on such projects.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
 Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.52 AMENDMENTS TO RATES AND RULES.
   Each and every addition or modification, alteration or amendment to any of
the rates or rules of the Utility, shall become binding upon, and shall form a
part of the contract with each and every consumer, upon expiration of 30 days'
notice thereof by publishing same at least twice in a weekly newspaper, unless
and except any such addition or modification, alteration or amendment is by
these rules provided to be and become otherwise effective and binding on every
such consumer, or any one or more thereof.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
§ 51.53 WATER WORKS DOES NOT GUARANTEE SERVICE.
   Nothing in these rules, nor any contract, nor representation, verbal, or
written, of the Utility or any of its employees, shall be taken or construed in
any manner to be or constitute a guarantee to furnish a proper quantity of
water through any service connection, whether for domestic, commercial,
industrial or manufacturing uses, or for private or public fire protection
purposes, nor shall any such be construed in any way an undertaking on the part
of the Utility to guarantee anything relative to any services furnished or
provided by the Utility. The Utility will, at all times, and in every instance,
make every effort to maintain the efficiency of its service under all
conditions, but it will, under no circumstances or conditions, be responsible
in any manner for failure in its supply during a fire or at any other time.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $l,000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
51.44 through
51.53 may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or
continues. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the
operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter or in other city
ordinances. The assessment of the fines under this section shall be assessed by
the Water Superintendent and enforced, if necessary, by a civil action
initiated by the city, which shall require the violator to pay all court costs
and legal expenses, including attorney fees incurred by the city in collecting
said fines and assessments.
      (2)   The city shall also recover costs incurred by the city in enforcing
the terms of §§
51.44 through
51.52 and to also bring a civil action for the mandatory and injunctive relief
for the enforcement of, and to secure compliance with, any provisions of these
sections, or to bring an action to recover any penalties and costs incurred by
the city in enforcing the terms of these sections. In addition to the recovery
of the actual costs and expenses incurred by the city, the city shall also be
entitled to recover all costs, fines and expenses incurred in enforcing §§
51.44 through
51.52 or bringing any action in the courts, including, but not limited to, all
attorney fees and costs incurred by the city.
   (C)   The city, acting through the Water Superintendent, may, in the name of
the city, bring certain actions in the circuit or superior court of the county
for the recovery of all costs incurred by the city in enforcing the terms of §§
51.44 through
51.52, and to also bring action for the mandatory and injunctive relief for the
enforcement of, and to secure compliance with, any provisions of this section,
or bring an action to recover any penalties and costs incurred by the city in
enforcing the terms of §§
51.44 through
51.53.
   (D)   In addition to the recovery of the actual costs and expenses incurred
by the city, the city shall also be entitled to recover all costs, fines and
expenses incurred in enforcing this section or bringing any action in the
courts, including, but not limited to, all attorney fees and costs incurred by
the city in bringing said action.
(Am. Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-15-07)
 CHAPTER 52: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Information
   
52.001   Authority and title
   
52.002   Applicability and exemptions
   
52.003   Findings
   
52.004   Purpose
   
52.005   Abbreviations and definitions
   
52.006   Responsibility for administration
   
52.007   Interpretation
   
52.008   Disclaimer of liability
Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
52.020   Applicability and exemptions
   
52.021   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
52.022   Exempted discharges and connections
   
52.023   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
52.024   Private property maintenance duties
   
52.025   Spill reporting
   
52.026   Inspections and monitoring
Stormwater Quantity Management
   
52.040   Applicability and exemptions
   
52.041   Policy on stormwater quantity management
   
52.042   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
52.043   Drainage easement requirements
   
52.044   Placement of utilities
   
52.045   Structures near county regulated drains
   
52.046   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites
   
52.060   Applicability and exemptions
   
52.061   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
52.062   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
52.063   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Quality Management for Post-Construction
   
52.075   Applicability and exemptions
   
52.076   Policy on stormwater quality management
   
52.077   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
52.078   Easement requirements
   
52.079   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Permit Requirements and Procedures
   
52.090   Conceptual drainage plan review
   
52.091   Permit procedures
   
52.092   Information requirements
   
52.093   Review of individual lots
   
52.094   Changes to plans
   
52.095   Fee structure
   
52.096   Required assurances
   
52.097   Terms and conditions of permits
   
52.098   Certification of as-built plans
   
52.099   Post-project maintenance bond and verifications
Compliance and Enforcement
   
52.110   Compliance with this chapter
   
52.111   Enforcement of this chapter
   
52.112   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
52.113   Appeals
GENERAL INFORMATION
§ 52.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in accordance with statutory authority granted
to City of Greensburg under "Home Rule and further is required by Phase II of
the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Stormwater program (40 CFR
Parts 9, 122, 123, and 124; December 8, 1999) authorized by the 1987 amendments
to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management's
(IDEM) Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) General Permit (MS4 GP), and
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management's Construction Stormwater
General Permit (CSGP). Based on this authority and these requirements this
chapter regulates:
      (1)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the storm drain
system.
      (2)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development of lands
located within the corporate boundaries of the City of Greensburg.
      (3)   Drainage control systems installed during new construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (4)   Stormwater, including stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and
surface runoff and drainage, associated with construction activity.
      (5)   Stormwater discharges from construction support activities directly
related to construction sites subject to this chapter.
      (6)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during new
construction and grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (7)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems.
      (8)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
      (9)   The design, construction, and maintenance of new dams.
      (10)   The development downstream of existing dams.
      (11)   Development within floodplains, floodways, fluvial erosion hazard
corridors, and bluff zones.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Greensburg
Stormwater Management Ordinance. Once adopted, this chapter will supersede any
conflicting ordinances previously adopted by the City of Greensburg.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.002 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall regulate all development and redevelopment
occurring within the City of Greensburg. No building permit shall be issued and
no land disturbance started for any construction in a development, as defined
in §
52.005, until the plans required by this chapter for such construction have
been accepted in writing by the City of Greensburg. With the exception of the
requirements of §§
52.020 through
52.026 and §
52.093, single-family dwelling houses and duplexes in accepted subdivisions,
and land-disturbing activities affecting less than 10,000 square feet of area
shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Also exempt from this
chapter shall be agricultural land-disturbing activities.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of this chapter and its companion
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, compliance with all applicable
ordinances of City of Greensburg as well as with applicable federal, State of
Indiana, and other local statues and regulations shall also be required. Unless
otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in this chapter shall be
the most recent edition available. City of Greensburg capital improvement
projects shall also be required to obtain a permit and required to meet all
applicable technical requirements of this chapter and the City of Greensburg
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual but are exempt from any application and
review fees.
   (C)   Any construction project which has had its final drainage plan
accepted by the City of Greensburg within a two-year period prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall be exempt from all requirements of this
chapter that are in excess of the requirements of ordinances in effect at the
time of acceptance. Such an exemption is not applicable to the requirements
detailed in §§
52.020 through
52.026.
   (D)   The City of Greensburg (through the City Engineer and/or the Director
of Public Projects) has the authority to modify, grant exemptions, and/or waive
any and all the requirements of this chapter and its associated technical
standards document. A pre-submittal meeting with the City of Greensburg may be
requested by the applicant to discuss the applicability of various provisions
of the ordinance and its associated technical standards document with regards
to unique or unusual circumstances relating to a project. However, any initial
determination of such applicability shall not be binding on future
determinations of the City of Greensburg that may be based on the review of
more detailed information and plans.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.003 FINDINGS.
   The City of Greensburg finds that:
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within the City
of Greensburg, or its planning jurisdiction boundary are at times subjected to
flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, increased flooding,
increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
   (D)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs;
   (E)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development projects
within the City of Greensburg will, absent reasonable regulation and control,
adversely affect the City of Greensburg's water bodies and water resources;
   (F)   Pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within the City of
Greensburg will, absent reasonable regulation, monitoring, and enforcement,
adversely affect the City of Greensburg's water bodies and water resources;
   (G)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution, and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by the regulation
of stormwater management;
   (H)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained and
referenced in this chapter and implementing the same will address many of the
deleterious effects of stormwater runoff and illicit discharges;
   (I)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety, and welfare, for the conservation of natural resources, and for
compliance with State and Federal regulations.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.004 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the City of Greensburg through the
regulation of stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage
system and to protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources within the City of Greensburg. This chapter establishes methods
for managing the quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the storm
drain system. The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by excessive
stormwater runoff.
   (B)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from construction site runoff.
   (C)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from runoff from new development and re-development.
   (D)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the storm drain system.
   (E)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, monitoring,
and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.005 ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Abbreviations.
      “BMP.” Best management practice.
      “COE.” United States Army Corps of Engineers.
      “CWA.” Clean Water Act.
      “EPA.” Environmental Protection Agency.
      “IDEM.” Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      “MS4.” Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System NPDES.
      “NPDES.” National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      “POTW.” Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
      “SWCD.” Soil and Water Conservation District.
      “SWPPP.” Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.
   (B)   Definitions.
      “BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.” Design, construction, and maintenance
practices and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
      “CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY).” The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
      “CHANNEL.” A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
link between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.
      “COMPLIANCE.” The act of correcting a violation or violations within the
time frame specified by the City of Greensburg.
      “CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.” Land disturbing activities, and land disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
      “CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS.” A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
      “CONSTRUCTION SUPPORT ACTIVITIES.” Include but are not limited to the
following: concrete or asphalt batch plants, equipment staging yards, material
storage areas, excavated material disposal areas borrow areas such activities
must not support multiple, unrelated projects, be a commercial/industrial
operation, or continue to operate beyond the completion of the construction
activity for the project it supports.
Contiguous. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
      “CONTOUR.” An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting
points of the same elevation.
      “CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR.” An individual or company hired by the
project site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot
operator to perform services on the project site.
      “CONVEYANCE.” Any structural method for transferring stormwater between
at least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
      “DETENTION.” Managing stormwater runoff by temporary holding and
controlled release.
      “DETENTION BASIN.” A facility constructed or modified to restrict the
flow of stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the
excess waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
      “DEVELOPER.” Any person financially responsible for construction
activity, or an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or
lease, any lots in a subdivision.
      “DEVELOPMENT.”
         (a)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
            1.   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or
any addition to a building;
            2.   Construction of flood control structures such as levees,
dikes, dams or channel improvements;
            3.   Construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
            4.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more
than 180 days;
            5.   Installing utilities, erection of walls, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
            6.   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
            7.   Storage of materials; or
            8.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
         (b)   “DEVELOPMENT” does not include activities such as the
maintenance of existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing,
resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices
that do not involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of
permanent buildings.
      “DISCHARGE.” In the context of water quantity provisions, usually the
rate of water flow, i.e., a volume of fluid passing a point per unit time
commonly expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters per second, gallons
per minute, or millions of gallons per day. In the context of water quality
provisions, the discharge means any addition of liquids or solids to a water
body or a flow conveyance facility.
      “DISPOSAL.” The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so
that the solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may
enter the environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any
waters, including ground waters.
      “DITCH.” A man-made, open watercourse in or into which excess surface
water or groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or floodwaters flow
either continuously or intermittently.
      “DRAIN.” A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
      “DRAINAGE.” The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land
by means of ditches or subsurface drains. Also see “NATURAL DRAINAGE.”
      “DRAINAGE AREA.” The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may
be of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface runoff area is considered as the drainage area.
      “DURATION.” The time period of a rainfall event.
      “ENVIRONMENT.” The sum total of all the external conditions that may act
upon a living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
      “EROSION.” The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice,
gravity, or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe
different types of water erosion:
         “ACCELERATED EROSION.” Erosion much more rapid than normal or geologic
erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of man.
         “CHANNEL EROSION.” An erosion process whereby the volume and velocity
of flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
         “GULLY EROSION.” An erosion process whereby runoff water accumulates
in narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the soil to
considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 to 100 feet.
         “RILL EROSION.” An erosion process in which numerous small channels
only several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently disturbed and
exposed soils (see “RILL”).
         “SPLASH EROSION.” The spattering of small soil particles caused by the
impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may or
may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
         “SHEET EROSION.” The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of soil
from the land surface by runoff water.
      “EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.” A practice, or a combination of
practices, to minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion
at the source and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being
discharged from or within a project site.
      “FILTER STRIP.” Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually, 20 to 75
feet wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or
impervious surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants for the protection of
watercourses, reservoirs, or adjacent properties.
      “FLOOD (OR FLOOD WATERS).” A general and temporary condition of partial
or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the
unusual and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any
source.
      “FLOODPLAIN.” The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel
which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year
flood. Any normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by
water from any natural source. The floodplain includes both the floodway and
the floodway fringe districts.
      “FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
      “FLOODWAY FRINGE.” That portion of the flood plain lying outside the
floodway, which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
      “FLUVIAL EROSION HAZARD (FEH) CORRIDOR.” Fluvial erosion hazard corridors
represent the areas along the streams (including the channel and immediate
overbanks areas) that are believed to be subject to stream movement or
streambank erosion. These corridors have been delineated for most actively
migrating and relatively stationary streams in Indiana through an Indiana
Silver Jackets initiative.   
      “FOOTING DRAIN.” A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement
or any foundation wall to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater
elevation.
      “GASOLINE OUTLET.” An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
primary function is the resale of fuels The term applies to facilities that
create 5,000 or more square feet of impervious surface, or generate an average
daily traffic count of 100 vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
      “GRADE.” (1) The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, etc.,
or natural ground surface usually expressed m terms of the percentage the
vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance. (2) The
finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment, or bottom of
excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the support of
construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit. (3) To finish the
surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment, or bottom of excavation, or
other land area to a smooth, even condition.
      “GRADING.” The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope
or elevation.
      “GROUNDWATER.” Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial.
The term does not include manmade underground storage or conveyance structures.
      “HABITAT.” The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal
are supplied.
      “HOT SPOT DEVELOPMENT.” Projects involving land uses considered to be
high pollutant producers such as vehicle service and maintenance facilities,
vehicle salvage yards and recycling facilities, vehicle and equipment cleaning
facilities, fleet storage areas for buses, trucks, etc., industrial/commercial
or any hazardous waste storage areas or areas that generate such wastes,
industrial sites, restaurants and convenience stores, any activity involving
chemical mixing or loading/unloading, outdoor liquid container storage, public
works storage areas, commercial container nurseries, and some high traffic
retail uses characterized by frequent vehicle turnover.
      “ILLICIT DISCHARGE.” Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or
tree limbs. Illicit discharges include polluted flows from direct and indirect
connections to the MS4 conveyance, illegal dumping, and contaminated runoff.
      “IMPAIRED WATERS.” Waters that do not or are not expected to meet
applicable water quality standards, as included on IDEM's CWA Section 303(d)
List of Impaired Waters.
      “IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.” Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which
prevent the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
      “INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT.” A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
      “INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR.” A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual lot.
      “INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER.” A person who has financial control of
construction activities for an individual lot.
      “INFILTRATION.” Passage or movement of water into the soil. Infiltration
practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
runoff through the soil to groundwater. Examples include infiltration basins or
trenches, dry wells, and porous pavement.
      “LAND SURVEYOR.” A person licensed under the laws of the State of Indiana
to practice land surveying.
      “LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE.” A plan, undertaken by a
single project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert,
to offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offer for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
      “MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWERS.” An MS4 meets all the following
criteria: (1) is a conveyance or system of conveyance owned by the state,
county, city, town, or other public entity; (2) discharges to waters of the
U.S.; (3) is designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater; (4) is
not a combined sewer; and, (5) is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works
(POTW).
      “NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM.” A permit developed by
the U.S. EPA through the Clean Water Act. In Indiana, the permitting process
has been delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal stormwater
quality.
      “NATURAL DRAINAGE.” The flow patterns of stormwater runoff over the land
in its pre-development state.
      “NUTRIENT(S).” (1) A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction
of organisms. (2) In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates)
that promote growth of algae and bacteria.
      “OFFENSE.” Both a violation and a failure of compliance on a particular
project. If there are multiple violations or multiple failures of compliance on
the same project, each shall be considered a separate offense.
      “OPEN DRAIN.” A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that
conveys drainage water.
      “OUTFALL.” The point, location, or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
      “OUTLET.” The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake,
tidewater, or artificial drain.
      “PERCOLATION.” The movement of water through soil.
      “PERVIOUS.” Allowing movement of water.
      “POINT SOURCE.” Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance
including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, or container from which pollutants are or maybe discharged
(P.L. 92-500, Section 502[14]).
      “POROUS PAVEMENT.” A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality
and reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff via the use of manmade, pervious
pavement which allows runoff to percolate through the pavement and into
underlying soils.
      “PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.” A person licensed under the laws of the State of
Indiana to practice professional engineering.
      “PROJECT SITE.” The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
      “PROJECT SITE OWNER.” The person required to submit a stormwater permit
application and required to comply with the terms of this chapter, including a
developer or a person who has financial and operational control of construction
activities, and project plans and specifications, including the ability to make
modifications to those plans and specifications.
      “RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL, OR RECEIVING WATER.” The body of
water into which runoff or effluent is discharged. The term does not include
private drams, unnamed conveyances, retention and detention basins, or
constructed wetlands used as treatment.
      “RECHARGE.” Replenishment of groundwater reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
      “REDEVELOPMENT.” Development occurring on a previously developed site.
      “REFUELING AREA.” An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose
primary function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
      “REGIONAL POND.” A detention/retention basin sized to detain/retain the
runoff from the entire watershed on-site and off-site, tributary to the pond's
outlet.
      “REGULATORY FLOOD.” The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-
year flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The “REGULATORY FLOOD” is also known as the “BASE
FLOOD.”
      “RELEASE RATE.” The amount of stormwater release from a stormwater
control facility per unit of time.
      “RESERVOIR.” A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space
used for storage, regulation or control of water. May be either permanent or
temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
      “RETENTION.” The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
      “RETENTION BASIN.” A type of storage practice, that has no positive
outlet, used to retain stormwater runoff for an indefinite amount of time.
Runoff from this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous
bottom or by evaporation.
      “RIPARIAN HABITAT.” A land area adjacent to a waterbody that supports
animal and plant life associated with that waterbody.
      “RUNOFF.” That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area
on the land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.
      “SEDIMENT.” Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
      “SEDIMENTATION.” The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
      “SITE.” The entire area included in the legal description of the land on
which land disturbing activity is to be performed.
      “SLOPE.” Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured
as a numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is
commonly the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance
(rise)--e.g., 2:1. However, the preferred method for designation of slopes is
to clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length (L)
and Width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that according to
international standards (Metric), the slopes are presented as the vertical or
width component shown on the numerator-e.g., 1V:2H. Slope expressions in this
chapter follow the common presentation of slopes--e.g., 2:1 with the metric
presentation shown in parentheses--e.g., (1V:2H). Slopes given in percent are
always expressed as (100*V/H)--e.g., 2:1 (2V:2H) slope is a 50% slope.
      “SOIL.” The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
      “SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT.” A public organization created
under state law as a special-purpose district to develop and carry out a
program of soil, water, and related resource conservation use and development
within its boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a local governing
body established under IC 14-32.
      “SOLID WASTE.” Any garbage, refuse, debris, or other discarded material.
      “SPILL.” The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping,
leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum, hazardous
substances, extremely hazardous substances, or objectionable substances. The
term does not include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does
not migrate off the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
      “STORM SEWER.” A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a storm drain.
      “STORMWATER.” Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
      “STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM.” All means, natural or man-made, used for
conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
      “STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.” A collection of structural and non-
structural practices and infrastructure designed to manage stormwater on a
site. This system may include but is not limited to erosion control measures,
storm drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities, and stormwater
quality BMPs.
      “STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.” A plan developed to minimize the
impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction activities.
      “STORMWATER RUNOFF.” The water derived from rains falling within a
tributary basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in
channels or conduits.
      “STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN.” A comprehensive written document
that addresses stormwater runoff quality.
      “STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE.” A practice, or a combination of practices,
to control or minimize pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
      “SUBDIVISION, MAJOR.” Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided
into four or more lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements,
for the purpose of sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development
or sale.
      “SUBDIVISION, MINOR.” Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided
into less than four lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements,
for the purpose of sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development
or sale.
      “SUBSURFACE DRAIN.” A pervious backfield trench, usually containing stone
and perforated pipe, for intercepting groundwater or seepage.
      “SURFACE RUNOFF.” Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground, etc., and is not absorbed or retained by that surface but
collects and runs off.
      “SWALE.” An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least
seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing
water. Swales conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide
some groundwater recharge.
      “TOPOGRAPHY.” The representation of a portion of the earth's surface
showing natural and man-made features of a given locality such as rivers,
streams, ditches, lakes, roads, buildings and most importantly, variations in
ground elevations for the terrain of the area.
      “TRAINED INDIVIDUAL.” An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of stormwater quality, including erosion and sediment control as may
be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification (such as
CESSWI and/or CPESC certification), or other documented and applicable
experience or coursework as deemed sufficient by the City of Greensburg that
enable the individual to make judgments regarding stormwater control or
treatment and monitoring.
      “URBANIZATION.” The development, change or improvement of any parcel of
land consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational or public utility purposes.
      “VIOLATION.” Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this
chapter or the technical standards, the requirements of an approved stormwater
management design plan or permit, and/or the requirements of a recorded
stormwater maintenance agreement may be subject to the enforcement actions
outlined in §§
52.110  through
52.113 . Any such action or inaction is deemed to be a public nuisance and may
be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief in addition to, and separate
from, the imposition of any of the enforcement actions described in §§
52.110  through
52.113 .
      “WATER QUALITY.” A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
      “WATER RESOURCES.” The supply of groundwater and surface water in a given
area.
      “WATERBODY.” Any accumulation of water, surface, or underground, natural
or artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water
pollution control facilities.
      “WATERCOURSE.” Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or man-
made drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      “WATERSHED.” The region drained by or contributing water to a specific
point that could be along a stream, lake or other stormwater facility.
Watersheds are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic
modeling.
      “WETLANDS.” Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.006 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The City of Greensburg City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects
shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any
powers granted or d ties imposed upon the authorized enforcement agency may be
delegated in writing by the City of Greensburg City Engineer and/or the
Director of Public Projects to qualified persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the City of Greensburg.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.007 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in §
52.005, shall be construed according to the respective definitions given in
that section. Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in
this chapter, but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in
technical usage shall be construed according to such meanings.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.008 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records,
engineering, and scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or
stormwater runoff amounts may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater
damage. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the City of
Greensburg or any officer, representative, or employee thereof, for any damage
that may result from reliance on this chapter or on any administrative decision
lawfully made there under.
   (B)   The words "approve" and "accept", and their common derivations as used
in this chapter in relation to plans, reports, calculations, and permits shall
mean that City of Greensburg has reviewed the material produced and submitted
by the applicant or his/her agents for general compliance with this chapter and
the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and that such
compliance would qualify the applicant to receive a stormwater management
approval or permit. Such an "approval" or "acceptance" is based on the
assumption that the project engineer has followed all appropriate engineering
methods in the design. Any stormwater quantity (drainage) or water quality
problems associated with the project caused by poor construction by the
contractor and/or poor engineering design or judgment, either on-site or off-
site, are the responsibility of the developer and the project engineer.
   (C)   Consideration, design, construction, and maintenance of safety
measures for proposed or existing stormwater facilities shall be the
responsibility of the developer, applicant, and/or the property owner. City of
Greensburg and its officials and representatives shall not be responsible for
maintenance nor liability for any accidents.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.020 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all discharges, including illegal dumping,
entering the storm drain system under the control of the City of Greensburg,
regardless of whether the discharge originates from developed or undeveloped
lands, and regardless of whether the discharge is generated from an active
construction site or a stabilized site. These discharges include flows from
direct connections to the storm drain system, illegal dumping, and contaminated
runoff.
   (B)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and mining
activities is exempted from the requirements of this section unless determined
to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in excess of
standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver
(unless the waiver is solely based on point source considerations, still
allowing non-point source discharge of a pollutant), or waste discharge order
issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal
Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain system, is also exempted
from this section.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.021 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to a MS4 conveyance, watercourse, or
waterbody, directly or indirectly, any substance other than stormwater or an
exempted discharge, including but not limited to grass clippings and other
organic debris. Any person discharging stormwater shall effectively minimize
pollutants from also being discharged with the stormwater, through the use of
best management practices (BMPs).
   (B)   Concrete washout material shall be properly contained within an
appropriate practice and any waste material properly disposed of.
   (C)   The City of Greensburg is authorized to require dischargers to
implement pollution prevention measures, utilizing BMPs necessary to prevent or
reduce the discharge of pollutants into the City of Greensburg's stormwater
drainage system.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.022 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements in this chapter, stormwater comingled
with other discharges either regulated by other NPDES permits or determined by
the City of Greensburg to not be a significant source of pollutants, including
the following, are exempt from the requirements of this section:
   (A)   Water line and hydrant flushing for maintenance;
   (B)   Irrigation water;
   (C)   Footing, foundation, and crawl Space drains (uncontaminated);
   (D)   Excess storm sewer cleaning water not collected by a vacuum truck
(uncontaminated);
   (E)   Fire suppression activities;
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
   (G)   Springs;
   (H)   Residential car washing;
   (I)   Non-commercial car washing by community organizations;
   (J)   External building washdown, without detergents;
   (K)   Dechlorinated/debrominated residential swimming pool discharges
   (L)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration (as defined at 40 CFR 35.2005
(20));
   (M)   Pavement wash waters provided spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spill material has been removed) and
where detergents are not used; and
   (N)   Uncontaminated condensate from air conditioning units, coolers, and
other compressors, and from outside storage of refrigerated gases or liquids.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.023 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
watercourse, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly
prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material, including
sewage treatment plant stockpiles, on active construction sites shall include
adequate protection and/or containment so as to prevent any such materials from
entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance or watercourse.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.024 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse located
within their property boundaries, free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation,
and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard
the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee
shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.025 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a waterbody any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the City of Greensburg concerning the discharge. A written report
concerning the discharge shall be filed with the City of Greensburg and IDEM,
by the dischargers, within five days. The written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence;
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter.
   (B)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section. This requirement does not relieve discharger
from notifying other entities as required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.026 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system. The City of Greensburg has the authority to
periodically inspect the portion of the storm drainage system under the City of
Greensburg's control, in an effort to detect and eliminate illicit connections
and discharges into the system. This inspection will include a screening of
discharges from outfalls connected to the system in order to determine if
prohibited flows are being conveyed into the storm drainage system. It could
also include spot testing of waters contained in the storm drainage system
itself to detect the introduction of pollutants into the system by means other
than a defined outfall, such as dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Potential polluters. If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the City of
Greensburg may inspect and/or obtain stormwater samples from stormwater runoff
facilities of the subject discharger, to determine compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. Upon request, the discharger shall allow the City
of Greensburg's properly identified representative to enter upon the premises
of the discharger at all hours necessary for the purposes of such inspection or
sampling. The City of Greensburg or its properly identified representative may
place on the discharger's property the equipment or devices used for such
sampling or inspection. Identified illicit connections or discharges shall be
subject to enforcement action as described in §§
52.110 through
52.113.
   (C)   New development and re-development. Following the final completion of
construction and the receipt of as-built drawings by the City of Greensburg,
the City of Greensburg has the authority to inspect new development and re-
development sites to verify that all on-site stormwater conveyances and
connections to the storm drainage system are in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT
§ 52.040 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The storage and controlled release of excess stormwater runoff shall be
required for all new business, institutional developments, commercial and
industrial developments, residential subdivisions, planned development, rural
estate subdivisions, and any redevelopment or other new construction located
within the City of Greensburg. The City of Greensburg, after thorough
investigation and evaluation, may waive the requirement of controlled runoff
for minor subdivisions. Additional potential exemptions regarding the detention
requirements are provided under §
52.041.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.041 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that most streams and drainage channels serving the
City of Greensburg do not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey
stormwater runoff resulting from continued urbanization. Accordingly, the
storage and controlled release of excess stormwater runoff as well as
compensation for loss of floodplain storage shall be required for all
developments and redevelopments (as defined in §
52.005) located within the City of Greensburg. Release rate requirements,
downstream restriction considerations, acceptable outlet, adjoining property
impact considerations, policy on dams and levees, policy on fluvial erosion
hazard corridors, and compensatory floodplain storage rates are detailed in the
City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards.
   (B)   Due to unknowns regarding the future development patterns and the
associated proposed stormwater quantity management systems within a watershed,
it is the policy of the City of Greensburg to discourage direct release of
runoff from a new development or redevelopment without providing detention.
However, in rare circumstances, where a comprehensive watershed-wide hydrologic
study or watershed plan of a major stream (not a “beat the peak” analysis)
adopted by the City of Greensburg substantiates the benefits of (or allows for)
direct release for a proposed development located adjacent to a major stream,
the detention requirements set in this chapter may be waived. Other special
circumstances when such a waiver may be considered by the City of Greensburg
include situations where the design of a regional pond has already taken into
account the provision of direct release in certain areas in the watershed.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.042 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater facilities shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications outlined in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual. The methods and procedures in the Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual are consistent with the policy stated above.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.043 DRAINAGE EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All stormwater systems, including detention or retention basins,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances, located outside of the right-
of-way shall be placed within a drainage easement. There shall be no trees or
shrubs planted, nor any structures or fences erected in any drainage easement,
unless otherwise accepted by the City of Greensburg. Additional easement
requirements along stormwater conveyance systems are contained in the City of
Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. All drainage improvements
performed relative to the conveyance of stormwater runoff and the perpetual
maintenance thereof, within the latter easements, shall be the responsibility
of the owner or homeowner association.
   (B)   Any outlet to, crossing, and/or encroachment of a county regulated
drainage easement requires application and acceptance from the County Drainage
Board in accordance with the Indiana Drainage Code.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.044 PLACEMENT OF UTILITIES.
   No utility company may disturb existing storm drainage facilities without
the consent of the City of Greensburg staff, whose decision may be appealed to
the common council of the City of Greensburg. All existing drainage facilities
shall have senior rights and damage to said facilities shall result in
penalties as prescribed in §§
52.110 through
52.113.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.045 STRUCTURES NEAR COUNTY REGULATED DRAINS.
   For regulated drains not located in platted subdivisions, unless otherwise
accepted by the Decatur County Drainage Board, no permanent structure
(including fences) shall be erected within 75 feet measured at right angles
from a) the existing top edge of each bank of a regulated open drain, as
determined by the Decatur County Drainage Board; or b) the center line of a
piped Regulated Drain. The Indiana Drainage Code may be consulted for further
details.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.046 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the City of
Greensburg and the commencement of construction activities, the City of
Greensburg has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to
ensure full compliance with the provisions of this section, the Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, design and construction standards, and the terms
and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   The owner/construction contractor of the site shall inform the City of
Greensburg after installation of any underground pipes and fittings prior to
backfilling to provide a chance to the City to visually inspect the
installation prior to infrastructure being buried.
   (C)   The City of Greensburg also has the authority to perform long-term,
post-construction inspection of all public or privately owned stormwater
quantity facilities. The inspection will cover physical conditions, available
storage capacity, and the operational condition of key facility elements.
Stormwater quantity facilities shall be maintained in good condition, in
accordance with the designed and approved performance specifications for the
facilities, in addition to any prescribed operation and maintenance procedures.
Nether the facilities nor the operation and maintenance procedures shall be
subsequently altered, revised or replaced except as approved by the City of
Greensburg. If deficiencies are found during the inspection, the owner of the
facility will be notified by the City of Greensburg and will be required to
take all necessary measures to correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails to
correct the deficiencies within the allowed time period, as specified in the
notification letter, the City of Greensburg will undertake the work and collect
from the owner using lien rights if necessary.
   (D)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds, unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body,
and determined before the final stormwater permit is approved.
   (E)   Stormwater conveyance facilities may be donated to the City of
Greensburg or other unit of government designated by the City of Greensburg,
for ownership and permanent maintenance providing the City of Greensburg or
other governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 52.060 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The City of Greensburg will require a stormwater pollution prevention
plan (SWPPP), which includes erosion and sediment control measures and
materials handling procedures, to be submitted as part of a project's
construction plans and specifications. Any project located within the corporate
boundaries of the City of Greensburg that includes clearing, grading,
excavation or other land disturbing activities resulting in the disturbance of
10,000 square feet or more of total land area is subject to the requirements of
this section. This includes both new development and re-development. This
section also applies to disturbances of land that are part of a larger common
plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb
10,000 square feet or more of total land area. Section
52.062 provides guidelines for calculating land disturbance. Projects meeting
the coverage requirements of IDEM's CSGP shall also be in compliance with the
requirements contained in that permit.
   (B)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion and sediment control
measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 IAC 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under IC 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 IAC 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (C)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner shall complete their own notice of
intent letter, apply for a stormwater permit from the City of Greensburg, and
ensure that a sufficient construction and stormwater pollution prevention plan
is completed and submitted in accordance with §§
52.090 through
52.099, regardless of whether the individual lot is part of a larger permitted
project site. For an individual lot where land disturbance is 10,000 square
feet or more but less than one acre, an individual lot plot plan permit
application is required prior to receiving a building permit. Details of the
permitting process are contained in §§
52.090 through
52.099.
   (D)   An individual lot located within a larger permitted project site, is
considered part of the larger permitted project site, and the individual lot
operator shall comply with the terms and conditions of the stormwater permit
approved for the larger project site. The stormwater permit application for the
larger project site shall include detailed erosion and sediment control
measures for individual lots. In addition, the builders of these individual
lots are required to submit an individual lot plot plan permit application
along with a SWPPP for that individual lot prior to receiving a building
permit. Details of the permitting process for individual lots and parcels are
contained in §
52.093 and additional requirements for individual lots may be found in the City
of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (E)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the City of Greensburg in accordance with §§
52.090 through
52.099. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
compliance with this chapter during the construction activity and
implementation of the construction plan, and to notify the City of Greensburg
upon completion of the project and stabilization of the site, requesting a
termination inspection to be performed by the City of Greensburg. However, all
persons engaging in construction and land disturbing activities on a permitted
project site meeting the applicability requirements shall comply with the
requirements of this section and this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.061 POLICY ON STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is
dependent on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original
position (erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a
waterbody (sediment control), and proper on-site materials handling.
   (B)   For land disturbance of one acre or more, the developer shall submit
to the City of Greensburg, a SWPPP with detailed erosion and sediment control
plans as well as a narrative describing materials handling and storage, and
construction sequencing. The SWPPP and the project management log shall be
retained for at least three years from the date the project permit is
terminated. For land disturbances totaling 10,000 square feet or more but less
than one acre, appropriate erosion and sediment control measures that are
consistent with the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual
shall be designed and shown on the plans.
   (C)   The required IDEM general and implementation requirements that apply
to all land-disturbing activities are contained in the City of Greensburg
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.062 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this section to a project, the following
guidelines should be used:
      (1)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water, offsite stockpiles, and other
utilities) to a land disturbing project site, shall be considered as a part of
the total land disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity
is under the control of the project site owner.
      (2)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this
section, the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total
area of land disturbance for improvements, such as, roads, utilities, or common
areas, and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined
by the following:
         (a)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
one-half acre or more, one-half acre of land disturbance shall be used as the
expected lot disturbance.
         (b)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
less than one-half acre in size, the total lot shall be calculated as being
disturbed.
         (c)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of project
sites, such as industrial and commercial projects project sites, a minimum of
one acre of land disturbance shall be used as the expected lot disturbance,
unless the lots are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot
shall be calculated as being disturbed.
      (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement
of all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall
meet the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual, the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual, and the product guidance/specifications of the manufacturer.
The methods and procedures included in these two references are in keeping with
the above stated policy and meet the requirements of the IDEM's CSGP. A Copy of
the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual may be obtained online through IDEM.
   (C)   The design requirements that would apply to all land-disturbing
activities and shall be considered in the selection, design, and implementation
of all stormwater quality and management measures contained in the SWPPP are
contained in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.063 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Following approval of the stormwater management permit or individual
lot plot plan permit by the City of Greensburg and commencement of construction
activities, the City of Greensburg has the authority to conduct inspections of
the site to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this section, the
approved Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, the Indiana Stormwater Quality
Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   A self-monitoring program (SMP) shall be implemented by the project
site owner to ensure the stormwater pollution prevention plan is working
effectively. A trained individual, acceptable to the City of Greensburg, shall
monitor and manage project construction and stormwater activities. Details
regarding the required monitoring activities are contained in the City of
Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this section,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
Recommendations by the trained individual for modified stormwater quality
measures should be implemented.
   (D)   A project management log shall be maintained at the project site or in
the possession of on-site individuals associated with the management and
operations of the construction activities. Details regarding requirements
related to the project management log are contained in the City of Greensburg
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 52.075 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
52.060 through
52.063, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, which is to be submitted to
the City of Greensburg as art of the stormwater management permit application,
shall also include post-construction stormwater quality measures. These
measures are incorporated as a permanent feature into the site plan and are
left in place following completion of construction activities to continuously
treat stormwater runoff from the stabilized site. Any project located within
the corporate boundaries of the City of Greensburg that includes clearing,
grading, excavation, and other land disturbing activities, resulting in the
disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total land area is subject to the
requirements of this section. This includes both new development and re-
development, and disturbances of land less than 10,000 square feet of total
land area that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the
larger common plan will ultimately disturb 10,000 square feet or more of total
land area. In addition, regardless of the amount of disturbance, the City of
Greensburg reserves the right to require pre-treatment BMPs for proposed hot
spot developments in accordance with provisions contained in the City of
Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (B)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Construction activities associated with a single-family residential
dwelling disturbing less than one acre, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale; or individual building lots within a
larger permitted project.
   (C)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 IAC 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under IC 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 IAC 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the City of Greensburg in accordance with §§
52.090 through
52.093. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
proper construction and installation of all stormwater BMPs (especially, the
protection of post-stormwater BMPs during construction phase) in compliance
with this chapter and with the approved stormwater management permit, and to
notify the City of Greensburg upon completion of the project and stabilization
of the site, requesting a termination inspection to be performed by the City of
Greensburg. However, all eventual property owners of stormwater quality
facilities meeting the applicability requirements shall comply with the
requirements of this section and this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.076 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that developed areas, as compared to undeveloped
areas, generally have increased imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates,
increased runoff rates, and increased concentrations of pollutants such as
fertilizers, herbicides, greases, oil, salts and other pollutants. As new
development and re-development continues within the corporate boundaries of the
City of Greensburg, measures shall be taken to intercept and filter pollutants
from stormwater runoff prior to reaching regional creeks, streams, and rivers.
Through the use of appropriate best management practices (BMPs), stormwater
runoff will be filtered and harmful amounts of sediment, nutrients, and
contaminants will be removed.
   (B)   It is also recognized that another major source of pollution in many
Indiana streams, including those within the corporate boundaries of the City of
Greensburg, is the streambank erosion associated with urbanizing watersheds.
Stream channels develop their shape in response to the volume and rate of
runoff that they receive from their contributing watersheds. Research has shown
that in hydrologically stable watersheds, the stream flow responsible for most
of the shaping of the channel (called the bankfull flow) occurs between every
one to two years. When land is developed, the volume and rate of runoff from
that land increases for these comparatively small flooding events that are not
normally addressed by the detention practices and the stream channel will adapt
by changing its shape. As the stream channel works to reach a new stable shape,
excess erosion occurs. As new development and re-development continues within
the corporate boundaries of the City of Greensburg, measures shall be taken to
minimize the impact of such development or re-development on streambank
erosion. Through the use of appropriate Best Management Practices (BMPs), to
retain and/or detain and slowly release the Channel Protection Volume (CPV) the
volume and rate of runoff for channel forming flows will be reduced in an
attempt to minimize increased streambank erosion in the receiving streams and
channels.
   (C)   The project site owner shall submit to the City of Greensburg a
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) that shows placement of
appropriate BMP(s) from a pre-approved list of BMPs specified in the City of
Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The SWPPP submittal shall
include an Operation and Maintenance Manual for all post-construction BMP(s)
included in the project and a notarized Maintenance Agreement, consistent with
the sample agreement provided in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual, providing for the long-term maintenance of those BMPs, both
of which shall be recorded with the deed for the property on which the project
is located. The noted BMP(s) shall be designed, constructed, and maintained
according to guidelines provided or referenced in the City of Greensburg
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Practices other than those specified in
the pre-approved list may be utilized. However, the burden of proof, as to
whether the performance and ease of maintenance of such practices will be
according to guidelines provided in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual, would be placed with the applicant. Details regarding the
procedures and criteria for consideration of acceptance of such BMPs are
provided in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (D)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas shall install appropriate
practices (as noted under "hot spots" provision in the Technical Standards) to
reduce lead, copper, zinc, and polyaromatic hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff.
These requirements will apply to all new facilities and existing facilities
that replace their tanks, regardless of the size of the facility.
   (E)   Discharges from new development and redevelopment sites will not be
allowed directly into karst features without pre-treatment.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.077 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
52.042.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures or BMPs shall meet the design
criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the City of Greensburg
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The methods and procedures included in
the referenced standards is in keeping with the above stated policy and meet or
exceed the requirements of IDEM's MS4 GP.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.078 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All stormwater quality management systems, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters, infiltration systems,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances located outside of the right-
of-way shall be incorporated into permanent easements. For the purposes of
monitoring, inspection, and general maintenance activities, adequate easement
width, as detailed in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual, beyond the actual footprint of the stormwater quality management
facility as well as a 20-foot-wide access easement from a public right-of-way
to each BMP shall be provided.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.079 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the City of
Greensburg and the commencement of construction activities, the City of
Greensburg has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to
ensure full compliance with the provisions of this section, the approved
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, the City of Greensburg Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit.
   (B)   Stormwater quality facilities shall be maintained in good condition,
in accordance with the operation and maintenance procedures and schedules
listed in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, in
addition to the designed and approved performance specifications for the
facilities and shall not be subsequently altered, revised, or replaced except
as approved by the City of Greensburg.
   (C)   Details regarding the required stormwater BMP Maintenance Agreement,
O&M Maintenance Manual, and a Maintenance Escrow account and their transfer to
other parties or subsequent owners prior to release of the maintenance bond
discussed in §§
52.090 through
52.099 is provided in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.
   (D)   The City of Greensburg also has the authority to perform long-term,
post-construction inspection of all public or privately owned stormwater
quality facilities. The inspection will cover physical conditions, available
water quality storage capacity and the operational condition of key facility
elements. Noted deficiencies and required corrective action will be included in
an inspection report.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
§ 52.090 CONCEPTUAL DRAINAGE PLAN REVIEW.
   In order to gain an understanding of the drainage requirements for a
specific project, a developer may submit conceptual drainage plans and
calculations for review by the City of Greensburg. The direction provided by
the City of Greensburg during such a review is based on preliminary data and
shall not be construed as an acceptance or binding of either party. The
following is a general listing of minimum data requirements for the review of
conceptual drainage plans (all shall be in a digital format):
   (A)   A complete set of conceptual plans showing general project layout,
including existing and proposed drainage system (plan sheets hall be a minimum
of 11 inches by 17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches).
   (B)   General description of the existing and proposed drainage systems in
narrative form.
   (C)   Map showing on-site 100-year floodplain and floodway (please note if
none exists).
   (D)   Map showing all wetlands, lakes, and ponds on or adjacent to the site.
   (E)   Watershed boundaries with USGS Contours or best information possible.
   (F)   Drainage calculations detailing existing and proposed discharges from
the site.
   (G)   Existing watercourse or regulated drains.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.091 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   This section applies to all development, or re-development of land, that
results in land disturbance of one acre or more. Individual lots with land
disturbance less than one acre shall refer to §§
52.060 through
52.063, §§
52.075 through
52.079 and §
52.093 for plan review requirements and procedures. Figure 1 is a flowchart
summarizing the plan review/permit approval/project termination compliance
process for land disturbance of one acre or more and can be found at the end of
this section.
   (A)   General procedures.
      (1)   The project site owner shall submit an application for a stormwater
management permit to the City of Greensburg. The application will include a
completed application checklist, construction plan sheets, a stormwater
drainage technical report, a stormwater pollution prevention plan, and any
other necessary support information. Specific information to be included in the
application can be found in §
52.092. The application and the supporting documentation shall be submitted in
digital form to the City of Greensburg. The City of Greensburg may, at its
discretion, require additional copies be submitted to other entities deemed
appropriate by the City of Greensburg.
      (2)   After the City of Greensburg's receipt of the application, the
applicant will be notified as to whether their application was complete or
insufficient. The applicant will be asked for additional information if the
application is insufficient. If the application is complete, it will be
reviewed in detail by the City of Greensburg and/or its plan review consultant
(s). Once all comments have been received and review completed, the City of
Greensburg will either approve the project, request modifications or deny the
project. If the applicant does not agree with or accept the review findings and
wishes to seek an appeal, the City of Greensburg will place the project on the
agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City of Greensburg Board
of Works, provided the agenda for the meeting has not yet been advertised or
published. If time for notification does not allow, the project shall be placed
on the following regularly scheduled meeting of the City of Greensburg Board of
Works. If the project must go through a scheduled meeting, the City of
Greensburg will furnish the applicant a complete list of comments and
objections to the plans and accompanying data prior to the scheduled meeting.
After the scheduled meeting, the City of Greensburg will either issue a permit,
request modifications to the construction plans or deny the project.
      (3)   The project site owner shall notify the City of Greensburg and IDEM
before beginning construction. Notification to the City of Greensburg shall be
in the form of an email while the notification to IDEM shall be in the form of
an online IDEM NOI submittal. Once a permit has been issued and the pending
construction notifications submitted to the City of Greensburg and IDEM before
the beginning of construction, construction may commence. Once construction
starts, the project owner shall monitor construction activities and inspect all
stormwater pollution prevention measures in compliance with this chapter and
the terms and conditions of the approved permit. Upon completion of
construction activities, a Certification of Completion and Compliance and as-
built plans shall be submitted to the City of Greensburg. Once the construction
site has been stabilized and all temporary erosion and sediment control
measures have been removed, a notification shall be sent to the City of
Greensburg, requesting a termination inspection. The City of Greensburg, or its
representative, shall inspect the construction site to verify that the
completed project is fully stabilized and meets the requirements of City of
Greensburg's stormwater chapter and its technical standards and that the terms
and conditions of the permit. Once the applicant receives a signed copy of the
Termination Inspection Checklist confirming compliance, they shall forward a
copy to IDEM along with the required IDEM NOT form. Permits issued by the City
of Greensburg under this scenario will expire five years from the date of
issuance. If construction is not completed within five years, an updated permit
application shall be submitted to the City of Greensburg and an updated NOI
shall be resubmitted to IDEM at least 90 days prior to expiration.
   (B)   SWPPP review time limits.
      (1)   Pursuant to IC 13-18-27, an MS4-designated entity or other review
authority such as SWCD shall make a preliminary determination as to whether the
construction plan associated with SWPPP is substantially complete before the
end of the tenth working day (for sites with less than five acres of land
disturbance) after the day on which the SWPPP is submitted to the review
authority or the fourteenth working day (for sites with five acres or larger of
land disturbance) after the day on which the SWPPP is submitted to the review
authority.
      (2)   Note that the above time limits only apply to the SWPPP portion of
the overall stormwater permit submittal and do not affect any official or non-
official permit review timelines set by the entity for other aspects of the
stormwater permit application.
   Figure 1: Permit Approval and Project Termination Sign-Off Process
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1199a6242ee89836ad08ce88dd91846aa8857b3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3582.png]
 
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.092 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of the
informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in the
"Applicability and Exemptions" sections (§§
52.020,
52.040,
52.060). If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements of
this chapter, an application should be filed listing the exemption criteria
met, in lieu of the information requirements listed below. This level of
detailed information is not required from individual lots, disturbing less than
one acre of land, developed within a larger permitted project site. Review and
acceptance of such lots is covered under §
52.093.
   (B)   The different elements of a permit submittal include an application
checklist, construction plans, a stormwater drainage technical report, a
stormwater pollution prevention plan for active construction sites, a post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan, and any other necessary
supporting information. All plans, reports, calculations, and narratives shall
be signed and sealed by a professional engineer or a licensed surveyor,
registered in the State of Indiana who also meets the definition of a certified
professional found in §
52.005.
   (C)   Application checklist. As part of the City of Greensburg stormwater
management permit application package, the application checklist provided in
the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual shall be completed
by the applicant and provided along with other required supporting material.
   (D)   Construction plans. Construction plan sheets (larger than 11 inches by
17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size) and an
accompanying narrative report shall describe and depict the existing and
proposed conditions. Note that in order to gain an understanding of and to
evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a specific
project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall multi-
section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for the
first section/phase being permitted shall be accompanied by an overall project
plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of all
detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. Construction plans shall include items listed m the application
checklist provided in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.
   (E)   Stormwater drainage technical report. A written stormwater drainage
technical report shall contain a discussion of the steps taken in the design of
the stormwater drainage system. Note that in order to gain an understanding of
and to evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a
specific project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall
multi-section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for
the first section/phase being permitted shall be accompanied by an overall
project plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of
all detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. The technical report needs to include items listed in the
application checklist provided in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
   (F)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites. For sites
with total disturbance of one acre or more, a stormwater pollution prevention
plan associated with construction activities shall be designed to, at least,
meet the requirements of this chapter. The SWPPP and construction plans shall
include the items listed in the application checklist provided in the City of
Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. For land disturbances
totaling 10,000 square feet or more of land area but less than one acre,
appropriate erosion and sediment control measures that are consistent with the
City of Greensburg Technical Standards shall be designed and shown on the
plans.
   (G)   Post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan. For sites with
total land disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total land area, a
post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan shall be designed to, at
least, meet the requirements of this chapter and shall include the information
provided in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan shall include items
listed in the application checklist provided in the City of Greensburg
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.093 REVIEW OF INDIVIDUAL LOTS.
   (A)   For all individual lots disturbing 10,000 square feet or more but less
than one acre, a formal review and issuance of an individual lot plot plan
permit will be required before a building permit can be issued. Similarly, for
individual lots disturbing less than 10,000 square feet of total land area,
developed within a larger permitted project, a formal review and issuance of an
individual lot plot plan permit will be required before a building permit can
be issued. All stormwater management measures necessary to comply with this
chapter shall be implemented in accordance with permitted plan for the larger
project.
   (B)   The following information shall be submitted to the City of
Greensburg, for review and acceptance, by the individual lot operator, whether
owning the property or acting as the agent of the property owner, as part of a
request for review and issuance of an individual lot plot plan permit that
shall be obtained prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      (1)   A site layout for the subject lot and all adjacent lots showing
building pad location, dimensions and elevations, and the drainage patterns and
swales.
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access.
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance.
         (c)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot.
         (d)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment shall be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules.
         (e)   Implementation of concrete or cementitious wash water practices
that securely contain and allow for the proper disposal of concrete or
cementitious wash water waste.
         (f)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator shall be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization.
         (g)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
      (3)   Certification of Compliance stating that the individual lot plan is
consistent with the stormwater management permit, as approved by the City of
Greensburg, for the larger project (if the individual lot is part of a larger
permitted project).
      (4)   Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications of the
trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution prevention
self-monitoring program for the project site.
   (C)   The individual lot operator is responsible for installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.094 CHANGES TO PLANS.
   Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications after
approval of the applicable stormwater management permit shall be filed with,
and accepted by, the City of Greensburg prior to the land development involving
the change. Copies of the changes, if accepted, shall be attached to the
original plans and specifications.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.095 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   (1)   Fee amount. As a condition of the submittal and the review of
development plans by the City of Greensburg, the applicant shall agree to pay
the City of Greensburg the applicable fee, as set by the City of Greensburg
with respect to the review of all drainage submittals, preliminary plans, final
plans, construction plans and accompanying information and data, as well as
prepaid inspection fees.
      (2)   Stormwater permit application and inspections fee schedule.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Single-family dwelling (less than one acre): $150.
            2.   Single-family dwelling (greater than one acre): $250.
            3.   Single-family dwelling development: $250 + $20/acre.
            4.   Multi-family dwelling (apartment buildings, garden apartments,
condominiums, cooperatives, mobile homes in parks, town homes, duplexes): $250
+ $20/acre.
            5.   Infill development less than 10,000 square feet does not
require a stormwater permit application.
         (b)   Commercial/industrial.
            1.   Commercial building/hotel/warehouse: $250 + $20/acre.
            2.   Remodel/addition: $150.
            3.   Commercial and industrial developments: $250 + $20/acre.
            4.   Institutional/educational/church: $150 + $20/acre.
         (c)   Erosion and sediment control inspection fees. All erosion and
sediment control inspections, which may include but are not limited to an
initial inspection, routine inspections, complaint inspections, and termination
inspections, will require a fee above and
beyond the application fees. The additional fee will be 100% of the cost of the
review by the outsourced inspector. Inspections completed by city employees
will be billed at a cost of $200 per inspection. Each inspection will be
accompanied by a completed inspection form and pictures. These fees shall be
paid to the office of the City Utilities Department and shall be paid in full
before the onset of service by the City Utilities Department.
         (d)   Engineering review fees. All engineering projects will require a
review fee above and beyond the application fees. The additional fee will be
100% of the cost of the review by the outsourced engineer. This fee shall be
paid to the office of the City Utilities Department and shall be paid in full
before the onset of service by the City Utilities Department.
   (B)   Time of payment.
      (1)   After the meeting at which the City of Greensburg is scheduled to
consider acceptance of the applicant's final stormwater management plan, the
City of Greensburg will furnish a written statement to the applicant specifying
the total amount due the City of Greensburg in connection with the review of
the applicant's submittals, plans and accompanying information and data,
including the amount required to be paid by applicant for review and pre-paid
inspection fees.
      (2)   As a condition of acceptance of final drainage plans by the City of
Greensburg, applicant shall pay to the City of Greensburg the sum set forth in
said statement. The City of Greensburg may issue such a billing statement
before the project advances to the final acceptance stage, and such payment is
due by applicant upon receipt of said billing statement regardless of whether
the project is advanced to the final acceptance stage.
      (3)   The City of Greensburg shall have the right to not accept the
drainage improvements or to not approve the advancement of any project for
which the applicable fees have not been paid.
   (C)   Method of payment.
      (1)   Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
         (a)   Check;
         (b)   Certified check;
         (c)   Cashier's check;
         (d)   Money order;
         (e)   Credit card;
         (f)   Electronic payment (if available).
      (2)   All checks shall be made payable to the:
         City of Greensburg
         314 W Washington St.
         Greensburg, IN 472405
   (D)   Refund of payment. Fees are refundable only if the City of Greensburg
determines that compliance by the development or project to this chapter is not
necessary.
   (E)   Fee schedule. Stormwater permit application and inspection fees will
be in accordance with the fee schedule set by City of Greensburg.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23; Am. Ord. 2024-24, passed 11-12-24)
§ 52.096 REQUIRED ASSURANCES.
   This section shall apply to all projects whether the stormwater management
system or portions thereof will be dedicated to the City of Greensburg or
retained privately. As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the
City of Greensburg shall require the applicant to provide assurance in form of
an irrevocable letter of credit or a bond when the stormwater management plan
has been accepted and before construction begins. Said assurance will guarantee
a good faith execution of the stormwater drainage plan, the stormwater
pollution prevention plan, the stormwater quality management plan, and any
permit conditions. The assurance shall be for an amount equal to 125 percent of
the total costs of all stormwater management measures for the entire project.
The above-mentioned costs shall be based on an estimate as prepared by a
registered engineer or land surveyor, and be approved by the City of
Greensburg. Said costs shall be for the installation and ongoing monitoring and
maintenance of erosion control measures and the construction and ongoing
monitoring and maintenance of storm drainage infrastructure, detention/
retention facilities, and stormwater quality BMPs, as regulated under this
chapter, until the construction is completed, the site is stabilized, and as-
built plans are accepted by the City of Greensburg. Assurances shall be for a
minimum of $5,000. All other performance bonds, maintenance bonds or other
assurances required by the City of Greensburg in accordance with any and all
other ordinances shall also apply and so be required. Local governmental
jurisdictions may require additional performance and/or maintenance assurances.
The intent of this assurance is not only to complete the installation of storm
drain infrastructure for the project, but also to assure that adequate
stormwater pollution prevention measures are properly installed and maintained.
If adequate assurances are set aside by the project site owner for the overall
project, proof of total assurance can be submitted in place of an individual
stormwater assurance.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.097 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   In granting a stormwater management permit, the City of Greensburg may
impose and include as part of the permit such terms and conditions as are
reasonably necessary to meet the purposes of this chapter. The project site
owner shall ensure compliance with such terms and conditions. Non-compliance
with the terms and conditions of permits will be subject to enforcement as
described in §§
52.110 through
52.113.
   (B)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractor,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors, and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit
and the schedule for proposed implementation.
   (C)   In the event that a project site is determined to impact or discharge
to a sensitive area or is located in an impact drainage area, the City of
Greensburg may require more stringent stormwater quantity and quality measures
than detailed in this chapter or in the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual.
      (1)   Determination of sensitive areas. Sensitive areas include highly
erodible soils, wetlands, karst areas, threatened or endangered species
habitat, outstanding waters, impaired waters, recreational waters, and surface
drinking water sources. Any discharge from a stormwater practice that is a
Class V injection well shall meet the Indiana groundwater quality standards and
registered with US EPA as required by the IDEM. If wetlands are suspected on a
site, a wetland delineation shall be completed by the applicant in accordance
with the methodology established by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE). The
need for the applicant to check for the presence of threatened or endangered
species habitat will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Special terms and
conditions for development determined to impact or discharge to any sensitive
area shall be included in the stormwater management permit.
      (2)   Determination of impact drainage areas.
         (a)   The following areas shall be designated as impact drainage
areas, unless good reason for not including them is presented to the City of
Greensburg.
            1.   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the most updated
FEMA Code dealing with floodplain regulation and/or by the Best Available Data
through IDNR.
            2.   Land within 25 feet of each bank of any ditch within the City
of Greensburg's system.
            3.   Land within 15 feet of the centerline of any stormwater
infrastructure or enclosed conduit within the City of Greensburg's system.
            4.   Land within 75 feet of each bank of a county open regulated
drain.
            5.   Land within 50 feet of a natural drainageway.
            6.   Land within 75 feet of the centerline of any tiled regulated
drain.
            7.   Land within the fluvial erosion hazard (FEH) corridor.
            8.   Land within the expected breach inundation zone of an existing
or proposed new dam, and areas protected from flooding by a levee.
         (b)   The City of Greensburg is authorized, but is not required, to
classify certain geographical areas as impact drainage areas. In determining
impact drainage areas, the City of Greensburg may consider such factors as
topography, soil type, capacity of existing drains, and distance from adequate
drainage facility.
         (c)   Land that does not have an adequate outlet, taking into
consideration the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an
impact drainage area by the City of Greensburg. Special terms and conditions
for development within any impact drainage area shall be included in the
stormwater management permit.
      (3)   Determination of designated drainage areas served by regional
facilities. The City of Greensburg is authorized, but is not required, to
classify certain geographical areas as designated drainage areas that are or
will be served by regional facilities, such as a regional pond. In such cases,
an infrastructure development fee (IDF) rate may be established for the
designated drainage area the basis for determining such a fee for a proposed
development or re-development within a designated drainage area will be as
detailed in the City of Greensburg Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.098 CERTIFICATION OF AS-BUILT PLANS.
   This section shall apply to all projects whether the stormwater management
system or portions thereof will be dedicated to the City of Greensburg or
retained privately. After completion of construction of the project and before
the release of required. performance assurances referenced in §
52.096, a professionally prepared and certified as-built set of plans record
drawings) shall be submitted to the City of Greensburg or review. These as-
built plans/record drawings shall be prepared and certified by the engineer of
record, i.e., the company/engineer who originally prepared the construction
plans. Additionally, a digital copy of the as-built plans (record drawings) as
well as finalized digital versions of all analyses, models, manuals, and
reports that are consistent with the as-built conditions is required in a
format acceptable to the City of Greensburg. These plans shall include all
pertinent data relevant to the completed storm drainage system and stormwater
management facilities, and shall include:
   (A)   Pipe size and pipe material;
   (B)   Invert elevations;
   (C)   Top rim elevations;
   (D)   Elevation of the emergency overflow (spillway) for ponds;
   (E)   Grades along the emergency flood routing path(s);
   (F)   Pipe structure lengths;
   (G)   BMP types, dimensions, and boundaries/easements;
   (H)   "As-planted" plans for BMPs, as applicable;
   (I)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume;
   (J)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity; and
   (K)   Certified statement on plans stating the completed storm drainage
system and stormwater management facilities substantially comply with
construction plans and the stormwater management permit as approved by the City
of Greensburg. (See certificate in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual).
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.099 POST-PROJECT MAINTENANCE BOND AND VERIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to as-built plans and the certification of completion and
compliance, following the release of performance assurances, the property
owner, developer, or contractor shall be required to file a two-year
maintenance bond or other acceptable guarantee with the City of Greensburg in
an amount not to exceed 25% of the cost of the stormwater management system
located outside the public road rights-of-way, and in a form satisfactory to
the City of Greensburg in order to assure that such stormwater system
installation was done according to standards of good workmanship, that the
materials used in the construction and installation were of good quality and
construction, and that such project was done in accordance with the accepted
plans, and this chapter and that any off-site drainage problems that may arise,
whether upstream or downstream of such project, will be corrected if such
drainage problems are determined by City of Greensburg to have been caused by
the development of such project. The bond or other acceptable guarantee shall
be in effect for a period of two years after the date of the release of
required performance assurances referenced in §
52.096. The beneficiary of all maintenance bonds shall be the common Council of
the City of Greensburg.
   (B)   To verify that all stormwater infrastructure is functioning properly,
visual recordings (via closed circuit television) of such infrastructure,
including all subsurface drains, shall be required twice, once following the
completion of installation of the stormwater management system and submittal of
as-builts, and the second time before release of maintenance bonds. These
visual recordings will be scheduled by the City of Greensburg and paid for by
the developer. Notices shall be provided to the City of Greensburg within 72
hours following the completion of installation and again at least 60 days prior
to the expiration date of the maintenance bond so that the noted recordings may
be scheduled. Reports summarizing the results of the noted visual recordings
shall be reviewed and accepted by the City of Greensburg before the plat is
recommended for recording and again before the maintenance bond shall be
recommended to be released.
   (C)   Additional requirements for transfer of any applicable stormwater BMP
Maintenance Agreement, O&M Maintenance Manual, and Maintenance Escrow accounts
to subsequent owners prior to release of the maintenance bond is discussed in
§§
52.075 through
52.079.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.110 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   To secure compliance with the requirements of this chapter, violations
thereof shall be subject to the enforcement provisions set forth under §
52.111. Additionally, compliance with all applicable ordinances of the City of
Greensburg as well as with applicable State of Indiana statues and regulations
shall also be required. Unless otherwise stated, all other specifications
referred to in this chapter shall be the most recent edition available.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   Violation. Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of
this chapter, the requirements of an approved stormwater management design plan
or permit, and/or the requirements of a recorded stormwater maintenance
agreement may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section.
Any such action or inaction is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated
by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties
described below shall not prevent such equitable relief in addition to and
separate from the imposition of any of the enforcement actions described below.
      (2)   Compliance. The act of correcting a violation or violations within
the time frame specified by the City of Greensburg.
      (3)   Offense. Both a violation and a failure of compliance on a
particular project constitute an “offense.” If there are multiple violations or
multiple failures of compliance on the same project, each shall be considered a
separate offense as further stated in §
52.111(C).
   (B)   Warning notice. When the City of Greensburg finds that any person has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order
issued hereunder, the City of Greensburg may serve upon that person a written
warning notice, specifying the particular violation believed to have occurred
and requesting the discharger to immediately investigate the matter and to seek
a resolution whereby any offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or
resolution of the matter in response to the Warning Notice in no way relieves
the alleged violator of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the warning notice. Nothing in this subsection shall limit the
authority of the City of Greensburg to take any action, including emergency
action or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a warning notice.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.111 ENFORCEMENT OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Notice of violation/citation.
      (1)   If the City of Greensburg determines that an applicant or other
responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a
permit, an approved stormwater management design plan, a recorded stormwater
management maintenance agreement, or the provisions of this chapter, it shall
issue a written Notice of Violation to such applicant or other responsible
person and the owner of the property. Where a person is engaged in activity
covered by this chapter without having first secured a permit therefore, the
notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in
charge of the activity being conducted on the site.
      (2)   The notice of violation can be in the form of a citation ticket
and/or a written letter that would contain detailed inspection findings,
conclusions of law, disposition of warning or fines assessed, stipulated
remedial actions as discussed with the responsible party representative,
reasonable deadlines for those remedial actions, and the date of re-inspection.
   (B)   Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties,
and remedies authorized by this chapter, the City of Greensburg may impose upon
a violator, alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling,
attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, public education, etc.
   (C)   Civil penalties for violations.
      (1)   Any person who commits an offense under this chapter commits a
civil infraction subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each offense, plus
costs, damages, and expenses. Each day such violation occurs or continues
without a compliance action that is satisfactory to the City of Greensburg
shall be deemed a separate offense and shall make the violator liable for the
imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for in this
section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
An admission or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this
chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
      (3)   The City of Greensburg has established an enforcement response
schedule that standardizes the approach that the City of Greensburg may, in its
discretion, employ in dealing with stormwater regulations offenses subject to
this chapter and the associated technical standards document. When so employed,
this Schedule shall apply separately to each offense in the following manner:
The first offense is the underlying violation itself, while the subsequent
offenses two through eight (as necessary) are failures of compliance.
Offense # Type of Response Anticipated
Offense #   Type of Response Anticipated
1st offense Verbal telephone notice, letter of violation or written warning and
            administrative penalty
2nd offense Letter of violation, administrative penalty and/or site visit
3rd offense Letter of violation, administrative penalty and/or site visit
4th offense Letter of violation, administrative penalty and/or site visit
5th offense Agreed order, administrative penalty and/or site visit
6th offense Administrative order, administrative penalty and/or site visit
7th offense Compliance schedule, administrative penalty and/or site visit
8th offense Litigation and administrative penalty
 
      (4)   Likewise, in order to standardize the approach that the City of
Greensburg may, in its discretion, employ in the imposition of administrative
penalties, the City of Greensburg has established the following schedule of
administrative penalties. Again, the penalty for the first offense would apply
to the violation itself, while the subsequent penalties two through four (as
necessary) would apply to failures of compliance. In its discretion, the City
of Greensburg may impose penalties up to the amount specified in this schedule.
 
Offense #   Penalty
1st offense $250.00
2nd offense $500.00
3rd offense $1,000.00
4th offense $2,500.00
 
   (D)   Stop work order.
      (1)   In addition to the penalties listed above, if land disturbance
activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of this chapter or accepted
final stormwater management plans, the City of Greensburg may order the work
stopped by notice in writing served on any person engaged in the doing or
causing of such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such
work until authorized by the City of Greensburg to proceed with the work. A
stop work order will be posted on the site by the City of Greensburg, and it is
unlawful for any person to remove the notice or continue any work on the site
without permission from the City of Greensburg. The City of Greensburg may also
undertake or cause to be undertaken, any necessary or advisable protective
measures to prevent violations of this chapter or to avoid or reduce the
effects of noncompliance herewith. The cost of any such protective measures
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property upon which the work is
being done and the responsibility of any person carrying out or participating
In the work.
      (2)   The City of Greensburg may bring an action under IC 34-28-5-1(b),
to be read together with IC 34-6-2-86(1)(B) and 13-21-3-12(4), to enforce a
stop work order against any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop
work order.
      (3)   For construction projects that are operating under a SWPPP approved
by the City of Greensburg, if a stop work order is issued on the grounds that
the erosion and sediment control measures included in the construction plan are
not adequate, the project site owner shall be notified in writing of the
inadequacies in the erosion and sediment control measures and the project site
owner has 72 hours after receiving written notice to resolve the identified
inadequacies before the stop work order can take effect.
      (4)   The 72-hour period to resolve identified inadequacies on a
construction project does not apply if the stop work order is issued to a
construction project where the project site owner is creating a public health
hazard or safety hazard.
   (E)   Withhold certificate of occupancy. The City of Greensburg may refuse
to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements
constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other
responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of
violation or has otherwise satisfied the requirements of this chapter as
determined by the City of Greensburg.
   (F)   Suspension, revocation, or modification of permits. The City of
Greensburg may suspend, revoke, or modify any existing permit that the violator
may also have been previously granted. A suspended, revoked, or modified permit
may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the
remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured
the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated upon
such conditions as the City of Greensburg may deem necessary to enable the
applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures
to cure such violations.
   (G)   Suspension of access to the stormwater drainage system.
      (1)   Emergency cease and desist orders.
         (a)   When the City of Greensburg finds that any person has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued
hereunder, or that the person's past violations are likely to recur, and that
the person's violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to an actual or
threatened discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States which reasonably
appears to present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons or to the environment, the City of Greensburg may issue an
order to the violator directing it immediately to cease and desist all such
violations and directing the violator to immediately comply with all ordinance
requirements and take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
         (b)   Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under
this subsection shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering
discharge. In the event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the emergency order, the City of Greensburg may commence court
action against such person under IC 34-28-5-1(b), to be read together with IC
34-6-2-86(1)(B) and 13-21-3-12(4), to enforce a stop work order.
         (c)   The City of Greensburg may allow the person to recommence its
discharge when it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the City of
Greensburg that the period of endangerment has passed, unless further
termination proceedings are initiated against the discharger under this
chapter. A person that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful discharge and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence to the City of Greensburg within five days of
receipt of the emergency order. Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the violator.
      (2)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
City of Greensburg may, without prior notice, suspend stormwater drainage
system discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop
an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and
substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons,
or to the stormwater drainage system or waters of the state if the violator
fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the City of
Greensburg may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize
damage to the stormwater drainage system or waters of the state, or to minimize
danger to persons.
      (3)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the stormwater drainage system in violation of this chapter may
have their stormwater drainage system access terminated if such termination
would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The City of Greensburg will notify
a violator of the proposed termination of its stormwater drainage system
access. The violator may petition the City of Greensburg for a reconsideration
and hearing. A person commits an offense if the person reinstates stormwater
drainage system access to premises terminated pursuant to this Section, without
the prior approval of the City of Greensburg.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.112 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, the City of Greensburg may, after giving
notice and opportunity for compliance, have the necessary work done, and the
owner shall be required to promptly reimburse the City of Greensburg for all
costs of such work.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City of Greensburg from
taking such other lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. All costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons
responsible. Costs include, but are not limited to, repairs to the stormwater
drainage system made necessary by the violation, as well as those penalties
levied by the EPA or IDEM for violation of the City of Greensburg's NPDES
permit, administrative costs, attorney fees, court costs, and other costs and
expenses associated with the enforcement of this chapter, including sampling
and monitoring expenses.
   (C)   If the amount due for abatement of the violation is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the City of Greensburg or by the
expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the City of Greensburg may
commence a court action to recover the costs assessed under IC 34-28-5-1(b), to
be read together with IC 34-6-2-86(1)(B) and 13-21-3-12(4).
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
§ 52.113 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person to whom any provision of
this chapter has been applied may appeal in writing, not later than 30 days
after the action or decision being appealed from, to the City of Greensburg
Board of Works the action or decision whereby any such provision was so
applied. Such appeal shall identify the matter being appealed, and the basis
for the appeal. The City of Greensburg Board of Works shall consider the appeal
and make a decision whereby it affirms, rejects or modifies the action being
appealed. In considering any such appeal, the City of Greensburg Board of Works
shall consider the recommendations of the City of Greensburg Staff and the
comments of other persons having knowledge of the matter. In considering any
such appeal, the City of Greensburg Board of Works may grant a variance from
the terms of this chapter to provide relief, in whole or in part, from the
action being appealed, but only upon finding that the following requirements
are satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the ordinance; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff.
      (3)   Pursuant to IC 36-1-6-9(e) and (f), any person who has appealed
against a violation to the City of Greensburg Board and has received an adverse
decision that the person objects to may appeal that decision to the Decatur
County court within 60 days of the Board's order.
   (B)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Notice of Violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within five days of the decision of the City of
Greensburg Board of Work upholding the decision of the City of Greensburg
Engineer, then representatives of the City of Greensburg shall enter upon the
subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures
necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property, including the
commencing of a court action under IC 34-28-5-1(b),to be read together with IC
34-6-2-86(1)(B) and 13-21-3-12(4), to enforce the order of the City of
Greensburg Board of Works.
(Ord. 2023-15 passed 9-12-23)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   BICYCLES
      
74.   RAILROADS
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Enforcement of traffic code
   
70.02   Posting of signs
Vehicle Inspection
   
70.20   Vehicle inspection fee
   
70.21   Remittance of fee; receipt
   
70.22   Special Vehicle Inspection Fund
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned and junked vehicles, see Ch.
114
   Mobile food vending vehicles, see Ch.
113
   Streets and sidewalks, see Ch.
95
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, license, and prohibit the use of public ways or
property by vehicles, devices, or machines that transport persons, animals, or
property, see IC 36-9-2-5 through 36-9-2-7
   Power of local authorities to regulate traffic, see IC 9-21-1-3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC CODE.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department of the city to enforce the
provisions of this code, and officers of the Police Department are authorized
to direct all traffic either in person or by means of visible or audible signs
in conformance with the provisions of this code, provided that in the event of
a fire or other emergency, in order to expedite traffic or safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the police or fire department may direct traffic as
conditions may require.
('76 Code, § 15-1) (Ord. passed 9-1-30)
§ 70.02 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner of the city shall post appropriate signs
showing speed limits, parking limitations, and other traffic regulations from
time to time determined.
('76 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. 1969-23, passed 1-5-70)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, move,
destroy, or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
('76 Code, § 15-3) (Ord. passed 9-1-30)
Penalty, see § 70.99
VEHICLE INSPECTION
§ 70.20 VEHICLE INSPECTION FEE.
   The Common Council of the city establishes a fee of $3 per inspection of a
vehicle by a police officer when making a record of the inspection upon the
application form prepared by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles and shall verify the
facts set out in the application.
(Ord. 1988-12, passed 8-1-88)
§ 70.21 REMITTANCE OF FEE; RECEIPT.
   The law enforcement officer shall issue a receipt, General Form #352, for
each fee collected. The fees shall be remitted to the city Clerk-Treasurer at
least once each week. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue an official receipt
for the remittance specifying on such receipt the number of general receipts
included.
(Ord. 1988-12, passed 8-1-88)
§ 70.22 SPECIAL VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall create and maintain a fund for
the inspection fees to be collected from vehicle inspections. This fund shall
be entitled the "Special Vehicle Inspection Fund."
   (B)   The monies deposited in the Special Vehicle Inspection Fund shall not
revert to the general fund from time to time, but rather shall be nonreverting
and continue perpetually until further order of the Common Council of the city.
   (C)   The Special Vehicle Inspection Fund may only be expended, after
appropriation for law enforcement purposes. All expenditures shall be
processed, appropriated, claimed, and allowed in the same manner as other
claims of the municipality.
(Ord. 1988-12, passed 8-1-88)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this title for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   (1)   The City of Greensburg hereby establishes a classification of
City Ordinance violations with the fine penalty for each class as follows:
         (a)   The Class A violation shall be for the most serious violations,
with a fine of $100.
         (b)   The Class B violation shall be a less serious violation than the
Class A violation, with a fine of $50.
         (c)   The Class C violation would be an important violation but not as
serious
         (d)   The Class D violation is the least serious violation, with a
fine of $10.
      (2)   When a citation is issued by the City of Greensburg with the class
of violation noted, the fine applicable to the violation shall be paid within
ten days to the City of Greensburg through the Office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer. If a fine is not paid to the city and it becomes necessary for the
city to file a legal cause of action to recover the fine, the city shall then
be permitted to recover any reasonable and necessary legal expenses associated
with the cause of action.
(Ord. 1999-10, passed 9-7-99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Driving on sidewalks prohibited
   
71.02   Turning in opposite direction
   
71.03   Through streets
   
71.04   Processions
   
71.05   Obstruction of traffic
   
71.06   Unattended vehicles
   
71.07   Speed limits
   
71.08   Reducing speed
   
71.09   Operation of trucks on streets
   
71.10   Use of toy vehicles
   
71.11   Use of side-by-side vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Obstructing sidewalks so as to interfere with traffic, see
§ 95.07
   Traffic regulations in shopping centers, see
§ 98.01
§ 71.01 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or drive any vehicle on any sidewalk within
the city limits, except when crossing such sidewalk at an alley or driveway.
('76 Code, § 15-15) (Ord. passed 9-1-30)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 95
§ 71.02 TURNING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn such vehicle so
as to proceed in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
('76 Code, § 15-16) (Ord. passed 9-1-30)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.03 THROUGH STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any vehicle into and
on a street designated as a through street without first coming to a complete
stop before entering into and on such through street.
('76 Code, § 15-28(c)) (Ord. passed 6-22-39)
Cross-reference:
   Through streets, see
Ch. 75, Schedule II
§ 71.04 PROCESSIONS.
   Funeral and other authorized processions shall have the right-of-way. It
shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive through or between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while such
procession is in motion.
('76 Code, § 15-19) (Ord. passed 9-1-30)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.05 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall drive, conduct, load, or unload any vehicle in such a manner
as to be likely to cause a blockade, accident, or injury to man, beast, or
property, nor shall any vehicle be operated or allowed to remain on the street
or alley in such manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic
thereon.
('76 Code, § 15-20) (Ord. passed 9-1-30; Am. Ord. 1969-23, passed 1-5-70)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.06 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is
running, and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline
unless the vehicle is secured against moving.
('76 Code, § 15-21) (Ord. 1969-23, passed 1-5-70)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.07 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on any street or highway or
alley within the corporate limits of the city at a speed exceeding that
lawfully set for such street or alley.
   (B)   On all alleys within the corporate limits of the city 15 miles per
hour shall be the maximum speed for any vehicle.
   (C)   On streets within the corporate limits of the city, the maximum speed
limit for each district shall be as follows: school zone, 20 mph when children
present; residential, 30 mph; business, 20 mph; and park area, 20 mph when
children present.
   (D)   If the Mayor and Common Council set limits other than those specified
in this section and
Ch. 75, Schedule I, as provided by statute, or for the safety of persons and
property, then such limits shall govern on the streets indicated by appropriate
signs indicating such limits.
('76 Code, § 15-25) (Ord. 1969-23, passed 1-5-70; Am. Ord. 1987-8,
passed 7-6-87)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see
Ch. 75, Schedule I
Statutory reference:
   Altering the prima facie speed limits, see IC 9-21-1-3(a)(11)
§ 71.08 REDUCING SPEED.
   The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum
speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease his speed
while passing schools or while traveling on any public thoroughfare on or
across which children pass going to and from school during school days when
schoolchildren are present, or when approaching and crossing an intersection or
when approaching a hillcrest, or when traveling on any narrow street, or when
special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic by reason of
weather or highway and street conditions. Speed shall also be decreased as may
be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle or on entering the
street in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use
due care.
('76 Code, § 15-27) (Ord. 1969-23, passed 1-5-70)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.09 OPERATION OF TRUCKS ON STREETS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section "TRUCK" shall mean tractor, trailer,
semi-trailer, or tractor-trailer combination, or any truck exceeding 8,000
pounds.
   (B)   The Mayor and Board of Works and Safety are authorized, by resolution
or executive order, to establish and determine those public streets and alleys
that shall not be traveled by trucks and similar motor vehicles.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate any truck or motor vehicle, as defined
in division (A) herein, on a public street or alley within the city limits that
has been closed to such vehicle by proper order or resolution. The Chief of
Police shall designate those streets by appropriate signs.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to those vehicles that are temporarily
traveling streets or alleys in order to reach a specific destination for the
purpose of loading or unloading goods or merchandise.
   (E)   Any person who violates this section shall commit a Class C violation
and be fined not more than $25 for each offense.
(Ord. 1977-12, passed 6-6-77; Am. Ord. 1999-10, passed 9-7-99)
§ 71.10 USE OF TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person traveling on any coaster, sled, roller
skates, or any toy vehicle or similar device, to go on any street or roadway
except while crossing the same at a crosswalk, or on such streets or portions
of streets as may have been set aside for coasting or skating purposes.
('76 Code, § 15-18) (Ord. passed 9-1-30)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.11 USE OF SIDE-BY-SIDE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Subject to the regulations contained in this section, UTV side-by-side
vehicles as defined by IC 14-8-22-233.5, are, under authority as set forth in
IC 9-21-1-3.3, hereby allowed to operate on all highways and streets in the
city subject to the conditions set forth in this section. Four-wheelers are not
allowed on the streets of Greensburg.
   (B)   UTV side-by-side vehicles must be registered annually with the city
with such annual registration being performed by the Greensburg Police
Department by no later than June 1 of each calendar year. To register, each
operator must present a VIN#, the make and model number of their UTV side-by-
side vehicle, proof of address and contact phone number, proof of insurance,
and proof of registration through the Department of Natural Resources, and pay
a processing fee in the sum of $35. This processing fee shall be paid annually.
Processing fee shall be paid to the Greensburg Clerk-Treasurer’s office. Each
vehicle will be visibly inspected for compliance with all Indiana laws and
ordinances. Inspections shall occur at the Greensburg Police Department at a
date and time to be determined by the Greensburg Chief of Police and posted at
the Greensburg police station. Upon registration and inspection, the operator
will be provided with a license plate specific to that vehicle. The license
plate provided by the Greensburg Police Department shall always be displayed
prominently on the rear of the vehicle while on city streets. All funds
received from registration and issuance of license plate shall be deposited
into the General Fund for the City of Greensburg and allocated to recoup costs
of the UTV license registration process and other public safety projects.
   (C)   UTV side-by-side vehicle operators must have proof of valid insurance
covering his or her vehicle in an amount greater than or equal to the Indiana
state automotive insurance minimums as set forth in IC 9-25-4-5 when operated
on city streets.
   (D)   All UTV side-by-side vehicle operators on city streets must comply
with the following:
      (1)   The operator must be at least 18 years of age or older and have a
valid Indiana operator’s license;
      (2)   No passengers are permitted on a single seat UTV side-by- side
vehicle. Passengers on all other UTV side-by-side vehicles are limited to the
number of passenger seats on the vehicle. Any passenger under the age of 18
years of age shall wear a safety helmet in accordance with Indiana state law;
      (3)   UTV side-by-side vehicles must have working turn signals, two
operating headlights, and one tail brake light when in operation on city
streets;
      (4)   No UTV side-by-side vehicles are permitted on city streets from
midnight to 6:00 a.m.;
      (5)   UTV side-by-side vehicles must travel single-file on city streets.
   (E)   Failure to abide by any of the conditions of §
71.11 when a UTV side-by-side vehicle is in use on city streets shall
constitute a violation of this section.
   (F)   Enforcement of this section shall be conducted pursuant to IC 34-28-5.
(Ord. 2019-40, passed 3-2-20; Am. Ord. 2022-09, passed 5-10-22) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Under §
71.01 , Driving on Sidewalks Prohibited and §
71.10 , Use of Toy Vehicles, a violation shall be considered a Class C
violation with a fine of $25 for each offense. (Ord. 1999-10, passed 9-7-99)
   (B)   Fines and penalties for violations of §
71.11 are as follows:
      (1)   First violation - $100.
      (2)   Second violation - $250 and a 60-day suspension from using UTV
side-by-side vehicles on city streets;
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations - $500 and a lifetime suspension
from using UTV side-by-side vehicles on city streets;
      (4)   Any conviction for criminal trespass involving UTV side- by-side
vehicle, as defined by IC 14-8-2-185, subsequent to March 2, 2020, shall result
in an automatic lifetime suspension from the operation of UTV side-by-side
vehicles on city streets.
      (5)   The violation of a 60-day or lifetime suspension shall result in a
$1,000 fine for each offense.
      (6)   All fines shall be paid through Greensburg Clerk- Treasurer, or may
be contested in court.
      (7)   Court costs, as set by the state schedule, and applicable
attorney’s fees shall apply to all cases contested in court.
(Am. Ord. 2019-40, passed 3-2-20)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Parking in alleys, streets or roadways
   
72.02   Parking within marked lines
   
72.03   Angle or center parking
   
72.04   Double parking restricted
   
72.05   Time limit
   
72.06   Buses
   
72.07   Trucks
   
72.08   Exception
   
72.09   Manner of parking
   
72.10   Temporary tow-away zones
   
72.11   Restrictions for parking in handicapped space
   
72.12   Excess of violations; towing
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking of vehicles transporting flammable liquids, see §
92.04
   Parking of vending vehicles, see § 113.06
   Parking regulations in shopping centers, see §
98.01
Statutory reference:
   Regulating the standing or parking of vehicles, see IC 9-21-1-3(a)(1)
§ 72.01 PARKING IN ALLEYS, STREETS OR ROADWAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand,
or park such vehicle in any alley in the city for a period of time longer than
is necessary for the expeditious receiving or discharging of passengers, or for
the loading or unloading or pickup and loading of materials, merchandise, or
freight, and no vehicle shall be stopped or parked in any alley for any such
purpose in such manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than
eight feet of the width of the alley for the free movement of vehicular
traffic.
('76 Code, § 15-40)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand or
park such vehicle in any street or roadway in the city in such a manner as to
block, impede or obstruct the normal flow of traffic in said street or roadway.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand,
or park such vehicle in any area designated as "No Parking" by either posted
signage from the city or by inclusion in
Schedule VI of
Chapter 75 of this code.
(Ord. passed 9-l-30; Am. Ord.1998-23, passed 10-5-98; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed
7-9-24)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.02 PARKING WITHIN MARKED LINES.
   At any place where parallel parking lines have been placed, it shall be
unlawful to park outside of such lines.
('76 Code, § 15-41) (Ord. passed 9-1-30)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 ANGLE OR CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   On those streets which have been marked or signed for angle or center
parking, vehicles other than those specified in §
72.06(A) shall be parked at the angle to the curb or in the center as indicated
by such marks or signs.
   (B)   The Common Council shall determine on what streets, or parts of
streets, angle or center parking shall be permitted and cause the same to be
marked or signed.
('76 Code, § 15-42) (Ord. passed 9-1-30; Am. Ord. passed 6-22-39)
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Angle or center parking, see
Ch. 75, Schedule III
§ 72.04 DOUBLE PARKING RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stand and park such
vehicle in such manner as to constitute what is commonly known as double
parking, except temporarily during the actual receiving or discharging of
passengers, or where designated by order of the Common Council by proper signs.
('76 Code, § 15-44) (Ord. passed 9-1-30)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 TIME LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stand or park such
vehicle in the same location on any street for a period of time longer than 72
hours.
('76 Code, § 15-45) (Ord. passed 9-1-30; Am. Ord. 1997-2, passed 3-3-97)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 BUSES.
   (A)   Special stops authorized. The Chief of Police is authorized and
required to establish and designate by appropriate signs, bus stops on such
public streets and in such places and number as the Common Council shall
direct.
   (B)   Other vehicles not to park in stop. It shall be unlawful for any
vehicle, other than a bus, to stand or park in an officially designated bus
stop, except that the operator of any passenger vehicle may temporarily stop in
any such stop for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   (C)   Buses prohibited from parking in designated places. It shall be
unlawful for the operator of any bus to stand or park such bus in any business
district at any place other than the bus stop except that this provision shall
not prevent the operator of any such bus from temporarily stopping in
accordance with other parking regulations at any place for the purpose of or
while actually engaged in receiving and discharging passengers.
('76 Code, § 15-43) (Ord. passed 9-1-30)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.07 TRUCKS.
   (A)   Residential district. No person owning, leasing, possessing, or
operating a truck, trailer, tractor, or semi-tractor and trailer, boat, boat
trailer, recreational vehicle, self-contained camper, motor home, van, and car
carrier, taller, wider, and longer than a conventional passenger automobile or
station wagon, or pickup truck as originally equipped from the manufacturer,
shall be permitted to park the same on any street or alley within the
residential district of the corporate limits of the city, excepting that such
vehicles may park for a sufficient time to make deliveries or pick up
merchandise, wares, goods, chattels, and supplies, provided such parking does
not interrupt the regular flow of traffic and does not create a hazard for the
safety of others.
   (B)   Business and commercial district. In the business and commercial
district no such trucks shall park on any street or alley within the corporate
limits of the city longer than one hour, excepting that such vehicles may park
for a sufficient time to make deliveries or pick up merchandise, wares, goods,
chattels, and supplies in the regular course of business provided such parking
does not interrupt the regular flow of traffic, does not obstruct the view of
traffic, does not create a hazard for the safety of others, and provided such
parking complies with all other parking regulations in force in the city.
   (C)   Industrial districts. In the industrial districts of the city, all
trucks may park on the streets within the corporate limits in all places
designated for parking, provided such parking does not interrupt the regular
flow of traffic, does not obstruct the view of traffic, and does not create a
hazard for the safety of others and provided such parking complies with all
other parking regulations in force in the city.
('76 Code, § 15-47) (Ord. 1965-4, passed 5-3-65; Am. Ord. 1997-2, passed 3-3-
97)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.08 EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Authorized; fee. The Board of Public Works and Safety and the Chief of
Police of the city are authorized and empowered, by the use of proper markings
and signs, to designate parking places on the streets and highways within the
city for the use of physicians, dentists, veterinarians, and chiropractors,
provided, that a fee shall be paid to the city in the sum of $l per week,
payable on the first day of January, April, July, and October.
   (B)   Unlawful for others to park in spaces. It shall be unlawful for any
person other than physicians, dentists, veterinarians, and chiropractors to
cause or permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name of, owned,
operated, or caused to be operated by such person to be parked in such
designated parking spaces.
('76 Code, § 15-46) (Ord. 1956-4, passed 3-5-56)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.09 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   Every vehicle which is stopped or parked upon a street or roadway
shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle
parallel with and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb of the street, or the
edge of the pavement where no curb exists, except as specified in divisions (B)
and (C) below.
   (B)   The regulation specified in division (A) above shall be in full force
and effect, except on designated one-way streets within the city where parking
is permitted on both sides of the street.
   (C)   The regulation specified in division (A) above shall be in full force
and effect, except on a one-way street where there is no parking permitted on
the right-hand side curb.
   (D)   No motor vehicles shall be permitted to stop or park upon that area of
the street or right-of-way which is located between the street and curb and the
sidewalk, or in any manner park upon a sidewalk in the city.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 3-2-87; Am. Ord. 1998-23, passed 10-5-98)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.10 TEMPORARY TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   (A)   The Street and Sanitation Commissioner of the city is hereby
authorized and empowered to declare temporary tow-away zones on city streets
and rights-of-ways for the purpose of allowing the efficient and unobstructed
sweeping of streets, removal of snow and resurfacing of streets.
   (B)   Whenever the Street and Sanitation Commissioner determines that a need
exists for the establishment of a tow-away zone to accomplish such purposes,
then such Commissioner shall notify affected persons in the following manner:
      (1)   Information regarding the time, place and commencement of the tow-
away zone shall be conveyed to the public news media at least 24 hours in
advance.
      (2)   Legible signs shall be posted along affected streets and rights-of-
way by the city street department at such intervals of distance as may be
appropriate.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park, position or place, or to cause to be
parked, positioned or placed any vehicle within a marked tow-away zone during
the effective time thereof. Any such licensed or unlicensed vehicle found
parked, positioned or placed within the limits of such temporary tow-away zone
during the effective time period of same may be towed and removed therefrom.
   (D)   Any vehicle which is towed in accordance with this section may be
recovered and redeemed by paying any and all fees or expenses incurred by
reason for its removal from the temporary tow-away zone.
   (E)   Any fines collected for violations of this section shall be deposited
to the City of Greensburg General Fund
(Ord. 1995-28, passed 1-2-96; Am. Ord. 1996-18, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 2011-
7, passed 4-4-11)
§ 72.11 RESTRICTIONS FOR PARKING IN HANDICAPPED SPACE.
   Any person who parks a motor vehicle in a space reserved for the physically
handicapped without a handicapped parking permit, disabled veterans
registration plate or handicapped registration plate or decal commits a parking
violation under this traffic code.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 3-3-97)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.12 EXCESS OF VIOLATIONS; TOWING.
   In the event the owner or operator of a vehicle shall receive in excess of
five unpaid parking violations, within this chapter, the vehicle may be towed
away or immobilized by employees of the city or any other person or firm that
the city may appoint or hire. The owner or operator of the vehicle can obtain
possession of the vehicle by paying the penalty, as assessed pursuant to §
72.99, for each traffic violation that had been given to such owner or
operator, plus an amount equal to the cost of towing away such vehicle in the
event the vehicle is towed away.
(Ord. 1978-7, passed 4-17-78; Am. Ord. 1979-9, passed 9-4-79; Am. Ord. 1997-2,
passed 3-3-97)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Violation of §§
72.01 through
72.10 shall be considered a Class D violation of the City of Greensburg Code of
Ordinances, with a fine of $25.
('76 Code, § 15-48) (Ord. passed 6-22-39; Am. Ord. 1997-2, passed 3-3-97; Am.
Ord. 1999-10, passed 9-7-99; Am. Ord. 2005-3, passed 5-2-05; Am. Ord. 2024-11,
passed 7-9-24)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
72.11, providing for restrictions for parking in handicapped space, or any
person who aids, abets or assists therein, shall, on conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine of any amount not exceeding $50 for each offense or
violation. (Ord. 1987-3, passed 3-2-87; Am. Ord. 1997-2, passed 3-3- 97; Am.
Ord. 1999-10, passed 9-7-99; Am. Ord. 2005-3, passed 5-2-05)
   (C)   In addition to any fine assessed under this section, any person who
shall violate a section of this chapter that results in the vehicle being towed
shall result in the owner or operator of the vehicle being required to pay the
amount equal to the cost of towing such vehicle. (Ord. 1975-11, passed 8-4-75;
Am. Ord. 1997-2, passed 3-3-97; Am. Ord. 2005-3, passed 5-2-05)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Riding on bicycles
   
73.02   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.03   Crossing streets
   
73.04   Classification of violations
Statutory reference:
   Regulating the operation of bicycles and requiring the registration and
licensing of same, see IC 9-21-11
§ 73.01 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride on any bicycle
propelled by human power, or on any bicycle propelled by a motor or on any
motorcycle other than on a seat permanently attached to such vehicle.
('76 Code, § 15-22) (Ord. 1969-23, passed 1-5-70)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.02 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any street or alley riding a bicycle
or any other vehicle to cling to or to attach himself or his vehicle to any
moving vehicle.
('76 Code, § 15-23) (Ord. 1969-23, passed 1-5-70)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.03 CROSSING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster,
skates, sled, or other vehicle, toy, or otherwise, to cross any street except
at intersections or at a crosswalk.
('76 Code, § 15-24) (Ord. 1969-23, passed 1-5-70)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.04 CLASSIFICATION OF VIOLATIONS.
   The violation of this Chapter shall be classified as Class D violations in
§ 73.01, Riding on Bicycles;
§ 73.02, Clinging to Vehicles; and
§ 73.03, Crossing Streets, with a fine of $10 for each violation. When a
citation is issued by the City of Greensburg with the class of violation noted,
the fine applicable to the violation shall be paid within ten days to the City
of Greensburg through the Office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. If a fine is not
paid to the city and it becomes necessary for the city to file a legal cause of
action to recover the fine, the city shall then be permitted to recover any
reasonable and necessary legal expenses associated with the cause of action.
(Ord. 1999-10, passed 9-7-99)
CHAPTER 74: RAILROADS
Section
   
74.01   Speed restricted
   
74.02   Blocking streets
   
74.03   Yielding to emergency vehicles
   
74.04   Classification of violations
§ 74.01 SPEED RESTRICTED.
   No person owning, leasing or operating railroads within the corporate limits
of the city shall operate any engine, freight, or passenger cars, loaded or
otherwise, at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions and having regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing.
In no event shall the speed of any such engines, cars and trains be operated
within the corporate limits at a speed in excess of 30 miles per hour.
('76 Code, § 21-1) (Ord. 1964-9, passed 10-5-64)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.02 BLOCKING STREETS.
   No person owning, leasing, or operating railroads within the limits of the
city shall allow any engine, freight, or passenger cars, loaded or otherwise,
moving or standing, to block any street crossing within the city for a longer
time than ten minutes.
('76 Code, § 21-2) (Ord. 1964-9, passed 10-5-64)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.03 YIELDING TO EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Every person owning, leasing, or operating railroads within the corporate
limits of the city shall when crossing any street or thoroughfare within the
city give preference to all fire trucks, or other fire-fighting vehicles and
ambulances on emergency runs and calls; and shall break all trains, moving or
standing, over or on such crossings in order to allow such emergency vehicles
to cross at such crossings.
('76 Code, § 21-3) (Ord. 1964-9, passed 10-5-64)
§ 74.04 CLASSIFICATION OF VIOLATIONS.
   Section
74.02, Blocking Streets, shall be classified as a Class C violation, with a
fine of $25 for each violation; and §
74.03, Yielding to Emergency Vehicle, shall be classified as a Class A
violation, with a fine of $100 for each violation.
(Ord. 1999-10, passed 9-7-99)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Through streets
   
III.   Angle and center parking
   
IV.   One-way streets and alleys
   
V.   Stop intersections
   
VI.   No parking
   
VII.   Yield intersections
   
VIII.   Through trucks prohibited
   
IX.   Snow emergency routes
SCHEDULE I: SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit for the following streets shall be as follows:
STREET BETWEEN M.P.H. ORD. NO.
STREET                BETWEEN               M.P.H.             ORD. NO.
Baili Ct.             In Sycamore Run       20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
Baili Dr.             In Sycamore Run       20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
Barachel Lane                              30                 1989-11
Big Blue Avenue                            20                 2006-20
Cedar Ct.                                  30                 1994-6
Commerce Park         All streets           30                 1990-1
Subdivision
County Rd. 150        Moscow Rd. and North  30                 1989-11
                      Carver St.
County Rd. N.E. 80    From St. Rd. 46 to
along the Odd Fellows East Central Ave.     30                 1989-11
Park
Creekside Circle      In Mill Ridge Estates 20                 1997-20
                      Subdivision
Cross Bones Dr.                            20                 2006-20
E. Israel St.         From S. Shane to S.   20                 2003-19
                      Christy Rd.
E. Lakeshore Dr.      From S. Michigan Ave. 20                 2003-19
                      to S. Maureen Rd.
E. Maureen Rd.        From S. Maureen Rd.   20                 2003-19
                      to dead end
E. Michael Ct.        From S. Tara to dead  20                 2003-19
                      end
E. Skyline Dr.        From S. Michigan Ave. 20                 2003-19
                      to S. Maureen Rd.
E. Tara Road          From S. Michigan Ave. 20                 2003-19
                      to S. Tara Rd.
Freeland Rd.                               30                 1989-11
Greenview Dr.         From Lincoln St. to   20                 1999-13
                      dead end.
Hamilton Dr.                               30                 1994-6
Hamilton Subdivision  All streets           30                 1994-6
Hessler Blvd.         In Rolling Meadow     20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
Hunters Dr.           In Mill Ridge Estates 20                 1997-20
                      Subdivision
Kaleigh Lane          In Rolling Meadow     20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
Kole Dr.              In Rolling Meadow     20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
Lehman Way East Dr.                        20                 2006-20
Lehman Way West Dr.                        20                 2006-20
Macy Lane             From Freeland Road to 20                 1999-13
                      dead end.
Matthew Dr.           In Sycamore Bend      20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
Memorial Way          Michigan Ave. and     35                 2015-17
                      Veterans Way
Meyer Lane            In Rolling Meadow     20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
Mill Creek Rd.        In Mill Ridge Estates 20                 1997-20
                      Subdivision
Mill Crossing Dr.     In Mill Ridge Estates 20                 1997-20
                      Subdivision
Millhausen Rd. (also  From St. Rd. 421
known as County Rd.   South to 257 ft.      30                 1989-11
60E)                  south of Beechwood
                      Rd.
Millhausen Rd. (North To city limits        30                 1997-20
and southbound)
                      From 600 feet south
Millhousen Rd.        of Hunter Robbins Way 20 when children   2016-31
                      to 800 feet north of  present
                      Hunter Robbins Way
Montgomery Rd.                             30                 1989-11
Moscow Rd.            From U.S. 421 to      30                 1989-11; 2001-25
                      County Rd. 150 North
N. Lincoln St.        From Main St. to SR 3 30                 1996-8
                      - Bypass
N. Lincoln St.        From Washington to    20 when lights are 1996-8
(school zone)         Walnut                flashing
                      1,800 feet north of
N. Michigan Ave       the I-74 interchange  45                 2009-1
                      to County Road 300N
Nieman Dr.            In Westridge          20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
Oakmond Ave.                               20                 2001-25
Park Rd. (505)     To 200 West, then 200 30                 1989-11
                      West to St. Rd. 46
Rebecca Parkway       In Westridge          20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
S. Ireland St.        From Park Road to Lou 30                 1998-1
                      Lane
S. Christy Rd.        From E. Tara Rd. to   20                 2003-19
                      dead end
S. Ireland St.        From McKee St. to     20 when children   2005-21
                      Davis St./Park Rd.    present
S. Lynn Rd.           From E. Lakeshore to  20                 2003-19
                      dead end
S. Maureen Rd.        From dead end to E.   20                 2003-19
                      Maureen
S. Shane St.          From E. Tara Rd. to   20                 2003-19
                      dead end
S. Tara Road          From E. Tara Rd. to   20                 2003-19
                      dead end
Tarkington Dr.        In Westridge          20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
Trimble St.           In Rolling Meadow     20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
Vandalia Rd.          From US 421 to bridge 30                 2001-25
                      From North Michigan
                      Ave. to County Road
Vandalia Road         250W (just extending  30                 2009-1
                      the current 30 M.P.H.
                      to 250W)
                      Michigan Ave. and
Vandalia Rd.          west corporation      45                 2015-17
                      limits
Veterans Way          Smith Rd. and         35                 2015-17
                      Memorial Way
Wedgewood Avenue      In Westridge          20                 2001-25
                      Subdivision
                      From County Road 250
West Vandalia Road    West to city limits   45                 2009-1
                      (just annexed)
Wheeler Ct.           Greenview Dr. to dead 20                 1999-13
                      end.
Woodside Dr.          In Mill Ridge Estates 20                 1997-20
                      Subdivision
 
   (B)   Any person convicted for the violation of any of the provisions of
this section shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500.
   (C)   Any person that violates any of the provisions of Ordinance 2003-19
shall commit a Class C violation and be fined not more than $25 for each
offense or violation.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 4-4-88; Am. Ord. 1994-6, passed 5-2-94; Am. Ord. 1996-8,
passed 6-3-96; Am. Ord. 1997-20, passed 1-5-98; Am. Ord. 1998-1, passed 1-5-98;
Am. Ord. 1999-13, passed 11-1-99; Am. Ord. 2001-25, passed 12-4-01; Am. Ord.
2003-19, passed 11-3-03; Am. Ord. 2005-21, passed 11-7-05; Am. Ord. 2006-20,
passed 8-7-06; Am. Ord. 2009-1, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 2015-17, passed 12-7-
15; Am. Ord. 2016-31, passed 1-3-17)
SCHEDULE II: THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets shall be designated as through streets in the
city, and such streets shall have preference over intersecting streets:
STREET BETWEEN ORD. NO.
STREET         BETWEEN                                    ORD. NO.
Broadway St.   Washington St. and First St.
Central Ave.   Lincoln St. and Franklin St.
First St.      Lincoln St. and North Michigan Ave.
Jackson St.    Washington St. and North Michigan Ave.
Main St.       Lincoln St. to the east corporation limits
Michigan Ave.  Ireland St. and Jackson St.
North St.      Lincoln St. and Franklin St.
Washington St. Lincoln St. and Franklin St.
Washington St. Broadway St. and West St.
West St.       Main St. and North Michigan Ave.
 
   (B)   The streets designated in division (A) above as through streets shall
be marked with a stop sign located as near as practicable at the property line
of the highway at the entrance to which the stop must be made, or at the
nearest line of the crosswalk thereat, or, if none, at the nearest line of the
roadway.
('76 Code, § 15-28) (Ord. passed 6-22-39)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III: ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   The following streets shall be designated to permit angle and center parking
as indicated:
 
STREET         DESCRIPTION                           ORD. NO.
               From Main St. to Washington St.,
Broadway       center (two lanes) and angle
               parking adjacent to curb.
               From Washington St. to Central
Broadway       Ave., angle parking adjacent
               to curbs
               From Main St. to McKee St.,
East St.       angle parking on the west
               side of the street only
               From Main St. to Washington St.
Franklin St.   center (one lane) and angle
               parking adjacent to curbs
               From Broadway to Franklin St.,
Main St.       angle parking only on the north
               side of such street adjacent to curb
               From Broadway to Franklin St., center
Washington St. (one lane) and angle parking adjacent
               to curbs
 
('76 Code, § l5-42) (Ord. passed 9-l-30; Am. Ord. passed 6-22-39; Am. Ord.
2018-2, passed 1-2-18)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The following streets and alleys and portions thereof are declared to
be one-way streets and alleys, the traffic to move thereon in the direction
indicated:
STREET LOCATION DIRECTION ORD. NO.
STREET            LOCATION                                  DIRECTION  ORD. NO.
                  In J.G. Monfort's First Addition, between
Alley             the east/west alley between North Ireland North      1985-17
                  St. and North Monfort St. on the south,
                  and West Washington St. on the north
                  Between lots 44, 46 and 47 on Between
Alley             lots 44, 46 and 47 on the east, and lots  Northbound 1990-4
                  43 and 48 on the west in Block 6 from
                  Main Street to Washington St.
                  Between lots 52, 53, and 55 on the east
Alley             and lots 51 and 56 on the west in Block 7 Northbound 1990-4
                  from Washington St. to North St.
                  Between lot 53 on the north and lots 54
Alley             and 55 on the south in Block 7 to         Eastbound  1990-4
                  Broadway
                  Between lots 2, 4, and 5 on the north and
Alley             lots 6, 7, 8, and 1 on the south in Block Eastbound  1990-4
                  1 from Franklin St. to East St.
                  Between lots 27, 28, 29 and 30 on the
Alley             north and lots 26 and 31 on the south in  Eastbound  1990-4
                  Block 4 from Broadway to Franklin St.
Central St.       From Davidson to Michigan                 Westbound  1987-8
                  Through the city public parking lot on
Driveway          lots 26 and 31 in Block 4 from Franklin   Westbound  1990-4
                  St. to Broadway
Hendricks St.     From Broadway to Lincoln                  Eastbound  1987-8
Jackson St.       From North Michigan Ave. to West Central  Northbound 1994-32
                  Ave.
McKee St.         From Monfort to Broadway                  Eastbound  1987-8
North St.         From Franklin to Davidson                 Eastbound  1987-8
W. North St.      From North Ireland to West Street                   1996-13
North East        From E. North to East McKee               Southbound 1987-8
North Monfort St. From N. Michigan Avenue to W. Walnut      Northbound 2010-4
                  Street
E. Railroad St.   From S. Franklin to S. Broadway           Eastbound  2000-17
Sheridan St.      From Ireland to Broadway                  Eastbound  1987-8
Walnut St.        From Broadway to Ireland                  Westbound  1987-8
 
   (B)   Any person convicted for the violation of any of the provisions of
this section shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. 1987-8, passed 7-6-87; Am. Ord. 1990-4, passed 4-2-90; Am. Ord. 1994-32,
passed 11-7-94; Am. Ord. 1996-13, passed 10-7-96; Am. Ord. 2000-17, passed 10-
2-00)
SCHEDULE V: STOP INTERSECTIONS.
In the interest of safety to all persons, including children and school
children, stop signs are set upon the following streets and it shall be
unlawful for any person to fail to stop as provided by state law at such signs.
   (A)   (1)   Four-way stops. Four-way stops are mandatory at the following
intersections:
INTERSECTION ORD. NO.
INTERSECTION                                                          ORD. NO.
North Anderson and West Fourth                                        1987-8
Brandt and Eighth                                                     1987-8
Brandt and Ninth                                                      1987-8
North Broadway and Washington                                         1987-8
North Broadway and North                                              1987-8
North Broadway and First                                              1987-8
North Broadway and Fourth                                             1987-8
South Broadway and McKee                                              1987-8
North Carver and West Hendricks                                       1987-8
North Carver and West Fourth                                          1987-8
North Carver and West North                                           1993-19
North Carver (north and southbound) at 6th St. (east and westbound)   1996-8
North Davisson and East Washington                                    1987-8
North Davisson and East North                                         1987-8
North East and East Fifth                                             1987-8
South East and East McKee                                             1987-8
North Franklin and East Central                                       1991-10
North Franklin and East Walnut                                        1991-10
North Franklin and East North                                         1987-8
South Franklin and East McKee                                         1987-8
North Ireland St. and Fourth St.                                      2020-10
South Ireland and Davis and Park Rd.                                  1987-8
Jackson and West North                                                1987-8
North Monfort (northbound and southbound)                             2008-25
South Monfort and Forsythe                                            1987-8
East North and North Lanthrop                                         1991-10
North Park and West Fourth                                            1987-8
East Washington Street (east and southbound) at North Lathrop Street  2001-4
(north and southbound)
Washington Street and West Street                                     1986-3
West and West Hendricks                                               1987-8
West and West Sheridan                                                1987-8
North East and East Walnut                                            1987-8
West Third (eastbound and westbound)                                  2008-25
Tenth Street and Brandt Street                                        1995-10
 
      (2)   Four-way stops using automatic traffic signals shall be mandatory
at the following intersections.
 
INTERSECTION                     ORD. NO.
North Lincoln and East Barachel  1991-10
North Lincoln and East First     1991-10
North Lincoln at Montgomery Road 2006-31
North Lincoln and Tenth          1991-10
 
   (B)   Two-way stops. Two-way stops are mandatory at the following
intersections:
STREET INTERSECTION STREET ORD. NO.
STREET                     INTERSECTION STREET      ORD. NO.
Amrhein Dr.                West Washington          1987-8
Anderson St.               Washington St.           2021-26
North Anderson             West Washington          1987-8
North Anderson             West North               1987-8
North Anderson             West Eleventh            1994-2
(northbound)
North Anderson             West First               1987-8
North Anderson             West Fourth              1987-8
Angie (northbound)         Troy                     1991-14
Barachel                   North Broadway           1987-8
East Barachel (eastbound)  North Montgomery Rd.     1990-1; 1999-21
Barbara Blvd. (northbound) Troy                     1992-20
Beechwood Ln.              Millhousen Rd.           1987-8
Brandt                     Eighth                   1987-8
Brandt                     Ninth                    1987-8
Brandt                     Eleventh                 1987-8
North Broadway             Washington               1987-8
North Broadway             North                    1987-8
North Broadway             First                    1987-8
North Broadway             Fourth                   1987-8
South Broadway             McKee                    1987-8
Bryant                     South Broadway           1987-8
Bryant                     South Monfort            1987-8
Bryant                     South Ireland            1987-8
North Carver               West Washington          1987-8
North Carver               West North               1987-8
North Carver               West Hendricks           1987-8
Cedar Ct.                  Montgomery Rd.           1994-2
Central (east & westbound) Lincoln                  1991-10
East Central Ave.          North Broadway           1987-8
East Central Ave.          North Franklin           1987-8
East Central Ave.          Stewart                  1987-8
East Central Ave.          North Davisson           1987-8
West Central Ave.          North Carver             1987-8
West Central Ave.          North Ireland            1987-8
West Central Ave.          North Michigan           1987-8
Christy (southbound)       Tara                     1991-26
Davis                      South Ireland            1987-8
North Davisson             East Washington          1987-8
North Davisson             East North               1987-8
North Davisson             East Central Ave.        1987-8
North Davisson             Montgomery Rd.           1987-8
East St.                   Fourth St.               2021-26
North East                 East Washington          1987-8
North East                 East North               1987-8
North East                 East Central Ave.        1987-8
North East                 East Walnut              1987-8
North East                 East First               1987-8
North East                 East Fourth              1987-8
North East                 East Fifth               1987-8
North East                 Barachel                 1987-8
North East                 East Tenth               1987-8
South East                 East McKee               1987-8
Edward Dr.                 North Davisson           1987-8
Eighth                     Moscow Rd.               1987-8
Eighth                     Brandt                   1987-8
Eleventh                   Moscow Rd.               1987-8
Eleventh                   North Carver             1987-8
West Eleventh (westbound)  North Carver             1994-2
Erdman Dr.                 Millhousen Rd.           1987-8
Fifth (east & westbound)   Lincoln                  1991-10
Fifth                      North Monfort            1987-8
East Fifth                 North Broadway           1987-8
East Fifth                 North East               1987-8
West Fifth                 North Carver             1987-8
West Fifth                 North Anderson           1987-8
West Fifth                 North Broadway           1987-8
East First                 North Broadway           1987-8
West First                 North Broadway           1987-8
East Fleetwood Dr.         Montgomery Rd.           1994-37
North Fleetwood Dr.        Freeland Rd.             1994-37
Floral (east & westbound)  Lincoln                  1991-10
Floral Ct.                 North Lincoln St.        2015-2
Forsythe                   South Broadway           1987-8
Forsythe                   South Monfort            1987-8
Forsythe                   South Ireland            1987-8
Fourth (east & westbound)  Lincoln                  1991-10
East Fourth                North Broadway           1987-8
East Fourth                North East               1987-8
West Fourth                North Park               1987-8
West Fourth                North Carver             1987-8
West Fourth                North Anderson           1987-8
West Fourth                North Broadway           1987-8
North Franklin             East Washington          1987-8
North Franklin             East North               1987-8
North Franklin             East First               1987-8
North Franklin             East Tenth               1987-8
North Franklin (northbound Barachel Lane         1996-13
and southbound)
South Franklin             East McKee               1987-8
East Freeland              Montgomery               1990-1
Greenview (east &          Lincoln                  1991-10
westbound)
Hamilton Dr.               Montgomery Rd.           1994-2
Hendricks (east &          Lincoln                  1991-10
westbound)
East Hendricks             North Broadway           1987-8
East Hendricks             North East               1987-8
East Hendricks             North Franklin           1987-8
East Hendricks             North Warren             1987-8
East Hendricks             North Davidson           1987-8
Fifteenth St.              Brandt St.               1994-37
Fourteenth St.             North Carver             1994-37
West Hendricks             North Carver             1987-8
West Hendricks             West                     1987-8
Hillside Dr.               Millhousen Rd.           1987-8
Indiana Ave.               West Walnut              1987-8
Indiana Ave.               West Sheridan            1987-8
Israel (eastbound)         Christy                  1991-26
Israel (westbound)         Shane                    1991-26
North Ireland              West First               1987-8
South Ireland              Davis                    1987-8
Jackson                    West North               1987-8
Jackson                    West Central Ave.        1987-8
Jackson                    West Washington          1987-8
Jordan Dr.                 Kieran Dr.               1994-2; (eastbound)1995-28
Jorim Dr.                  North Broadway           1987-8
Jorim Dr.                  North East               1987-8
Kessing St.                Barachel Ln.             1987-8
Kessing St. (east &        1991-10                   
Lincoln                    westbound)
Kieran Dr.                 Park Rd.                 1994-2; (southbound)1995-28
Lake Shore Dr.             Maureen Rd.              1987-8
Lathrop                    East Washington          1987-8
Lathrop                    East North               1987-8
Lathrop                    East Central Ave.        1987-8
Nicklas Ct.                Jordan Dr.               1995-28 (eastbound)
North Lathrop              Montgomery Rd.           1994-2 (southbound)
North Lathrop              East North               1990-1
Lori (northbound)          Troy                     1991-14
Lori (southbound)          Richards                 1991-14
Lou Lane                   South Ireland            1994-2
Macy Ln.                   Greenview Dr.            2021-26
Macy Ln.                   Freeland Rd.             1987-8
Macy Ln. (northbound and                           1996-13
southbound)
Maple Dr.                  Millhousen Rd.           1987-8
Maple St.                  West Hendricks           1987-8
Maple St.                  West Walnut              1987-8
Maple St.                  West Sheridan            1987-8
McKee (eastbound)          South Monfort            1991-14
East McKee                 South Broadway           1987-8
East McKee                 South Franklin           1987-8
East McKee                 South East               1987-8
West McKee                 South Broadway           1987-8
Minary (east & westbound)  Lincoln                  1991-10
Mobley Dr.                 South Vine               1987-8
Mobley Dr.                 South Wilder             1987-8
Monfort St.                Washington St.           2021-26
North Monfort              West Washington          1987-8
North Monfort              West North               1987-8
North Monfort              West Sheridan            1987-8
North Monfort              West First               1987-8
North Monfort              West Second              1987-8
South Monfort              Forsythe                 1987-8
South Monfort              South Broadway           1987-8
Montgomery (east &         Lincoln                  1991-10
westbound)
Montgomery Rd.             North Lincoln St.        2015-2
North Montgomery           East Barachel            1999-21
(southbound)
Moscow Rd.                 Veterans Way             2021-26
Nicklas Dr.                Jordan Dr.               1994-2
Nightingale                East Barachel            1987-8
Nightingale                Greenview Dr.            1987-8
Ninth                      Moscow Rd.               1987-8
Ninth                      Brandt                   1987-8
Ninth                      Short Dr.                1987-8
Ninth                      North Carver             1987-8
North (east & westbound)   Lincoln                  1991-10
East North                 North Broadway           1987-8
East North                 North Franklin           1987-8
East North                 Stewart                  1987-8
East North                 North Davisson           1987-8
West North                 North Ireland            1987-8
West North                 Jackson                  1987-8
West North                 North Broadway           1987-8
Ohio                       West Hendricks           1987-8
Ohio                       West Sheridan            1987-8
North Park                 West Fourth              1987-8
North Park                 West Sixth               1987-8
North Park                 North Carver             1987-8
Railroad St. (eastbound)   South East Street        1996-13
Railroad St.(eastbound &   S. Franklin Street       1996-13
westbound)
Railroad St. (eastbound &  S. Broadway Street       1996-13
westbound)
Railroad St. (westbound)   S. Monfort Street        1996-13
Richards St./ Lisa Ln.     Barbara Blvd.            2021-26
Richards (eastbound)       North Angie              1991-10
Ryle Center                Park Rd.                 1987-8
Ryle Dr.                   Ryle Center              1987-8
Scoby                      South Broadway           1987-8
Scoby                      South Monfort            1987-8
Scoby                      South Ireland            1987-8
East Second                North East               1987-8
West Second                North Park               1987-8
West Second                North Carver             1987-8
West Second                North Anderson           1987-8
West Second                North Ireland            1987-8
West Second                North Broadway           1987-8
Seventh                    Moscow Rd.               1987-8
Shane St.                  Tara Rd.                 1987-8
West Sheridan              West                     1987-8
West Sheridan              North Carver             1987-8
West Sheridan              North Ireland            1987-8
West Sheridan              North Monfort            1987-8
West Sheridan              North Broadway           1987-8
Short Dr.                  Ninth                    1987-8
Short St.                  W. 14th St.              1994-37
Short St.                  W. 15th St.              1994-37
Sixth St.                  North Park               1987-8
Sixth St.                  North Carver             1987-8
Sixth                      North Anderson           1987-8
Skaggs Ct.                 North Fleetwood Dr.      1994-37
Skyline Dr.                Maureen Rd.              1987-8
Small road running north &
south between North                                1991-10
Lincoln Street and
Barachel Lane
Stewart                    East Washington          1987-8
Stewart                    East North               1987-8
Stewart                    East Central Ave.        1987-8
Tara Rd.                   Maureen Rd.              1987-8
East Tenth                 North Broadway           1987-8
West Tenth                 Moscow Rd.               1987-8
West Tenth                 North Carver             1987-8
East Third                 North Broadway           1987-8
West Third                 North Park               1987-8
West Third                 North Carver             1987-8
West Third                 North Anderson           1987-8
West Third                 North Ireland            1987-8
West Third                 North Monfort            1987-8
West Third                 North Broadway           1987-8
Thomas                     South Monfort            1987-8
Thomas                     South Ireland            1987-8
                           Rail crossing in the 900
West Vandalia Rd.          block of West Washington 2008-05-10
                           St.
Walnut (east & westbound)  Lincoln                  1991-10
East Walnut                North Broadway           1987-8
West Walnut                West                     1987-8
West Walnut                North Carver             1987-8
West Walnut                North Ireland            1987-8
North Warren               East Washington          1987-8
North Warren               East North               1987-8
North Warren               East Central Ave.        1987-8
Washington (east &         Lincoln                  1991-10
westbound)
East Washington            North Broadway           1987-8
East Washington            North Franklin           1987-8
East Washington            Davisson                 1987-8
West Washington            North Ireland            1987-8
West Washington            North Monfort            1987-8
West Washington            North Broadway           1987-8
                           Rail crossing at
West Washington            approximately 2100 West  2008-05-10
                           Vandalia Road
West                       West Hendricks           1987-8
West                       West Sheridan            1987-8
Wilder                     East Washington          1987-8
Wilder                     East North               1987-8
Wilder                     East Central             1987-8
Wilder                     East Hendricks           1987-8
Wilson                     South Broadway           1987-8
Wilson                     South Monfort            1987-8
Wilson                     South Ireland            1987-8
 
   (C)   Three-way stops are mandatory at the following intersections:
 
STREET                         INTERSECTION STREET     ORD. NO.
East Freeland Rd. (northbound) North Montgomery        2002-5
Eleventh St.                   Davidson St.            3-6-95
North Broadway Street          East Walnut (westbound) 1992-3
South Maureen Rd.              East Israel             1992-26
 
   (D)   One-way stops are mandatory at the following intersections.
STREET DIRECTION INTERSECTION STREET ORD. NO.
STREET                        DIRECTION INTERSECTION STREET            ORD. NO.
Baili Dr.                     South     Elmwood Ct.                    2001-25
Big Blue Dr.                  North     Montgomery Rd.                 2006-20
Brandt St.                             Veterans Way                   2015-15
Carver St.                             Veterans Way                   2015-15
County Road 150               North     Brandt St.                     2015-15
Creekside Circle              East      Mill Creek Rd.                 1997-20
Cross Bones Dr.               South     Central Ave.                   2006-20
Daniel Dr.                             Memorial Way                   2015-15
Hessler Blvd.                          U.S. 421                       2001-25
Hessler Blvd.                          Vandaila Rd.                   2001-25
Hunters Dr.                   North     Mill Creek Rd.                 1997-20
Lehman Way East Dr.           East      County Road NE 80              2006-20
Lehman Way East Dr.           South     Lehman Way West Dr.            2006-20
Lehman Way West Dr.           West      Big Blue Dr.                   2006-20
Mill Creek Rd. (north & south East      Millhousen Rd.                 1997-20
branch)
Mill Crossing Dr.             North     Mill Creek Rd.                 1997-20
Mill Crossing Dr.             South     Mill Creek Rd.                 1997-20
Moscow Rd.                             U.S. 421                       2001-25
North Liberty Circle Dr.      East      West Vandalia Rd.              2003-1
North Liberty Circle Dr.      West      West Vandalia Rd.              2003-1
Rebecca Parkway                        Moscow Rd.                     2001-25
Smith Rd.                              Veterans Way                   2015-15
South Ridge Dr.               East      Millhousen Rd.                 1997-20
Tarkington Dr.                         At Moscow Rd.                  2001-25
Tarkington Dr.                         At Rebecca Parkway             2001-25
Vandaila Rd.                           At U.S. 421                    2001-25
Warren St.                    Northeast Davidson St.                   2020-11
W. County Road 100 N.         West      W. County Road 240 N.W. and N. 2009-15
                                        County Road 250 W.
Westridge Pkwy.                        Daniel Dr.                     2015-15
Woodside Dr.                  East      Mill Creek Rd.                 1997-20
 
   (E)   Penalty.Any person convicted for the violation of any of the
provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. 1987-8, passed 7-6-87; Am. Ord. 1991-10, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 1991-14,
passed 9-3-91; Am. Ord. 1991-26, passed 12-2-91; Am. Ord. 1992-3, passed 4-6-
92; Am. Ord. 1992-20, passed 2-1-93; Am. Ord. 1993-19, passed 9-7-93; Am. Ord.
1994-2, passed 3-7-94; Am. Ord. 1994-37, passed 12-5-94; Am. Ord. 1995-28,
passed 1-2-96; Am. Ord. 1996-13, passed 10-7-96; Am. Ord. 1997-20, passed 1-5-
98; Am. Ord. 1999-13, passed 11-1-99; Am. Ord. 1999-21, passed 1-4-00; Am. Ord.
2000-17, passed 10-2-00; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 3-6-01; Am. Ord. 2001-25,
passed 12-4-01; Am. Ord. 2002-5, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-3-03;
Am. Ord. 2006-20, passed 8-7-06; Am. Ord. 2006-31, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord.
2008-05-10, passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 2008-25, passed 10-6-08; Am. Ord. 2015-2,
passed 2-2-15; Am. Ord. 2015-15, passed 12-7-15; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 5-2-
16; Am. Ord. 2020-10, passed 9-8-20; Am. Ord. 2020-11, passed 9-8-20; Am. Ord.
2021-26, passed 1-11-22)
SCHEDULE VI: NO PARKING.
   (A)   The following streets are designated as no parking areas.
STREET LOCATION ORD. NO.
STREET     LOCATION                                                                     ORD.
                                                                                        NO.
Brandt
Street     From the south curb line of Fifteenth Street to the    south curb line of 2020-
(Both      Fourteenth Street                                                            24
sides)
Broadway   From North Street to Railroad Street                                         1995-
Street                                                                                  24
Central    From the east curb line ofLincoln Street to 120 feet east of said east curb  2019-
Ave.       land                                                                         25
Dove Court The street’s entire length                                                 2005-
                                                                                        16
East and
West McKee From South Monfort Street                                                    1998-
Street     to South Michigan Ave.                                                       1
(South
side)
East
Central                                                                                 1998-
Ave.       From Stewart Street to Lathrop Street                                        1
(South
side)
East
Central                                                                                 1998-
Ave.       From Davidson Street to Warren Street                                        1
(North
side)
East
Central                                                                                 1998-
Ave.       From Lathrop Street to Lincoln Street                                        1
(North
side)
East
Central                                                                                 1998-
Ave.       From Steward Street to Lathrop Street                                        1
(South
side)
East First
Street     From North Broadway Street to Lincoln Street                                 1998-
(South                                                                                  1
side)
East First
Street     From Broadway Street to North Michigan Ave.                                  1998-
(South                                                                                  1
side)
East First
Street     From First Street to North Michigan Ave.                                     1998-
(West                                                                                   1
side)
East
Fourth                                                                                  1998-
Street     From North Lincoln Street to North East Street                               1
(North and
south)
East
Hendricks                                                                               1998-
Street     From Lincoln Street to North Broadway Street                                 1
(North
side)
East North
Street     From Lathrop Street to Stewart Street                                        1998-
(East                                                                                   1
side)
East North
Street     From Broadway Street to North Franklin Street                                1998-
(South                                                                                  1
side)
East
Walnut                                                                                  1998-
Street     From Lincoln Street to North Franklin Street                                 1
(South
side)
East
Walnut                                                                                  1998-
Street     From North Broadway Street to North Franklin Street                          1
(South
side)
First
Street     From the east curb line of Ireland Street to 120 feet east of said east curb 2016-
(North     line                                                                         7
side)
First
Street     From the west curb line of Ireland Street to 170 feet west of said west curb 2016-
(North     line                                                                         7
side)
Fourteenth
Street     From the west curb of Brandt Street to Carver Street                         2020-
(Both                                                                                   24
sides)
Franklin   From North Street to Railroad Street                                         1995-
Street                                                                                  24
Gaston
Drive      From the west curb line of Carver Street to the westerly terminus of Gaston  2020-
(Both      Drive                                                                        25
sides)
Main       From Monfort Street to South Michigan Ave.                                   1995-
Street                                                                                  24
North East
Street     From East Central Ave. to First Street                                       1998-
(East                                                                                   1
side)
North East
Street     From East Central Ave. to East Main Street                                   1998-
(West                                                                                   1
side)
North
Ireland                                                                                 1998-
Street     From Michigan Ave. to West Second Street                                     1
(East
side)
North      From East Main Street to                                                     1991-
Lincoln    State Road 3 Bypass                                                          10
North
Lincoln
Street     From Main Street to State Road 3 Bypass                                      1998-
(East and                                                                               1
west
sides)
North                                                                                   1999-
Maple      At dead end                                                                  13
Street
North                                                                                   1998-
Michigan   From Ireland Street to West Central Ave.                                     1
Ave.
North
Michigan
Ave.       From North Ireland Street to SR 3 Bypass                                     1998-
(East and                                                                               1
west
sides)
North
Nieman Dr.                                                                              2024-
           From West Tarkington Drive to West Rebecca Parkway                           12
(West
side)
North
Oakmont                                                                                 2024-
Dr.        From West Tarkington Drive to West Rebecca Parkway                           12
(East
side)
North
Washington                                                                              1998-
Street     From North Monfort Street to North Ireland Street                            1
(North
side)
Oriole     The street’s entire length                                                 2005-
Court                                                                                   16
Robin      The street’s entire length                                                 2005-
Court                                                                                   16
South
Broadway                                                                                1998-
Street     From railroad tracks to South Ireland Street                                 1
(East
side)
South
Broadway                                                                                1998-
Street     From Forsythe Street to South Ireland Street                                 1
(West
side)
South East
Street     From East Main Street to West McKee Street                                   1998-
(East                                                                                   1
side)
South
Ireland                                                                                 1998-
Street     From Bryant Street to Forsythe Street                                        1
(East
side)
Stewart
Street     East North Street to East Central Avenue                                     1998-
(West                                                                                   1
side)
Washington From East Street to Jackson Street                                           1995-
Street                                                                                  24
West
Central                                                                                 1998-
Ave.       From Broadway to Michigan Ave.                                               1
(South
side)
West First
Street     From North Broadway Street to North Michigan Ave.                            1998-
(North                                                                                  1
side)
West Kole
Dr.        From North Kaleigh Ln. to North Hessler Blvd.                                2024-
(South                                                                                  12
side)
West McKee
Street     From South Broadway Street to South Michigan Ave.                            1998-
(North                                                                                  1
side)
West Meyer
Ln.        From North Kaleigh Ln. to North Hessler Blvd.                                2024-
(North                                                                                  12
side)
West Ninth                                                                              1993-
(South     Approximately 175 feet west from North Carver Street                         1
side)
West North
Street     From North Monfort Street to West Street                                     1998-
(South                                                                                  1
side)
West
Sheridan                                                                                1998-
Street     From North Ireland Street to North Broadway Street                           1
(South
side)
West
Trimble                                                                                 2024-
St.        From North Kaleigh Ln. to North Hessler Blvd.                                12
(South
side)
West
Walnut                                                                                  1998-
Street     From Monfort Street to school drive on west side of school building          1
(North
side)
West
Walnut                                                                                  1998-
Street     From North Broadway Street to North Monfort Street                           1
(South
side)
Wren Court The street’s entire length                                                 2005-
                                                                                        16
   (B)   There shall be no parking Fridays between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and
7:00 a.m. for the purpose of allowing the efficient and/or unobstructed
sweeping of streets and removal of snow on N. Broadway Street between E. Main
Street and E. Washington Street, E. Washington Street between N. Broadway
Street and N. Franklin Street, N. Franklin Street between E. Washington Street
and E. Main Street, and E. Main Street between N. Broadway Street and N.
Franklin Street; and penalties set forth in §
72.99 are effective.
   (C)   Any violation of Schedule VI, "No Parking," as contained in this
Schedule shall be considered a Class D violation of the Code of Ordinances of
the City of Greensburg, Indiana, with a fine of not more than $10 for each
violation. When a citation is issued by the City of Greensburg with a class of
violation noted the fine applicable to the violation shall be paid within ten
days to the City of Greensburg through the Office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
If a fine is not paid to the city and it becomes necessary for the city to file
a legal cause of action to recover the fine, the city shall then be permitted
to recover any reasonable and necessary legal expenses associated with the
cause of action. Any fines collected for violation shall be deposited in the
city General Fund.
(Ord. 1991-10, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 1993-1, passed 3-1-93; Am. Ord. 1995-24,
passed 10-2-95; Am. Ord. 1998-1, passed 1-5-98; Am. Ord. 1999-10, passed 9-7-
99; Am. Ord. 1999-13, passed 11-1-99; Am. Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-7-05; Am.
Ord. 2006-6, passed 6-5-06; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 5-2-16; Am. Ord. 2019-25,
passed 10-7-19; Am. Ord. 2020-24, passed 10-5-20; Am. Ord. 2020-25, passed 10-
5-20; Am. Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-10-24)
SCHEDULE VII: YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following intersections are designated as yield intersections.
 
STREET                                  INTERSECTION WITH POSTED YIELD SIGN
Cathy Court                             North Angie Drive (westbound)
Eastbound Barachel Lane                 Northbound Lincoln Street right turn
                                        onto Eastbound Barachel Lane
Richards Street                         North Angie Drive (westbound)
Roundabout at Veterans Way and Memorial Memorial Way
Way
Roundabout at Veterans Way and Memorial Veterans Way
Way
 
   (B)   Any person convicted for the violation of any of the provisions of
this section shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. 1991-10, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 2015-16, passed 12-7-15; Am. Ord. 2023-
3, passed 2-14-23)
SCHEDULE VIII: THROUGH TRUCKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Trucks are prohibited on the following streets.
STREET LOCATION ORD. NO.
STREET                  LOCATION                               ORD. NO.
Access Road off Lincoln From E. Barachel Ln. to E. Kessing Dr. 1998-1
E. Fourth St.           From N. Lincoln St. to N. Broadway St. 1998-1
E. Fifth St.            From N. Lincoln St. to N. Broadway St. 1998-1
Greenview Dr.           From Lincoln St. to dead end.          1999-13
Hessler Blvd.           From U.S. 421 to Vandalia Rd.          2001-25
Kessing Dr.             From Barachel Lane to Lincoln St.      1999-13
Macy Lane               From Freeland Road to dead end.        1999-13
Montgomery Rd.          From N. Lincoln St. to E. Barachel Ln. 1998-1
Nightingale Dr.                                               1991-10
North Broadway St.      From 5th St. to Main St.               1998-1
North Davidson St.      From E. Main St. to Montgomery Rd.     1998-1
Tenth St.               From Broadway S. to Lincoln St.        2015-4
West St.                From W. Main St. to N. Michigan Ave.   1998-1
Wilder St.              From E. Main St. to S. Michigan Ave.   1998-1
   (B)   Any person who commits a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall have committed a Class A violation of the Code of Ordinances of
the City of Greensburg, with a fine of $100 for each violation. When a citation
is issued by the City of Greensburg with the class of violation noted, the fine
applicable to the violation shall be paid within ten days to the City of
Greensburg through the Office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. If a fine is not
paid to the city and it becomes necessary for the city to file a legal cause of
action to recover the fine, the city shall then be permitted to recover any
reasonable and necessary legal expenses associated with the cause of action.
(Ord. 1991-10, passed 8-5-91; Am. Ord. 1998-14, passed 8-3-98; Am. Ord. 1999-
10, passed 9-7-99; Am. Ord. 2001-25, passed 12-4-01; Am. Ord. 2015-4, passed 8-
3-15)
SCHEDULE IX: SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES
   (A)   The Street and Sanitation Commissioner is hereby authorized and
empowered to establish and mark with legible signs snow emergency routes on the
following streets.
Street From Ord.
Street              From                                          Ord.
Barachel Lane       North Broadway Street - Montgomery Road       2011-7
Broadway Street     Davis Street - Smith Road                     2011-7
Davidson Street     Main Street - Montgomery Road                 2011-7
First Street        North Michigan Avenue - Lincoln Street        2011-7
Freeland Road       State Road 3 Bypass - Montgomery Road         2011-7
Lincoln Street      East Main Street - State Road 3 Bypass        2011-7
Millhousen Road     South Michigan Avenue - City Limits           2011-7
Montgomery Road     Lincoln Street - Davidson Street              2011-7
Moscow Road         North Michigan Avenue - County Road 150 North 2011-7
North Carver Street State Road 3 Bypass - County Road 150 North   2011-7
Park Road           Ireland Street - County Road 150 West         2011-7
Vandalia Road       North Michigan Avenue - Kaleigh               2011-7
West Street         West Main Street - North Michigan Avenue      2011-7
 
   (B)   The mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to declare a snow
emergency when circumstances so warrant. Upon the declaration by the mayor of a
snow emergency then the prohibitions and penalties set forth in division (C)
shall become immediately effective.
   (C)   Any person who commits a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall commit a Class B violation of the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Greensburg, with a fine of $50 for each violation. When a citation is issued
by the City of Greensburg with the class of violation noted, the fine
applicable to the violation shall be paid within ten days to the City of
Greensburg through the Office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. If a fine is not
paid to the city and it becomes necessary for the city to file a legal cause of
action to recover the fine, the city shall then be permitted to recover any
reasonable and necessary legal expenses associated with the cause of action.
   (D)   Any fines collected for violations of this Schedule shall be deposited
to the City of Greensburg General Fund.
(Ord. 1995-28, passed 1-2-96; Am. Ord. 1996-18, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 1999-
10, passed 9-7-99; Am. Ord. 2011-7, passed 4-4-11)
CHAPTER 76: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
76.01   Definitions
   
76.02   Operation of golf cart
   
76.03   Operator
   
76.04   Financial responsibility
   
76.05   Time of operation
   
76.06   Place of operation
   
76.07   Occupants
   
76.08   Traffic rules
   
76.09   Registration
   
76.10   Other
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DRIVER'S LICENSE." A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by
Indiana or any other state.
   "FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY." Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart or
recreational off-road vehicle in an amount not less than required by Indiana
law for motor vehicles operated on public highways in the State of Indiana.
   “GOLF CART.” A vehicle with four wheels originally designed for operation on
a golf course and powered by a battery or internal combustion motor and an
unladen weight of no more than 1,500 pounds, as that term is defined in IC 9-
13-2-69.7. Lawn mowers are specifically excluded from the definition of “GOLF
CART” for purposes of this chapter.
   "PERSONAL TRANSPORTATION CART." Equipped with headlights, taillights, brake
lights, seatbelts, turn signals, slow moving sign and rearview mirror allowing
the licensed owner to operate on non-prohibited roads, highways, and other
public rights-of-way posted with a speed limit of 30 miles an hour or less.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-7-21)
§ 76.02 OPERATION OF GOLF CART.
   The operation of a golf cart within the City of Greensburg is strictly
prohibited unless the golf cart is operated and equipped in full compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-7-21)
§ 76.03 OPERATOR.
   Only valid licensed drivers, 16 years of age or older, and issued a driver’s
license from a State Bureau of Motor Vehicles may operate a golf cart or
recreational off road vehicle in the City of Greensburg.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-7-21)
§ 76.04 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The operator of a golf cart must show financial responsibility when
operating a golf cart. Written proof of financial responsibility must be
available either on the golf cart or on the person of the driver. Golf cart
owners must have proof of valid insurance covering his or her vehicle in an
amount greater than or equal to the Indiana state automotive insurance minimums
as set forth in IC 9-25-4-5 when operated on city streets.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-7-21)
§ 76.05 TIME OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts are not permitted on city streets from midnight to 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-7-21)
§ 76.06 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts may be operated on city streets which have a posted speed limit
of 30 miles per hour or less. Golf carts shall not be operated on city
sidewalks or upon any state highways located within the City of Greensburg,
specifically State Road 3, U.S. 421 or U.S. 46. Golf carts are permitted to
cross state highways, specifically State Road 3, U.S. 421, or U.S. 46 at
formal, paved intersections.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-7-21)
§ 76.07 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number of
persons for whom factory and/or after-market seating is installed and provided
on the golf cart. The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf
cart and no part of the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside
the perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is being operated. No one
under the age of eight years is allowed to ride on the back seat of the golf
cart unless accompanied by an adult. No children under 48 lbs. that require a
child safety restraint seat are permitted to ride on a golf cart without proper
restraint as if the golf cart were an automobile.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-7-21)
§ 76.08 TRAFFIC RULES.
   Golf carts shall obey all of the rules of the road and shall display a “slow
moving vehicle” sign of the same type required under Indiana Law, as well as a
registered sticker from the City of Greensburg, valid for the current year.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-7-21)
§ 76.09 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Decals issued upon registration. Prior to operation on private roads,
highways, and other public right-of-way, a golf cart must be registered
annually with the city by the Greensburg Police Department. To register, each
operator must present a serial number, the make and model number of their golf
cart, proof of address and contact phone number, and proof of insurance and pay
a processing fee in the sum of $35. This processing fee shall be paid annually
to the Greensburg Clerk-Treasurer’s Office. Each vehicle will be visibly
inspected for compliance with all Indiana laws and ordinances. Inspections
shall occur at the Greensburg Police Department at a date and time to be
determined by the Greensburg Chief of Police and posted at the Greensburg
police station. Upon registration and inspection, the operator will be provided
with a license plate specific to that vehicle. The license plate provided by
the Greensburg Police Department shall always be displayed prominently on the
rear of the vehicle while on city streets. All funds received from registration
and issuance of license plate shall be deposited into the General Fund for the
City of Greensburg and allocated to recoup costs of the golf cart license
registration process and other public safety projects.
   (B)   Registration/transfer fee. A registration fee of $35 for each golf
cart shall be payable at the time of registration, and the registration shall
be effective for a period of one year.
   (C)   All golf cart annual registrations/transfer fee payments must be
completed prior to June 1 of each calendar year.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-7-21; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-10-22)
§ 76.10 OTHER.
   The Board of Works for the City Of Greensburg may exempt from the provisions
of this chapter the use of golf carts or recreational off-road vehicles in
favor of public safety personnel and/or the use of golf carts during special
events. All special events participants should be identified as such and each
individual must provide proof of insurance and a valid driver’s license before
being allowed to operate a golf cart or recreational off-road vehicle during
any special event.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-7-21)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the Greensburg Police Department to issue a
uniform traffic citation to any person the officer has probable cause to
believe has violated a provision of Indiana Codes or the Greensburg City
Ordinance while operating a golf cart, whether the offending person is a
juvenile or any other person.
   (B)   It shall be the policy of the City of Greensburg that an unregistered
golf cart is in violation of the Indiana Code requiring a municipal ordinance
approving the use of the golf cart and the cart will be towed and the operator
issued an Indiana uniform traffic citation pursuant to IC 9-21-1-3.3(a).
   (C)   It shall be the policy of the Greensburg Police Department that any
golf cart found operating in violation of this chapter shall be subject to the
following fines:
      (1)   First offense: $50;
      (2)   Second offense within one year: $100;
      (3)   Third offense within one year: $500 and revocation of registration
and cart impoundment (seized by wrecker). Registration revocation will be in
effect for minimum one year duration;
      (4)   If the owner or operator of a golf cart shall receive in excess of
three unpaid violations of this chapter, the golf cart may be towed away or
immobilized by employees of the city or any other person or firm that the city
may appoint or hire. The owner or operator of the vehicle can obtain possession
of the vehicle by paying the penalty, as assessed pursuant to §
72.99 , for each violation that had been given to such owner or operator, plus
an amount equal to the cost of towing away such golf cart in the event the golf
cart is towed away; and
      (5)   Any conviction for criminal trespass involving a golf cart, as
defined by IC 14-8-2-185, subsequent to the previous divisions above, shall
result in an automatic lifetime suspension from the operation of a golf cart on
city streets.
   (D)   A fine assessed for a violation of a traffic ordinance associated with
this chapter will be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office , or may be contested
in a court of law.
   (E)   Court costs, as set by the state schedule, and applicable attorney's
fees shall apply to all cases contested in court.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-7-21)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   GARBAGE AND TRASH
      
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
97.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
98.   SHOPPING CENTERS
      
99.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
100.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Running at large
   
90.03   Dangerous or vicious animals
   
90.04   Loud or unusual noises
   
90.05   Animal sanitation
   
90.06   Destruction of dangerous animals
   
90.07   Impoundment
   
90.08   Humane treatment
   
90.09   Animal fighting prohibited
   
90.10   Kennels, farm animals; zoning requirements
   
90.11   Rabies immunization required
   
90.12   Spread of disease; special proclamation
   
90.13   Destruction of rabid dogs
   
90.14   Classification, penalties and fines for violations
   
90.15   Schedule of fees for impoundment
Animal Control Board
   
90.20   Joint City-County Board created
   
90.21   Composition of Board; compensation
   
90.22   Officers
   
90.23   Powers
   
90.24   Budget
   
90.25   Acceptance of gifts
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DOG."All animals, regardless of sex, of the canine species.
   "DOMESTIC ANIMAL."Dogs, cats, and any other type of animal or fowl normally
maintained as a household pet or guardian.
   "VICIOUS ANIMAL" or "DANGEROUS ANIMAL."Any animal that has at any time
bitten any human being, or that has demonstrated a dangerous propensity.
(‘76 Code, §§ 5-l, 5-3) (Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2019-38,
passed 1-6-20)
§ 90.02 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who owns, keeps, or harbors a domestic animal shall cause or
permit such animal to run at large within the city.
('76 Code, § 5-2)
   (B)   IFor violation of this section see §
90.14.
(‘76 Code, § 5-l4) (Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 1-6-20)
§ 90.03 DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor a dangerous or vicious animal
within the city, unless the person shall keep the animal safely and securely
confined so as to protect from injury any person or child who lawfully comes on
the premises in the vicinity where the animal may be located.Adequate warning
by signs, or otherwise, shall be given to all persons lawfully coming on the
premises in the vicinity of any vicious or dangerous animal so confined.
('76 Code, § 5-3)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person keeping, owning, or harboring any
vicious dog in the city to allow such dog on the streets of the city unless the
dog is securely muzzled so as to effectually prevent the dog from biting and
the dog is accompanied by and under the charge of its owner or some other
authorized person.
   (C)   Every dangerous animal, as determined by the Animal Control Board,
shall be restrained by the owner within a building or secure enclosure, as
recommended by the Animal Control Officer, and shall be physically confined and
securely muzzled or caged whenever off the premises of the owner.
   (D)   Every dangerous animal, as determined by the Animal Control Officer,
shall be spayed or neutered at the owner’s expense within 30 days from being
declared dangerous.
   (E)   Every owner of a dangerous animal must report the following within 24
hours: the dangerous animal dies; change in owner’s place of primary residence;
change in location where the dangerous animal is kept, boarded or otherwise
held; ownership has been transferred including name, address and telephone
number of the new owner and location of the dangerous animal.
   (F)   A list of any animals declared dangerous by the Animal Control Office
will be maintained by Greensburg Police Department and may be made available to
the public, both upon request and on Animal Control Board official website.
That list may include, but not be limited to; the description of the animal and
the known location where the animal is kept.
   (G)   In determining the dangerousness of an animal, the Animal Control
Officer may require the owner to submit their animal for evaluation by Animal
Control Officer. Failure by the owner to submit their animal for such an
evaluation will result in the animal being conclusively determined to be
dangerous by the Animal Control Officer.
   (H)   For violations of this section see § 90.14.
(‘76 Code, § 5-28) (Ord. passed 4-4-l0; Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am.
Ord. 2019-38, passed 1-6-20)
§ 90.04 LOUD OR UNUSUAL NOISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in charge or control of
any animal or for any person who has the authority or power to prevent the
same, to permit any such animal to disturb the peace or quiet of any place,
neighborhood, family or person in the city by barking, howling, crying, or
other distressing or loud or unusual noise.The disturbing of the peace or quiet
of any such place, neighborhood, family or person in the city by any such
animal is declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to properly zoned and constructed
kennels, animal hospitals, and pounds.
   (C)   For violations of this section see §
90.14.
(‘76 Code, § 5-4) (Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed
1-6-20)
§ 90.05 ANIMAL SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in charge or control of
any animal to allow an animal to soil, defile, defecate or leave its waste on
any public property, street, sidewalk, public way, or private property other
than the private property of the animal’s owner.
   (B)   Any person who permits any animal to defecate or leave its waste upon
an unauthorized place shall be required to immediately remove such excrement
and dispose of it in a proper container.
   (C)   For violations of this section see §
90.14.
(Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed December 4, 2017; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 1-6-20)
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   If any dangerous, fierce, or vicious animal cannot safely be
impounded, such animal may be destroyed by any police officer. The disposition
of the destroyed animal shall be in accordance with the provisions of law.
(‘76 Code, § 5-8)
   (B)   In case any animal shall disturb the peace or quiet of any place or
neighborhood or become a nuisance as defined in this chapter, the animal may be
destroyed.
(‘76 Code, § 5-5) (Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed
1-6-20)
§ 90.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Impoundment of animals, when necessary for the public health, safety, and
welfare, shall be a function of the Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control
Board.
(Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 1-6-20)
Cross-reference:
   Animal Control Board, see §§
90.20 -
90.25
§ 90.08 HUMANE TREATMENT.
   (A)   All dogs or small domestic animals when tied shall have not less than
six feet of chain or rope attached to a collar. Fresh water shall be available
at all times to any confined or tied animal, bird, or domestic pet.
   (B)   Shelter from freezing weather, snow, and rain must be provided. Tied
animals must have access to a shaded area at all times.
   (C)   No animal shall be left in an automobile or similar enclosure without
proper ventilation.
   (D)   No female animal in heat shall be tied out unguarded or allowed to run
loose.
   (E)   No animal shall be abused, kicked, beaten, or cruelly treated.
   (F)   Living quarters and enclosures for animals shall be kept dry, clean,
and free of drafts and vermin. Houses or shelters for animals shall have such
materials as straw, hay, shavings, or some other such material for the winter
bedding.
   (G)   Owner responsibility.
      (1)   All dogs and cats should have adequate care. “ADEQUATE CARE” means
the provision of enough food, water, shelter, sanitary conditions, exercise and
veterinary medical attention in order to maintain an animal in a good state of
health.
      (2)   Every female animal in heat or rutting shall be restrained within a
building or secure enclosure so that the animal cannot come into contact with a
male animal of the same species except for planned breeding. Any unaltered male
animal shall not be allowed to roam at large.
      (3)   Every owner of an animal within the city shall see that their
animal:
         (a)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement.
“SANITARY CONDITION” means space free from health hazards including excessive
animal waste, overcrowding of animals, or other conditions that endanger the
animal’s health. This definition does not include any condition resulting from
a customary and reasonable practice pursuant to farming or animal husbandry.
         (b)   Is not chained or tethered outside in a continuous manner
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
         (c)   Is not restrained by the neck with the use of a rope, wire,
chain, or other metal collar.
         (d)   If chained or tied outside, shall have available at all times
for that animal a chain, leash, or lead, not less than ten feet or two and one-
half lengths of the animal, whichever is the greater. However, this chain,
leash, or lead cannot allow the animal to enter onto or into another persons’
property or onto the public right-of-way.
         (e)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water, proper for that
species of animal.
         (f)   Has a proper and adequate structure provided that will protect
that animal from all elements of the weather and will allow that animal to
stand, sit, and lie down without restriction.
         (g)   If ill, diseased, or injured, receive care as necessary to
prevent the transmittal of the disease to other animals or prolong the
suffering of the injured animal.
         (h)   Is not beaten, cruelly treated, overloaded, overworked, or
otherwise abused, or cause, instigate, or permit any dog fight, cockfight,
bullfight, or other combat between animals or between animals and humans.
         (i)   Is not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian with the exception of tattooing and grooming.
         (j)   Does not defecate upon private or public property unless the
owner of the dog or cat promptly cleans up after the dog or cat.
      (4)   In addition to general animal care and treatment in this section,
every owner or keeper of the dog kept within Greensburg city limits shall see
that when such dog is confined outside:
         (a)   Has access to shelter that is made of weather resistant
material, consisting of a structure with all solid sides, a dry floor raised
above the ground, and a solid roof to protect the dog from weather and extreme
cold/heat. During winter and any day that the weather reaches 40 degrees
Fahrenheit and below, the shelter must be large enough for the dog to stand up
and turn around, the entrance must be covered by flexible wind-proofing
material or self-closing door, and must contain clean, dry bedding, which must
consist of an insulating material that does not retain moisture, such as straw,
not blankets, of sufficient depth to allow the dog to burrow. On any day when
the temperature is at or above 80 degrees Fahrenheit, the shelter must be
shaded by trees, a tarp, or a tarp-like device.
         (b)   Dog breeds that become susceptible in extreme weather should be
brought in a temperature controlled facility, or when a heat advisory, freeze
advisory, or a tornado warning has been issued by local, state, or national
authority, except when the dog is in visual range of a competent adult who
remains outside with the dog.
         (c)   Small breed dogs, which are defined as dogs that are less than
25 pounds and short hair, must be brought into a temperature-controlled
facility when the temperature reaches 40 degrees Fahrenheit and 90 degrees
Fahrenheit.
         (d)   Medium breed dogs, which are defined as dogs that weigh between
25 and 75 pounds, must be brought in a temperature-controlled facility when the
temperature reaches 25 degrees Fahrenheit and 90 degrees Fahrenheit.
         (e)   Large breed dogs, which are defined as dogs that weigh more than
75 pounds, must be brought in a temperature-controlled facility when the
temperature reaches 15 degrees Fahrenheit and 80 degrees Fahrenheit.
         (f)   As different breeds can thrive in different weather the final
decision will be left to the determination of the Animal Control Officer. The
breeds listed above are used for example and not meant to be the only breeds
included.
      (5)   This section shall also apply to animals kept at the Greensburg-
Decatur County Animal Control Shelter or by anyone acting on behalf of the
Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board.
      (6)   For violations of this section see §
90.14.
(‘76 Code, § 5-ll) (Am. Ord. 2012-7, passed 7-2-12; Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed
12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 1-6-20)
§ 90.09 ANIMAL FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any person who keeps or uses or is in any way connected with the
management of any room, place, building, enclosure, or other premises, kept or
used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any dog, cock, or other animal, or
who shall permit such place to be kept or used on premises owned, rented, or
controlled by him, or who shall frequent or be found therein, shall be guilty
of a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   For violations of this section see §
90.14.
(‘76 Code, § 5-l2) (Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed
1-6-20)
§ 90.10 KENNELS, FARM ANIMALS; ZONING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No one shall raise animals or fowl for sale within the city limits nor
keep for profit any kennel for the boarding of animals unless the animals are
raised, sold, or boarded on property properly zoned for such purpose.
(‘76 Code, § 5-l5)
   (B)   Farm animals, which shall include but not be limited to horses,
cattle, swine, sheep, goats, ducks, geese, chickens, roosters, turkeys and
rabbits shall not be permitted in the city except as follows:
      (1)   Farm animals shall be prohibited except rabbits which are permitted
as follows:
         (a)   No more than four rabbits per dwelling lot and that the rabbits
be housed in a rabbit hutch.
         (b)   The rabbit hutch shall be located in the rear yard only.
         (c)   The rabbit hutch must be at least 20 feet from any adjacent
property line measured as the shortest distance from the exterior wall of the
rabbit hutch to the adjacent property line.
         (d)   The rabbit hutch shall not exceed 15 square feet in size.
   (C)   For violations of this section see §
90.14.
(‘76 Code, § 5-l6) (Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed
1-6-20)
§ 90.11 RABIES IMMUNIZATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor any dog which is over
the age of six months and which is not presently immunized against rabies and
to allow such dog to run loose, with the result that bodily injury is inflicted
on a human being.
   (B)   For violations of this section see §
90.14.
(‘76 Code, §§ 5-36 and 5-37) (Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
38, passed 1-6-20)
§ 90.12 SPREAD OF DISEASE; SPECIAL PROCLAMATION.
   Whenever the Mayor or Chief of Police apprehends that there is danger of the
existence or spread of hydrophobia or other dangerous disease within the city,
either shall issue a proclamation ordering and requiring all persons owning,
possessing, or harboring any member of the canine family within the city limits
to:
   (A)   Confine or muzzle such animal for a term of not less than 30 nor more
than 90 days following the date of such proclamation;
   (B)   Cause such uninoculated animal to be inoculated with antirabies serum
by a registered veterinary surgeon;
   (C)   Cause such animal to be effectively secured and muzzled during the
period of the proclamation so as to prevent the animal from biting humans and
other animals.
   (D)   For violations of this section see §
90.14.
(‘76 Code, § 5-38) (Ord. passed 5-l3-l0; Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am.
Ord. 2019-38, passed 1-6-20)
Cross-reference:
   Civil emergencies, see
Ch. 91
   Health and sanitation, see
Ch. 94
Statutory reference:
   Quarantines, see IC 36-8-2-5
§ 90.13 DESTRUCTION OF RABID DOGS.
   Any member of the canine family which may be found in violation of the
provisions of the proclamation issued pursuant to §
90.12 shall be destroyed by order of the Chief of Police.
(‘76 Code, § 5-39) (Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed
1-6-20)
§ 90.14 CLASSIFICATION, PENALTIES AND FINES OF VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a fine or action,
as follows:
   (A)   For any violation of §§
90.05,
90.08,
90.10,
90.11 and
90.12, a fine of $20 for the first offense, with the fines increasing in
increments of $20 for each subsequent offense within one year of the first
offense, but not more than $1,000.
   (B)   For any violation of §§
90.02,
90.04 and
90.09, a fine of $50 for the first offense, with the fines increasing in
increments of $50 for each subsequent offense within one year of the first
offense, but not more than $1,000.
   (C)   For violations of §
90.03, a fine of $100, with fines increasing in increments of $100 for
subsequent violations. If a dangerous animal has been confiscated for violation
(s) of §
90.03, then the animal may be euthanized after seven days’ notice to an owner.
   (D)   Any person or persons owning a dangerous animal and subject to the
orders of the Animal Control Officer, may appeal any such findings or orders by
giving written notice of appeal to the Animal Control Board within seven days
of any such findings or order, or within seven days in the event of notice that
an animal will be euthanized. The Animal Control Board shall forward the notice
of appeal to the secretary of the Animal Control Board. The Animal Control
Officer shall cease any action that is irreversible with regard to any animal
pending appeal.
   (E)   Habitual offenders. A court of competent jurisdiction may declare a
person a habitual offender and that person or owner shall not own, keep or
harbor any animal within the city limits.
   (F)   Any person or owner found to be a habitual offender is subject to
having the animal(s) immediately confiscated by the Animal Control Department
and subject to a fine of $250 for each offense. The court of jurisdiction will
be notified of this violation.
   (G)   The fines for citations shall be paid within ten days to the City of
Greensburg office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The person issued a citation shall be
liable for all reasonable and necessary legal expenses, court costs, and other
costs of collection in the event the fine is not paid.
(Ord. 1999-10, passed 9-6-99; Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
38, passed 1-6-20)
§ 90.15 SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The following schedule of fees is set for the impoundment of animals
at the animal shelter: Impoundment fee - $10 per day.
   (B)   No animal shall be released to its owner unless the proper license has
been obtained for the animal and the fees set by this section have been paid.
   (C)   An adoption fee shall be assessed at the time of adoption. No dog or
cat shall be released for adoption as a pet without being neutered or without
written agreement from the adopter guaranteeing that the animal will be
neutered. Vaccination fees and veterinary costs may be assessed above and
beyond the adoption fee.
(Ord. 2001-21, passed 10-2-01; Am. Ord. 2017-21, passed 12-4-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
38, passed 1-6-20)
ANIMAL CONTROL BOARD
§ 90.20 JOINT CITY-COUNTY BOARD CREATED.
   In order to promote the health, safety, and well-being of the residents of
Decatur County, a joint Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board is
created.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 7-7-81)
§ 90.21 COMPOSITION OF BOARD; COMPENSATION.
   The Joint Animal Control Board shall be composed of six members, one of whom
shall be the Police Chief, one of whom shall be the Sheriff of Decatur County,
two of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor, and two of whom shall be appointed
by the County Commissioners.The four appointees shall be compensated from the
funds budgeted by such Board at the rate of $15 each per month.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 7-7-81)
§ 90.22 OFFICERS.
   The Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board shall elect a president
and secretary from its membership who shall serve in such offices for a term of
one year.Such officers shall be elected annually at a Joint Animal Control
Board meeting to be held in December of each year and such officers shall take
office on the first Monday of the following year.On alternate years, the office
of president shall rotate between an appointee of the city and an appointee of
the county.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 7-7-81)
§ 90.23 POWERS.
   The Joint Animal Control Board shall be empowered with all powers granted to
such boards by the statutes of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 7-7-81)
Statutory reference:
   Interlocal cooperation act, see IC 36-1-7-1 et seq.
§ 90.24 BUDGET.
   (A)   The Joint Animal Control Board shall determine its total budget
request and submit the same to the Board of County Commissioners and the City
Council which shall determine the appropriation to be made.
   (B)   The budget for the Joint Animal Control Board shall be raised equally
from the city and the county.
   (C)   Moneys appropriated by the participating political subdivisions shall
be deposited in a Joint City-County Animal Control Board fund in the custody of
the County Auditor.Moneys may be withdrawn only on vouchers signed by the
president and secretary.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 7-7-81)
§ 90.25 ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS.
   The Joint Animal Control Board shall have the authority to accept gifts of
money or property, and may accept such gifts subject to conditions imposed by
the donor, if the Board determines that acceptance of such gifts is in the
public interest.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 7-7-81)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $l,000.A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 91: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Special mayoral proclamation
   
91.03   Curfew
   
91.04   Cessation of business
   
91.05   Special regulations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Civil defense, see §
33.01
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CIVIL EMERGENCY."
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force, if accompanied by immediate power
to execute such force, by three or more persons acting together without
authority of law; or
      (2)   Any natural disaster or man-made calamity including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, or explosion within the corporate
limits of the city resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
('76 Code, § 8-13)
Statutory reference:
   Public health, safety, and welfare, see IC 36-8-2-4
§ 91.02 SPECIAL MAYORAL PROCLAMATION.
   When, in the judgment of the Mayor, a civil emergency is deemed to exist, he
shall forthwith proclaim in writing the existence of the emergency.In case of
the absence of the Mayor from the city the Acting Mayor appointed by the Mayor
or, if there is none, the Chief of Police, shall be authorized to act in his
stead.Such proclamation shall state the regulations invoked thereby, and shall
be published in English in a newspaper of general circulation published in the
city, as quickly as possible, and shall forthwith be posted in five public
places in the city.The officer making such proclamation shall endeavor to have
the fact and contents thereof broadcast by radio or television.
('76 Code, § 8-14)
Cross-reference:
   Spread of disease; special proclamation, see §
90.11
§ 91.03 CURFEW.
   As a part of the proclamation provided for in §
91.02, a general curfew may be ordered prohibiting any person from walking,
running, loitering, standing, or motoring in any place in the whole or in such
part of the city as may be defined in the proclamation.The curfew shall be
applicable during such hours of the day or night as the Mayor deems necessary
in the interest of the public health, safety, and welfare.
('76 Code, § 8-15)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04 CESSATION OF BUSINESS.
   As a part of the proclamation provided for in §
91.02, the Mayor may also, in the interest of the public safety and welfare,
make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
   (B)   Order the closing of all taverns;
   (C)   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein the
consumption of intoxicating liquor or beer, or both, is permitted;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer;
   (E)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away
gasoline or other flammable liquids or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (F)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments, the
chief activity of which is the sale, distribution, or dispensing of flammable
liquid or combustible products;
   (G)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing, or
giving away of firearms or ammunition or both;
   (H)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
('76 Code, § 8-16)
§ 91.05 SPECIAL REGULATIONS.
   During the period of a declared state of emergency the Mayor shall have the
power to invoke any or all of the following regulations:
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages.No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage in
a public street or place which is publicly owned, or in any motor vehicle
driven or parked thereon which is within a duly designated restricted area.
   (B)   Weapons.No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club, brick
or weapon, which such person uses or intends to use unlawfully against the
person or property of another.
   (C)   Incendiary missiles.No person shall make, carry, possess or use any
type of "Molotov cocktail," gasoline- or petroleum-base fire bomb or other
incendiary missile.
   (D)   Restricted areas.No person shall enter any area designated by the
Mayor as a restricted area, unless in the performance of official duty or with
written permission from the Mayor or his duly designated representative, or
person residing therein, or a person related as a guardian, parent or child of
a person residing therein.
('76 Code, § 8-15)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation invoked
under this chapter, for which no penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined
not more than $1,000. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Permits; burning provisions; discontinuance
   
92.03   (Reserved)
   
92.04   Transporting flammable liquids
   
92.05   False alarms
   
92.06   Obstructing fire protection equipment
   
92.07   Key lock box system
   
92.08   Consumer fireworks
   
92.09   Fines and fees
Smoke Detectors
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Basic requirements
   
92.22   Installation; location
   
92.23   Maintenance; testing
   
92.24   Duty of property owner, manager, or rental agent
   
92.25   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Ch. 35
Statutory reference:
   Fire prevention, see IC 36-8-2-3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “BONFIRE.” A large fire that is made outside to burn unwanted things, or for
pleasure.
   “FIRE PITS.” Any metal, stone or landscape rock designed to contain a small
domestic fire for personal enjoyment.
(Ord. l976-3, passed 4-5-76; Am. Ord. 2020-4, passed 7-6-20)
§ 92.02 PERMITS; BURNING PROVISIONS; DISCONTINUANCE.
   (A)   Permits. A permit to burn may be issued in special instances or for
special occasions by the Chief of the Fire Department. This permit may be
obtained at the Fire Station at no cost.
   (B)   Burning provisions.
      (1)   General. A person shall not kindle or maintain or authorize to be
kindled or maintained any burning unless conducted and approved in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Discontinuance. The Fire Chief is authorized to require burning be
immediately discontinued if such burning constitutes a hazardous condition.
      (3)   Exceptions or special use (i.e., fires used for celebrating school
pep rallies and fires used for celebrating scouting activities) which may be
approved at the discretion of the Fire Chief.
      (4)   Material restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to build a bonfire or to burn any rags, leaves, large volumes of
yard waste, paper, boxes, boards, trash, rubber, garbage, motor vehicles,
buildings, rubbish, or refuse of any kind within the city limits without a
permit.
      (5)   Extinguishment authority. When burning creates or adds to a
hazardous situation, or a required permit for burning has not been obtained, or
for any other reason deemed appropriate by the authorized fire official, the
authorized fire officials may order the extinguishment of the fire.
      (6)   Wood fire pits.
         (a)   Fire in approved fire pits must be at least 15 feet from a
structure.
         (b)   Fire Pits shall not exceed three feet in diameter.
         (c)   Fires in a fire pit shall not exceed two feet in height.
         (d)   Firewood, small sticks, charcoal, or starter packs are all that
is permitted to be burnt in fire pits.
      (7)   Portable outdoor fireplaces.
         (a)   Portable outdoor fireplaces shall be used in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions and shall not be operated within 15 feet of a
structure or combustible material.
         (b)   Firewood, small sticks, charcoal, or starter packs are all that
is permitted to be burnt in outdoor fireplaces.
      (8)   Natural/propane gas fire pits shall be used in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions and shall be operated at a safe distance of
surrounding structures.
      (9)   Attendance. Burning material shall be constantly attended by a
person knowledgeable in the use of fire extinguishing equipment and familiar
with any limitations which restrict burning. A knowledgeable person shall
supervise the burning material until the fire has been extinguished.
   (C)   Discontinuance. The Fire Chief is authorized to suspend individual or
city-wide burning at any time.
(Ord. l976-3, passed 4-5-76; Am. Ord. 2020-4, passed 7-6-20)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.03 (RESERVED).
§ 92.04 TRANSPORTING FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   (A)   No truck, trailer, or semitrailer transporting flammable liquids,
explosives, or other combustible materials, shall be permitted to park on any
street, alley or public highway within the corporate limits of the city except
in extreme emergency to make emergency repairs, and such emergency stops as may
be necessary during transit, and for regular unloading operations.
   (B)   No truck, trailer, or semitrailer transporting flammable liquids,
explosives or other combustible materials shall be permitted to park on private
property within the residential district or in the high value districts of the
corporate limits of the city.
('76 Code, § 10-1)(Ord. 1960-16, passed 11-14-60)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.05 FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly give any false fire alarm
within the city limits in any manner, or to injure, interfere, or tamper with
in any manner any fire alarm apparatus.
('76 Code, § 10-3)(Ord. passed 3-6-11)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.06 OBSTRUCTING FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall place or keep any post, fence, vehicle, growth, trash,
storage or other material or object near any fire hydrant, Fire Department
connection or fire protection system control valve that would prevent such
equipment or hydrant from being immediately discernible, or in any other manner
deter or hinder the Fire Department from gaining immediate access to the
equipment or hydrant.
   (B)   A minimum of three feet of clearance shall be maintained around the
circumference of the fire hydrants except as otherwise required or approved by
the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 1993-18, passed 8-2-93)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.07 KEY LOCK BOX SYSTEM.
   (A)   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or
near the main entrance or other such location required by the Fire Chief:
      (1)   Commercial or industrial structures protected by an automatic alarm
system or an automatic suppression system, or such structures that are secured
in a manner that restricts access during and emergency;
      (2)   Multi-family residential structures that have restricted access
through locked doors and a common corridor for access to the living units;
      (3)   Nursing care facilities;
      (4)   Governmental structures that are protected by an automatic alarm or
an automatic suppression system.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of an occupation permit, all newly constructed
structures subject to this section shall have the key lock box installed and
operational. All structures subject to this section, and in existence on its
effective date, shall have one year from this effective date to have a key lock
box installed and operational.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall designate the type of key lock box system to be
implemented within the city, and shall have the authority to require all
structures to use that system.
   (D)   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock box
shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that will allow for access to
the structure.
   (E)   The key box shall contain:
      (1)   Keys to locked points of ingress, whether on the interior or
exterior of such buildings;
      (2)   Keys to locked mechanical equipment rooms;
      (3)   Keys to locked electrical rooms;
      (4)   Keys to elevator controls;
      (5)   Keys to other areas as directed by the fire officials.
   (F)   The Fire Chief shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations
for the use of the key lock box system.
(Ord. 2001-7, passed 6-5-01)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.08 CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definitions. The definitions of IC 22-11-14-1 are hereby incorporated.
   (B)   The use of consumer fireworks within the city limits are limited to
the following:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July
9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (C)   Any fireworks outside the listed dates will need to be approved by the
Greensburg Police Department.
(Ord. 2019-39, passed 1-6-20) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 FINES AND FEES.
   (A)   Where Indiana Public Law 155 of 2023 prevents local governments from
adopting fire prevention or building construction ordinances that conflict with
state statute or building or fire codes adopted by the Commission or that are
more stringent or detailed than those set forth in statute or in a building or
fire code or rule adopted by the Commission, it does not prevent a local
government from passing an ordinance establishing a fines and fees schedule, as
interpreted by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Committee.
   (B)   To be cited and to be levied a fine, certain items or actions must
first occur:
      (1)   The person or business must be inspected and found to be out of
compliance with the fire or building code adopted by the state.
      (2)   The person or business needs to have been given a written report of
the violations found during the inspection(s) and a reasonable time to correct
the violations on their own.
      (3)   If the person or business fails to take corrective measures to
address the issues, a verbal warning will be given at the first reinspection.
      (4)   If the person or business still does not have the violations
corrected before the first reinspection, a citation will be issued.
      (5)   Depending on the nature of the violation, and the past performance
of the person or business, an increasing fine schedule will be implemented.
   (C)   For immediate life safety violations, a verbal warning will be given
at that time. If the problem is not corrected immediately, a citation will be
issued, and the person or place will be closed to the public until such time
that the problem is corrected. If the problem is not corrected before the first
reinspection, an increasing fine will be issued, and the person or place will
continue to be closed to the public. This will continue until the problem is
corrected.
   (D)   Flagrant life safety violations or other fire code violations will be
levied a verbal warning up to a fine, depending on the seriousness of the
violation.
   (E)   Businesses or other places with a monitored fire alarm or fire
sprinkler system will be given two false alarms or faulty system activations
before a fine is issued, with an increasing fine for every subsequent false
alarm or faulty system activation.
   (F)   People who park in designated fire lanes or businesses that allow
parking in the designated fire lane will be subject to a citation or fine.
These will increase in amount each time this violation occurs.
   (G)   People or businesses that fail to obtain a burn permit, which can be
obtained free of charge, from the Chief or his or her designee.
   (H)   Fire investigation reports can be obtained through a freedom of
information request for a processing fee, which increases if the report is
requested with pictures.
   (I)   Any appeals to the violation report or the fines and fees schedule
will be directed to the Greensburg Board of Works.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 10-2-24)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ALARM SIGNAL."An audible signal indicating the detection of visible or
invisible, particles or products of combustion other than heat.
   "APPROVED."Approval by the Fire Chief.
   "FAMILY DWELLING UNIT."Any building area, room, or combination of rooms in
which a family (or individual) lives. This is meant to cover living area only
and not common usage areas in multi-family buildings such as corridors,
lobbies, basements, etc.
   "LABELED."When pertaining to equipment or materials, the term means an
attached label, symbol, or other identifying mark of an approved organization.
   "LISTED."When pertaining to equipment or materials, the term means inclusion
on a list, published by an approved organization, indicating that a product
meets appropriate standards or has been tested and found suitable for use in a
specified manner.
   "NFPA74."Standard 74, Household Fire Warning-Equipment-1984, published by
the National Fire Protection Association, Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269.
   "RENTAL AGENT."Any person, partnership, or corporation, who rents,
subleases, lets, or otherwise grants for a consideration the right to occupy
premises not owned by the occupant.This term shall not be construed to mean a
real estate agent who is employed for the sole purpose of selling residential
units.
   "SEPARATE SLEEPING AREA."Any area within a family dwelling unit in which
bedrooms or sleeping rooms are located.
   "SMOKE DETECTOR."A device which detects visible or invisible particles or
products of combustion.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed--)
§ 92.21 BASIC REQUIREMENTS.
   All family dwelling units within the corporate limits of the city shall be
equipped with a minimum of one functional, properly located, labeled and
listed, smoke detector, or its equivalent or better, as described in NFPA74.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed--)
§ 92.22 INSTALLATION; LOCATION.
   (A)   All smoke detectors shall be installed according to the manufacturer's
instructions and subject to the approval of the Fire Chief.
   (B)   A smoke detector shall be installed outside of each sleeping area in
the immediate vicinity of the bedrooms.
   (C)   All smoke detectors shall be installed on or near the ceiling, not
less than four inches from any wall, or on a wall, not less than four inches
nor more than 12 inches from the ceiling.Any such installation shall be subject
to approval by the Fire Chief.No detector shall be recessed into a ceiling.
   (D)   All smoke detectors shall be accessible for servicing and testing.
   (E)   Smoke detectors may receive their primary power from the building
wiring system or batteries as described in NFPA74.Connection to a building
wiring system shall be in compliance with the electrical code in effect in the
city.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed--)
§ 92.23 MAINTENANCE; TESTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or remove any smoke
detector, except when it is necessary for maintenance or inspection
purposes.Any smoke detector removed for repair or replacement shall be re-
installed or replaced so that it is operable and in place during normal
sleeping hours.
   (A)   Rented family dwelling units.Each smoke detector may be tested in
accordance with manufacturer's recommendations, but shall be tested at not more
than six month intervals in every rented family dwelling unit.
   (B)   Owner-occupied family dwelling units.Each smoke detector may be tested
in accordance with manufacturer's recommendation, but shall be tested at not
more than six month intervals.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed--)
§ 92.24 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER, MANAGER, OR RENTAL AGENT.
   Every owner, or the manager or rental agent of such owner, of any family
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the installation of required smoke
detectors.It is the responsibility of the tenant to maintain in good working
order, to include replacement of batteries as needed, any battery powered smoke
detector provided by the owner.The maintenance of any smoke detector connected
to the building wiring system shall be the responsibility of the owner,
manager, or rental agent of the property.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed--)
§ 92.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      “BUILDING COMMISSIONER.” The Building Commissioner of the city.
      “FIRE CHIEF.” The Fire Chief of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Permits. The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, and the Building
Commissioner, or his or her designee, are authorized to enforce this chapter
and may issue citations for violations as set forth herein.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2020-13, passed 9-8-20)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $l,000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §§
92.20 through
92.25, or who shall fail to comply with a lawful order issued by the Fire
Chief, for each such violation or failure shall be fined in any sum not less
than $20.
   (C)   Any person violating §
92.08 shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, $50;
      (2)   For the second offense, $100;
      (3)   For the third and subsequent offenses, $500.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates § 92.02 may be fined as
follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, $100;
      (2)   For the second offense, $200;
      (3)   For the third offense or more, $500.
(Am. Ord. 2019-39, passed 1-6-20; Am. Ord. 2020-4, passed 7-6-20)
CHAPTER 93: GARBAGE AND TRASH
Section
General
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Transporting refuse
   
93.03   Dumping prohibited
   
93.04   Compliance with state and county rules
Collection
   
93.10   Collection available to residents only
   
93.11   Collection from residences only
   
93.12   Holiday collection
   
93.13   Placement for collection
   
93.14   Containers
   
93.15   Removal of empty containers
   
93.16   Brush, tree branches, leaves, grass, and other vegetation
   
93.17   Garbage to be drained and securely wrapped
   
93.18   Newspapers and cardboard
   
93.19   Handling of dust and ashes
   
93.20   Articles not to be collected
   
93.21   Refusal of collection for noncompliance
Household Materials Collection Fee
   
93.30   Monthly household materials collection fee
   
93.31   Fees are to defray cost of material collection services
   
93.32   Payment; water and sewage services
   
93.33   Revenues, special fund
   
93.34   Failure to pay fee
   
93.35   Penalties, damages and expenses
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ASHES." Residue from fires used for cooking, or heating buildings, or
residue from grills, or other permissible fires.
   "COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS." Any public or private place, building, and/or
enterprise devoted in whole or in part to a business enterprise whether
nonprofit or profit-making in nature. Multi-family establishments such as
condominiums, town homes, patio houses, apartments, and other such facilities
used for residential purposes containing three or more residential living units
under one roof are commercial establishments. A mobile home complex with five
or more individual homes shall also be considered a commercial establishment.
   "CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS." Discarded materials generally
considered to be not water-soluble and nonhazardous in nature, including but
not limited to steel, glass, brick, concrete, asphalt roofing material, pipe,
gypsum wallboard, and lumber, from the construction or destruction of a
structure as part of a construction or demolition project or from the
renovation of a structure, and including rocks, soils, tree remains, trees, and
other vegetative matter that normally results from land clearing or land
development operations for a construction project, including such debris from
construction of structures at a site remote from the construction or demolition
project site. Mixing of construction and demolition debris with other types of
solid waste will cause it to be classified as construction and demolition
debris.
   "FURNITURE." Movable objects intended to support various human activities
such as seating and sleeping. Items included but not limited to are beds,
mattresses, chairs, dressers, sofas, tables and chairs, and desks. Appliances
are all considered furniture for this chapter.
   "GARBAGE" or "TRASH." All refuse accumulations of animal, fruit, or
vegetable matter that attend the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or
storage of meat, fish, fowl, fruits, or vegetables, and containers originally
used for foodstuffs. Normal household items such as other small containers,
clothing, and bedding will be considered the same.
   "REFUSE." Garbage, trash, or ashes.
('76 Code, § 12-1) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12)
§ 93.02 TRANSPORTING REFUSE.
   No person conveying his garbage or refuse to the landfill or other place of
disposal, or engaged in such enterprise, shall permit any such refuse to fall
from the vehicle on any public street or alley in the city.
('76 Code, § 12-2) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.03 DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to dump or place any garbage or refuse on any alley,
street, roadside, or on any other premises in the city except as provided for
in §
93.13.
('76 Code, § 12-3) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.04 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND COUNTY RULES.
   The manner of containing, keeping, and disposing of garbage and refuse shall
at all times be in compliance with all rules and regulations of the state Board
of Health and the county Board of Health, and all laws and regulations
governing the same.
('76 Code, § 12-4) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12)
Penalty, see § 93.99
COLLECTION
§ 93.10 COLLECTION AVAILABLE TO RESIDENTS ONLY.
   Collection of garbage and trash is available to residents of the city only.
Trash and garbage which originates outside the corporate limits of the city
will not be collected. Such garbage and trash shall not be placed in the city
at the residence of another or at any other place of collection within the
city.
('76 Code, § 12-16) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.11 COLLECTION FROM RESIDENCES ONLY.
   Garbage and trash collection service shall be provided by the city for
individual residential dwellings. No such service shall be provided for
commercial establishments or nonresidential property.
(‘76 Code, § 12-17) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12; Am. Ord. 2021-12, passed 9-7-21)
Penalty, see § 93.99
Statutory reference:
   Service charges, see IC 36-9-25-11 and 36-9-30-21
§ 93.12 HOLIDAY COLLECTION.
   Collection service for garbage and trash shall not be provided by the city
on holidays recognized by the city. The city holiday trash schedule will be
available prior to the beginning of the calendar year and will reflect any
collection changes. This is subject to change without notice, though notice
will be made at the earliest opportunity.
(‘76 Code, § 12-18) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12; Am. Ord. 2021-12, passed 9-7-21)
§ 93.13 PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION.
   All garbage and trash shall be set out or placed at one location at the
sidewalk line, or at such other place as the Sanitation Foreman from time to
time shall designate, no later than 7:00 a.m. on the day of collection. Such
refuse shall not be set out for collection in advance of the regularly
scheduled collection day, except after 6:00 p.m. the day before scheduled
collection. Trash containers shall not be left at curbside except on the
regular scheduled collection day or the evening before.
(‘76 Code, § 12-19) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12; Am. Ord. 2021-12, passed 9-7-21)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.14 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city
any garbage or other material subject to decay other than leaves or grass,
except in a tightly covered metal or plastic container. All trash placed in
containers must be placed in plastic trash bags.
   (B)   The only container acceptable to be utilized for residential trash
collection is the 95 gallons container (toter) that is provided by the city.
The contents of each container shall not exceed 60 pounds in weight. The toter
must have all trash within placed in tied trash bags. Loose trash placed in the
toter is not acceptable. A single residence is limited to one filled toter with
a closed lid per week. Residents are encouraged to utilize recycling to meet
this limit.
   (C)   If any resident finds a need for second toter to meet their needs,
that resident may purchase a second toter through the Greensburg Utility
Office. They will also incur an additional monthly trash collection fee. The
additional toter must remain at the dwelling it was issued to unless
notification is made to the Utility Office.
(‘76 Code, § 12-22) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12; Am. Ord. 2021-12, passed 9-7-21))
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.15 REMOVAL OF EMPTY CONTAINERS.
   Empty trash and recycling containers (toters) shall be removed from the
place designated in §
93.13 the same day collection is made.
(‘76 Code, § 12-20) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12; Am. Ord. 2021-12, passed 9-7-21)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.16 BRUSH, TREE BRANCHES, LEAVES, GRASS, AND OTHER VEGETATION.
   (A)   Collection of all vegetation described in this section will only be
collected on the same day as the resident's normal trash collection.
   (B)   The city will collect brush for residential property owners who trim
their woody vegetation. It must be placed at the curb in front of the residence
with all the butt ends facing the street and be of a manageable size to
facilitate removal. If it is the removal of shrubbery, the root ball must be
separated from the balance of the plant to prevent damage to city chipping
equipment. Also, the city will pick up limbs, trimmings and branches that have
fallen from storm damage.
   (C)   If any property owner who utilizes a tree/landscaping service, a
contractor or hired service (including but not limited to removing, topping,
and trimming trees or vegetation), the contractor or owner will be held
responsible for the removal of the resulting brush and wood.
   (D)   Garden plants, flowers, weeds, and miscellaneous vegetation is
preferred to be bagged. If it is not bagged, these items, if not more than
three feet in length and no piece is more than four inches in width or
thickness, must be tied in bundles. Small evergreen trees used in homes as
Christmas trees will be accepted whole and will only be picked up the two weeks
following Christmas. All ornaments and lights must be removed.
   (E)   All leaves and grass shall be bagged in tied durable plastic bags and
placed separately from trash for collection. The bags must be separated or
clear so city personnel can identify that they contain yard waste or leaves and
will not be confused with trash. No leaves or grass shall be raked, swept, or
placed in the gutters along the street which frequently are washed into catch
basins and storm sewers blocking or stopping the drainage of such sewers.
(‘76 Code, §§ 12-22, 12-24) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2001-8,
passed 6-5-01; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-12; Am. Ord. 2021-12, passed 9-7-
21)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.17 GARBAGE TO BE DRAINED AND SECURELY WRAPPED.
   All garbage to be collected by the Sanitary Department of the city shall be
securely wrapped with all liquids properly drained.
(‘76 Code, § 12-23) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12; Am. Ord. 2021-12, passed 9-7-21)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.18 NEWSPAPERS AND CARDBOARD.
   All newspapers, magazine, and cardboard must be placed within the toter for
collection. Residents are to place these in their recycle toter that they may
obtain from the Decatur County Solid Waste District. These items will not be
collected during heavy trash collection periods.
(‘76 Code, § 12-25) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12; Am. Ord. 2021-12, passed 9-7-21)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.19 HANDLING OF DUST AND ASHES.
   No person shall cause or permit to accumulate any dust, ashes, or trash of
such material that can be blown away by the wind anywhere in the city, except
in a covered container. Such material shall be properly dampened so as not to
cause dust when emptied by the city collectors, and no ashes shall be set out
for collection unless they are cold and dampened.
('76 Code, §§ 12-22, 12-26) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16,
passed 11-5-12)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.20 ARTICLES NOT TO BE COLLECTED.
   (A)   No furniture, appliances, or junk of any kind shall be collected by
the city in its collection of trash or refuse.
   (B)   No refuse that has been deposited in the street or gutter shall be
collected by the city.
   (C)   No construction or demolition debris shall be collected by the city.
   (D)   No electronic devices shall be collected by the city in compliance
with IC 13-20.5-10. This includes computers, computer monitor, printers and
televisions.
   (E)   Any prohibited material left at the pick-up location will be tagged by
Sanitation Department workers and shall be removed by the owner within in one
week, as it is considered a safety and health concern. The Sanitation
Department will remove and dispose of the material after the one week period
and bill the tenant or property owner of record per county records. The minimum
charge will be set at $250.00. When the full amount due to the city is not
paid, then the City Clerk's office shall cause to be recorded in the county
recorder's office a sworn statement showing the cost and expense incurred for
the work, the date the work was completed, and the location of the property on
which the work was performed. The recordation of such sworn statement shall
constitute a lien and privilege on the property and shall remain in force and
effect for the amount due on principal and interest, plus costs of courts, if
any, for collection, until final payment has been made. The costs and expenses
shall be collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of real estate
taxes and further shall be subject to a delinquent penalty the same as real
estate taxes in the event same is not paid in full on or before the date the
tax bill on which said charges appears delinquent. Sworn statements recorded in
accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima fascia evidence that all
legal formalities have been complied with and that the work has been done
properly and satisfactorily, and shall be full notice to every person concerned
that the property designated or described in the statement and that the same is
due and collectable as provided by law.
('76 Code, §§ 12-21, 12-27) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16,
passed 11-5-12))
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.21 REFUSAL OF COLLECTION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Collection of trash, garbage, or other refuse by the city shall be refused
at any time the same is not presented as provided in this chapter.
('76 Code, § 12-28) (Ord. 1970-2, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-5-
12)
HOUSEHOLD MATERIALS COLLECTION FEE
§ 93.30 MONTHLY HOUSEHOLD MATERIALS COLLECTION FEE.
   Each residential unit receiving the benefit of the garbage and trash
collection as provided in § 93.10 shall be required to pay the sum of $12 per
month for the household materials collection services being provided by the
city. This service includes weekly collection of one 96-gallon trash container
provided by the city. In the instance where a residential unit has purchased
additional 96-gallon trash containers, the fee will be $5 additional per
container per month. The household materials collection fee will be increased
by 3% annually beginning on January 1, 2022 and each year thereafter. This fee
will not include the collection of recyclable materials as that service is
provided by the Decatur County Solid Waste Management District.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-18-96; Am. Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-1-04; Am. Ord. 2020-
06, passed 9-8-20)
§ 93.31 FEES ARE TO DEFRAY COST OF MATERIAL COLLECTION SERVICES.
   The fee assessed shall be used to defray the cost of such services incurred
by the city.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-18-96; Am. Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-1-04; Am. Ord. 2020-
06, passed 9-8-20)
§ 93.32 PAYMENT; WATER AND SEWAGE SERVICES.
   The fee assessed described in §
93.30 above, shall be billed separately on the monthly water and wastewater
statement sent to each residential unit where household material collection
services are provided by the city. The fee shall be payable each month at the
business office of the Water and Wastewater Department at the same time that
water and wastewater charges are paid.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-18-96; Am. Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-1-04; Am. Ord. 2020-
06, passed 9-8-20)
§ 93.33 REVENUES, SPECIAL FUND.
   The revenues generated from the collection of the fee pursuant to this
chapter for household materials collection shall be deposited in a separate
non-reverting fund, expenditures from which shall be limited to the costs
associated with the collection of household materials.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-18-96; Am. Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-1-04; Am. Ord. 2020-
06, passed 9-8-20)
§ 93.34 FAILURE TO PAY FEE.
   If a residential unit shall fail to make payment of the fee assessed in §
93.30, the offending party shall be notified by the Water and Wastewater
Office, in writing, of the delinquent payment. If said delinquent payment is
not paid in full by the seventeenth day of each month, thereafter, then the
collection services provided by the city shall be suspended until said amount
is paid and brought to current status. Further, the delinquent party or parties
shall be required to dispose of those items which would normally be collected
by the city at his or her own expense if collection by the city is suspended
pursuant to this section, subject to the requirements found in §§
93.02,
93.03 and
93.04 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-18-96; Am. Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-1-04; Am. Ord. 2020-
06, passed 9-8-20)
§ 93.35 PENALTIES, DAMAGES AND EXPENSES.
   In addition to the fine which may be imposed pursuant to §
93.99 as a result of failure to make payment of the household materials
collection fee, any offending party or parties, whether it be a person, firm or
corporation, shall also be liable to the city for all damages and expenses
incurred by the city by reason of such violation in a civil action brought for
such purpose.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-18-96; Am. Ord. 2004-2, passed 3-1-04; Am. Ord. 2020-
06, passed 9-8-20)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000.A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General
   
94.01   Animal matter and wastes
Buildings
   
94.15   Definitions
   
94.16   Facilities and utilities to be safe and effective
   
94.17   Dwelling units to be sanitary
   
94.18   Structures to be weathertight and rodent-proof
   
94.19   Stairs and porches to be in good repair
   
94.20   Plumbing and flooring to be in good repair
   
94.21   Condemnation of unfit dwellings
   
94.22   Condemnation hearing
   
94.23   Vacation of unfit dwelling
   
94.24   Inspection of buildings
   
94.25   Notice of violations
   
94.26   Service of notice
   
94.27   Performance by city on owner's noncompliance
   
94.28   Hearing on violations
   
94.29   Record of hearing
   
94.30   Emergency order
   
94.31   Conflicting provisions; higher standard to prevail
Nuisances Resulting From Unkempt Property
   
94.40   Definitions
   
94.41   Violations
   
94.42   Exemptions
   
94.43   Inspection and notice
   
94.44   Failure to abate
   
95.45   Appeal procedure
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL
§ 94.01 ANIMAL MATTER AND WASTES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person having the ownership or control of
any animal matter which is in the process of decay or is offensive or dangerous
to the public health within the city to permit the same to be and remain within
the city more than 24 hours.
('76 Code, § 5-l3)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an insanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable wastes or waste waters.
('76 Code, § 25-20) (Ord. 1956-5, passed 4-2-56) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and trash, see
Ch. 93
BUILDINGS
§ 94.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CITY ENGINEER." The City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects
and his authorized representatives.
   "DWELLING."Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants, provided that temporary housing
as hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
   "EXTERMINATION." The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
that which may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping, or by other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by
the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects.
   "GARBAGE."The animal and vegetable waste resulting from handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   "INFESTATION."The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents, or other pests.
   "MOBILE HOME."Any vehicle which is constructed to permit its use as a
conveyance, either self-propelled or nonself-propelled, on the public streets
and highways, and which is designed and constructed to permit its occupancy as
a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons and which has no
foundation other than wheels, jacks, skirting, or other temporary support.
   "OCCUPANT."Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in or having
actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   "OPERATOR."Any person who has charge, care or control of a dwelling or
building, or part thereof.
   "OWNER."Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling, building, or structure with
or without accompanying actual possession thereof, provided, however, that
whenever the dwelling or building is subject to conditional sale contract,
lease with option to purchase, or any other form of written contract under the
terms of which any person is entitled to a conveyance of legal title on payment
of a specified sum, the term "OWNER" shall mean the person who shall have such
contractual right, rather than the person holding legal title; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling, building or
structure as executor, executrix, receiver, or guardian of the owner as defined
in division (1) above. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall
be bound to comply with the provisions of this subchapter, to the same extent
as if he were the owner. Any person acting as agent of the owner shall not be
construed to be an owner within the terms of this subchapter, but shall be
bound to notify the owner, by means of registered letter addressed to the owner
at his last known address, or any order or notice issued by the City Engineer
and/or the Director of Public Projects relating to the property of the owner.
   "PERSON."Any individual, firm, corporation, association or partnership.
   "RUBBISH."Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage,
including the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, and other
combustible material, papers, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, leaves, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery, and dust.
   "SUPPLIED."Paid for, furnished, or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
   "TEMPORARY HOUSING."Any tent, mobile home, or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 days.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
§ 94.16 FACILITIES AND UTILITIES TO BE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE.
   (A)   No person shall occupy as owner occupant or let to another for
occupancy any dwelling, building, or structure for the purpose of occupying or
living therein, which does not comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or utility which is
required under this subchapter shall be so constructed and installed that it
will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in satisfactory
working condition.
   (C)    No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service facility,
equipment, or utility which is required under this subchapter to be removed
from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling or building let
or occupied by him except for temporary interruption as may be necessary while
actual repairs or alterations are in process, or during temporary emergencies
or when discontinuance of service is approved by the City Engineer and/or the
Director of Public Projects.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.17 DWELLING UNITS TO BE SANITARY.
   No owner shall occupy or let to another occupant any vacant dwelling unit
unless it is clean, sanitary, and fit for human occupancy.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.18 STRUCTURES TO BE WEATHERTIGHT AND RODENT-PROOF.
   (A)   Every foundation floor, wall, ceiling, and roof shall be reasonably
weathertight, watertight, and rodent-proof, and shall be capable of affording
privacy, and shall be kept in good repair.
   (B)   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weathertight, watertight, and rodent-proof and shall be kept in sound working
condition and good repair.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.19 STAIRS AND PORCHES TO BE IN GOOD REPAIR.
   Every inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance thereto
shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
that normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.20 PLUMBING AND FLOORING TO BE IN GOOD REPAIR.
   (A)   Every plumbing fixture and water waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects,
leaks, and obstructions.
   (B)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.21 CONDEMNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Any dwelling, building, or structure which shall be found to have any
of the following defects shall be condemned as unfit for human occupancy and
shall be so designated and placarded by the City Engineer and/or the Director
of Public Projects.
      (1)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe,
or vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health of the
occupants or the public.
      (2)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation, or sanitary facilities
adequate to protect the health of the occupants or the public.
      (3)   One which, because of its general condition or location, is
unsanitary or otherwise dangerous to the health of the occupants or the public.
   (B)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or
building which has been condemned as unfit for human occupancy and placarded as
such, except as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.22 CONDEMNATION HEARING.
   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the condemnation and
placarding of a dwelling unit as unfit for human occupancy may request and
shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Board of Works and Public
Safety under the procedure set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
§ 94.23 VACATION OF UNFIT DWELLING.
   (A)   Any building, dwelling, or other structure condemned as unfit for
human occupancy, and so designated and placarded by the City Engineer and/or
the Director of Public Projects shall be vacated within 60 days or any lesser
period deemed appropriate by the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public
Projects in order to protect the health of the occupants and general welfare of
the public.
   (B) No dwelling, building, or structure which has been condemned and
placarded as unfit for human occupancy shall again be used for human occupancy
until written approval is secured from and such placard is removed by the City
Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects. The City Engineer and/or the
Director of Public Projects shall remove such placard whenever the defect or
defects on which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.24 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS.
   The City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects is authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of dwellings,
buildings, or structures located within the city, in order to perform the duty
of safe-guarding the health and safety of the occupants of dwelling and of the
general public. For the purpose of making such inspections, the City Engineer
and/or the Director of Public Projects is authorized to enter, examine, and
survey at proper times after a ten-day notice, all dwellings, buildings or
structures, or the person in charge thereof shall give the City Engineer and/or
the Director of Public Projects access to such dwelling, building, or structure
and its premises, at proper times after due notice, for the purpose of such
inspection, examination, and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling, building or
structure shall give the owner thereof or his agent or employee, access to any
part thereof or its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
§ 94.25 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects determines
that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of
any provision of this subchapter which affects the health of the occupants of
any dwelling, building, or structure, or the health and safety of the general
public, the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects shall give
notice of such alleged violation to the person or persons responsible therefor,
to owners, lessees, vendors, mortgagors, and all other persons having an
interest and to any known agent of such person, as hereinafter provided. Such
notice shall:
   (A) Be put in writing;
   (B) Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
   (C) Allow a l5-day period for the performance of any acts it requires
including repairs, alterations, and restoration, which period of time may be
extended by written notice from the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public
Projects; and
   (D) Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
§ 94.26 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Notice as provided for in §
94.25 shall be served on the owner or his agent, or the occupant, as the case
may require, provided that such notice shall be deemed to be properly served on
such owner or agent or occupant if a copy thereof is served on him personally,
or if a copy thereof is posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling
or building affected by the notice or if he is served with such notice by any
other method authorized or required under the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
§ 94.27 PERFORMANCE BY CITY ON OWNER'S NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If the owner, occupant, or anyone responsible for the condition and
maintenance of a dwelling, building, or structure refuses to comply with the
notice of the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects to make
repairs, alterations, or restorations on the dwelling or building structure, or
if in the opinion of the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects,
the above remedies would not be feasible, then the dwelling, building,
structure, or appurtenance thereto will be forthwith condemned and shall be
wrecked and removed either by the one affected or by the city or a
representative thereof.
The enforcement of this section shall be as set forth in the provisions of IC
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-7, as amended.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
§ 94.28 HEARING ON VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any such notice issued by the City Engineer
and/or the Director of Public Projects pursuant to §
94.25 may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Board
of Public Works and Safety, provided that such person shall file in the office
of the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects, within ten days
after service of the notice, a written petition requesting such hearing and
setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor. On receipt of such
petition, the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects shall
arrange a time and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written
notice thereof. Such hearing shall be held as soon as practicable after receipt
of request therefor. At such hearing the petitioner shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and to show cause why such notice should not be
complied with.
   (B) After such hearing the Board shall sustain, modify, or withdraw the
notice, depending on its findings as to whether the provisions of the
subchapter have been complied with. If the Board sustains or modifies such
notice, it shall be deemed to be an order. Any notice served pursuant to §
94.25 shall automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing
is not filed in the office of the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public
Projects within ten days after such notice is served.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
§ 94.29 RECORD OF HEARING.
   The proceedings of such hearings, including the findings and decision of the
Board, shall be summarized, reduced to writing, and entered as a matter of
public record in the office of the Board.Such record shall also include a copy
of every notice or order issued in connection with the matter.Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may seek relief therefrom in any court
of competent jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of the State.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
§ 94.30 EMERGENCY ORDER.
   Whenever the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects finds that
an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public
health and safety he may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting
the existence of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as
he deems necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions
of this subchapter, such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to
whom such an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but on
petition to the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects shall be
afforded a hearing within ten days, in the manner provided in §
94.28. After such hearing, depending upon the finding as to whether the
provisions of this subchapter have been complied with, the Board shall continue
such order in effect, modify it, or revoke it.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
§ 94.31 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; HIGHER STANDARD TO PREVAIL.
   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any health ordinance or code enacted by the Council and
existing on the effective date of this subchapter, the provision which
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health
of the people shall prevail.In any case where a provision of this subchapter is
found to be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code
existing within the limits of the city on the effective date of this
subchapter, which establishes a lower standard for the promotion and protection
of the health of the people, the provision of this subchapter shall be deemed
to prevail.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 3-17-77)
NUISANCES RESULTING FROM UNKEMPT PROPERTY
§ 94.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “GARBAGE.” All organic household waste, offal, animal and vegetable matter
prepared or intended for use as food, condemned foodstuffs and materials, and
substances, materials and things ordinarily disposed of in containers and
incinerators by hotels, restaurants, stores, hospitals, apartment houses, and
private dwellings.
   “NUISANCE VEGETATION.” Includes one or all of the following:
      (1)   Any grasses and/or weeds exceeding seven inches in height;
      (2)   Rank vegetation; and
      (3)   Any vegetation that obscures the visual clearance at street
intersections as established in the sight visibility requirements in the zoning
ordinance.
   “OWNER.” All persons, entities, or organizations who are responsible for the
payment of taxes on the real estate.
   “PROPERTY.” A lot or parcel of real estate including, in addition to those
within their respective boundaries, all of the grounds lying between the
property line and the improved portion of adjacent streets or alleys.
   “RANK VEGETATION.” Any vegetation, living or dead, that acts as a habitat
for mosquitoes, flies, bees, mice, snakes, rats, or other insects or animals
that pose a hazard to the public health.
   “TRASH.” All rubbish and refuse including, but not limited to, glass bottles
and containers, broken glass, beer and soft drink cans, rubber products,
metals, rags, household appliances, construction debris, and automotive parts.
   “VEGETATION.” Any plant life, including but not limited to molds, fungi,
algae, herbs, grasses, flowers, shrubs, bushes, and trees.
   “WEEDS.” Any grass-like vegetation, including but not limited to those that
bear seeds capable of being spread by the wind, poison ivy, poison oak,
thistles, wild carrot, straw, dandelion, cocklebur, barberry brush, ragweed,
and other like vegetation.
   “YARD WASTE.” Including but not limited to: grass clippings, garden waste,
tree limbs, and leaves.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord. 2013-3, passed 7-1-13; Am. Ord. 2020-7,
passed 9-8-20)
§ 94.41 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any lot within the corporate
limits of the city to allow, suffer, or permit any garbage, trash, yard waste,
or nuisance vegetation to be deposited on, grow on, or remain on any such lot
in a manner other than those exempted in §
94.42(A) or (B).
   (B)   Whenever and wherever garbage, trash, yard waste, or nuisance
vegetation exists on any lot within the corporate limits of the city which is
not exempted by this subchapter, the same shall be a public nuisance and a
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord. 2013-3, passed 7-1-13; Am. Ord. 2020-7,
passed 9-8-20)
§ 94.42 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The nuisance vegetation provisions of this subchapter shall not apply
to parcels used for the commercial growth of any agricultural products
including but not limited to corn, hay, wheat, or soybeans; nor shall it apply
to the keeping of pasture land. The nuisance vegetation provisions of this
subchapter shall also not apply to natural prairie lands or forests established
and maintained by a property owner based on a land management plan prepared or
certified by a registered landscape architect or other horticulture specialist.
Such fields, pastures, and natural lands shall not be maintained within 25 feet
of property lines where adjacent lots are used for residential purposes, shall
not obstruct visual clearance at intersections, and shall not be maintained
within 15 feet of the right-of-way of a public street or alley.
   (B)   The trash provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to artistic
and/or cultural displays sponsored by a recognized organization.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord. 2013-3, passed 7-1-13; Am. Ord. 2020-7,
passed 9-8-20)
§ 94.43 INSPECTION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the code enforcement official to cause from
time to time the inspection of various lots lying within the corporate limits
of the city. If it is found that garbage or trash is being permitted to be
deposited on such lots, a violation letter will be sent to the property owner
and/or current occupant stating it must be removed within ten days from the
date of the letter to correct the violation. If it is found that high grass
(over seven inches), yard waste, or nuisance vegetation is being permitted to
be grown on or deposited on such lots, a violation letter will be sent to the
property owner and/or current occupant stating it must be resolved within five
days.
   (B)   The code enforcement official shall not be required to provide
subsequent notices to owners of properties in violation if that property, under
the same ownership, has been the subject of a violation or notice in the
current calendar year. All subsequent occurrences shall be considered a failure
to abate and shall be remedied as described in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord. 2013-3, passed 7-1-13; Am. Ord. 2020-7,
passed 9-8-20; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 7-11-23)
§ 94.44 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   (A)   If any owner of any lot shall fail to remove or abate such garbage,
trash, yard waste, or nuisance vegetation after receiving notice, it shall be
the duty of the code enforcement official to cause the same to be removed or
otherwise abated by referring such action to the Street Department which shall
either remove the nuisance or contract with a private entity to accomplish such
removal. At the time of the removal, the Street Commissioner and or private
entity shall be prepared to provide the property owner with evidence of the
provision consistent with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   When the Street Commissioner has affected the removal of the nuisance,
a statement shall be prepared showing the cost of the work performed and shall
bill the owner of record. Such bill shall be due and payable at the time of its
receipt by the property owner and shall be calculated by (1) multiplying the
average hourly rate of Street Department employees involved in the removal of
the nuisance by 2.5 (to accommodate administrative costs) and then by the
number of hours each applied to the violation (in increments of no less than
one-quarter hour) and (2) adding to that figure any costs for rented equipment
or contracted labor required to complete the work. The minimum bill shall not
be less than $200 for each property.
   (C)   When the full amount due to the city is not paid by the owner within
30 days after the work has been performed, as provided in division (B) above,
then the Building Commissioner’s office, shall cause to be recorded in the
County Recorder’s office a sworn statement showing the cost and expense
incurred for the work, the date the work was completed, and the location of the
property on which the work was performed. The recordation of such sworn
statement shall constitute a lien and privilege on the property, and shall
remain in force and effect for the amount due on principal and interest, plus
costs of course, if any, for collection, until final payment has been made. The
costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by law for the
collection of real estate taxes and further shall be subject to a delinquent
penalty the same as real estate taxes in the event same is not paid in full on
or before the date the tax bill on which said charges appears delinquent. Sworn
statements recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima
fascia evidence that all legal formalities have been complied with and that the
work has been done properly and satisfactorily, and shall be full notice to
every person concerned that the property designated or described in the
statement and that the same is due and collectable as provided by law.
   (D)   When fees are collected for work completed, 25% of the collected funds
shall be placed into a non-reverting cumulative equipment fund established by
adoption of subchapter. The fees placed in such fund shall be used for the
replacement of equipment and supplies utilized in performing the aforementioned
tasks.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord. 2013-3, passed 7-1-13; Am. Ord. 2020-7,
passed 9-8-20)
§ 94.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any property owner who has received a notice or bill through the
provisions of this subchapter may appeal such action to the Board of Public
Works & Safety by completing and submitting a petition to appeal violation form
to the Building Commissioner at least seven days prior to the scheduled
meeting. The appeal needs to be filed within 30 days of the date of the letter.
The property owner would need to appear in person or through a representative
at the scheduled Board of Public Works & Safety meeting. The Board of Public
Works & Safety shall consider all appeals based on the presence of garbage,
trash, yard waste, or nuisance vegetation as defined in this ordinance. The
Board of Public Works & Safety may (1) interpret the definitions of the
ordinance relative to the condition of the subject property; (2) grant
extensions of the time provided for compliance; and (3) grant relief of any
bill resulting from work performed through the provisions of this subchapter.
The Board of Public Works & Safety may not exempt any property within the City
of Greensburg from complying with the terms of this subchapter.
   (B)   All abatement procedures shall be suspended pending the outcome of
appeals made by the property owners to the Board of Public Works & Safety.
However, upon a finding against the appeal by the Board of Public Works &
Safety, the property owner shall comply with the ordinance within 72 hours of
that finding. The minimum bill for work performed through this subchapter
following an unsuccessful appeal and continued failure to abate shall be $500.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord. 2013-3, passed 7-1-13; Am. Ord. 2020-7,
passed 9-8-20; Am. Ord. 2023-09, passed 7-11-23)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General
   
95.01   Unlawful deposits
   
95.02   Ice, snow, and water on sidewalks prohibited
   
95.03   Excavations by waterworks
   
95.04   Street signs
   
95.05   Playing ball in streets prohibited
   
95.06   Riding on sidewalks prohibited
   
95.07   Obstructing sidewalks
   
95.08   Private roads in the 911 address system
Construction and Repair
   
95.15   Resolution for construction and repair
   
95.16   Notice to property owners
   
95.17   Remonstrances
   
95.18   Appeal
   
95.19   Notice to construct
   
95.20   Performance by city on owner's noncompliance
   
95.21   Owner's liability to city
   
95.22   Street cut regulations
   
95.23   Exceptions
   
95.24   Permit required; fees
   
95.25   Surety bond required
   
95.26   Permit approval; restrictions
   
95.27   Forms and instructions; keeping bonds current
   
95.28   Repairs by permittee in lieu of fees
   
95.29   City to perform neglected work
   
95.30   Permit issuance; work stoppage; reporting violations
Café Use of Sidewalks
   
95.40   Purpose
   
95.41   Definitions
   
95.42   Registration required
   
95.43   Requirements of registration
   
95.44   Restriction on operation
   
95.45   Registration term, enforcement and renewal
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of use of public ways, see IC 36-9-2-7
GENERAL
§ 95.01 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit, permit to be deposited or permit to fall
from any vehicle, any garbage, refuse, or natural debris on any public street,
alley, walk, or public place in the city, except that this section shall not be
construed to prohibit the placing of garbage, refuse, and natural debris in a
container, or to prohibit the placing of natural debris and refuse too bulky to
place in a container, on or immediately adjacent to a street or alley
preparatory to having such material collected and disposed of by the city.
('76 Code, § 22-1)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.02 ICE, SNOW, AND WATER ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The occupant, or owner if there is no occupant, of every building or
lot within the city, fronting or bordering on any street, shall clean the
sidewalk in front of such building or lot of all snow or ice before 9:00 a.m.
each day, and keep the same clear of snow and ice.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building in the
city to collect the water from rain or melted snow which falls upon the roof of
such building, into a gutter or trough and cast it or allow it to be discharged
upon any public sidewalk in the city or to allow or permit such water to run or
drip upon any sidewalk in the city.
('76 Code, §§ 22-2, 22-3)(Ord. passed 3-5-1897)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.03 EXCAVATIONS BY WATERWORKS.
   (A)   The municipal waterworks shall not be required to pay to the city any
sum of money in regard to the cutting and excavating of the city's streets
during the repair, replacement, and new installation of water service and
pipelines in the city.
   (B)   The municipal waterworks shall fill and attend all excavations until
such excavations are ready for final paving, such final paving to be performed
by the city.
   (C)   All excavations as made by the municipal waterworks shall be reported
to the Street Commissioner.
('76 Code, § 22-4)(Ord. 1945-5, passed 11-5-45)
Cross-reference:
   Excavations, see §
51.01
§ 95.04 STREET SIGNS.
   Street signs shall be erected in areas hereafter annexed to the city when
ordered by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
('76 Code, § 22-6)(Ord. 1969-16, passed 11-3-69)
§ 95.05 PLAYING BALL IN STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in ball playing on the
streets, alleys, or public places in the city, either by throwing, batting,
striking, or kicking any ball.
('76 Code, § 22-5)(Ord. passed 6-1-1894)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.06 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any bicycle, tandem, or
motorcycle on or over any sidewalk or pavement intended solely for pedestrian
travel within the city.
('76 Code, § 22-18)(Ord. passed 3-6-11)
Penalty, see § 95.99
Cross-reference:
   Bicycles, see
Ch. 73
§ 95.07 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No persons shall display merchandise or signs, or place any
obstructions on any sidewalk in the city that will block or occupy more than
one-half the width of the sidewalk.
   (B)   Nothing shall be permitted near intersections so as to obstruct
vision, hearing, or interfere with pedestrian or vehicular safety, and nothing
will be permitted where it will interfere with the use of adjoining property.
(Ord. 1983-10, passed 11-7-83)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.08 PRIVATE ROADS IN THE 911 ADDRESS SYSTEM.
   (A)   No private road in any site plan, planned development or subdivision
development shall be named or renamed without the approval of the Common
Council of the city.
   (B)   Only the Common Council of the city can change the name of a private
road previously recorded or platted and such renaming should only be done by
the Council to:
      (1)   Avoid confusion;
      (2)   Avoid duplication of road names;
      (3)   Improve identity of location; or
      (4)   Improve traffic flow within the city.
   (C)   Once a road, street or house has been addressed within the 911
addressing system or named within a site plan, planned development or
subdivision development, the only method by which a change can occur shall be
to have that issue presented to the Common Council of the city.
   (D)   No change of name of any road, street or private drive shall be valid
unless approved by the city.
(Ord. 2003-9, passed 6-2-03)
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 95.15 RESOLUTION FOR CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   Whenever any sidewalk is required to be built or repaired within the city,
the Board of Public Works and Safety may adopt a resolution therefor, and
designate in such resolution the kind of sidewalk to be constructed or the
nature of the improvement or repairs to be made.
('76 Code, § 22-25) (Ord. 1963-6, passed 8-26-63)
§ 95.16 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   In addition to publication pursuant to IC 5-3-1-1 through 5-3-1-9,
notice of the adoption of a resolution pursuant to
§ 96.15 shall be given to the property owners whose lands abut the sidewalk
which is to be constructed or repaired. Such notice shall be written or printed
and shall be served by the Chief of Police on such landowners in person,
however, if any such landowners shall not be found by the Chief of Police
within the city, the Chief of Police shall post on the land of such absent
owners, at or near the places where the sidewalk is to be built, improved, or
repaired, a copy of such notice, and the giving of such notice as above
provided shall be sufficient as the notice required by law to be given.
   (B)   Such notice shall fix a time, not less than ten days after the service
or posting thereof as above provided, at which time the owner or owners of such
land or lands may appear before the Board and remonstrate against the
construction, improvement, or repair of such sidewalk. Such remonstrance shall
be in writing signed by such landowner.
('76 Code, § 22-26) (Ord. 1963-6, passed 8-26-63)
§ 95.17 REMONSTRANCES.
   The remonstrance referred to in §
96.16 shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer not later than two days prior to
the time fixed in the notice for the hearing of the remonstrance, and, if not
filed within that time, shall not thereafter be filed. At the time fixed in
such notice, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall meet and consider any
remonstrance so filed, and shall either overrule or sustain such remonstrance.
If such remonstrance be sustained, such proceedings shall be dismissed. If such
remonstrance be overruled, the Board shall thereupon enter an order that such
sidewalk shall be constructed, improved, or repaired as ordered in the
resolution.
('76 Code, § 22-27) (Ord. 1963-6, passed 8-26-63)
§ 95.18 APPEAL.
   Any remonstrator feeling aggrieved by the action of the Board of Public
Works and Safety in overruling his remonstrance may, within ten days after such
action by the Board, and not later, appeal from that decision to the circuit
court of the county, and until such appeal has been determined, no further
proceedings affecting the appellant in such matter shall be had by the Board.
('76 Code, § 22-28) (Ord. 1963-6, passed 8-26-63)
§ 95.19 NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT.
   If no remonstrance has been filed against the required construction,
improvement, or repair of a sidewalk under this subchapter, or if such
remonstrance has been filed and the same has been overruled and no appeal has
been taken within the time limited in this subchapter, or if an appeal has been
taken and the same has not been sustained by the court to which it was taken,
the Board of Public Works and Safety shall, by written or printed notices
served in the manner set out in this subchapter for the service of notice of
the adoption of a resolution for the construction, improvement, or repair of a
sidewalk, notify the owner of the land abutting the sidewalk in question to
construct, improve, or repair the same in accordance with such resolution,
within 30 days from the service or posting of such notice.
('76 Code, § 22-29) (Ord. 1963-6, passed 8-26-63)
§ 95.20 PERFORMANCE BY CITY ON OWNER'S NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Should any owner of land abutting a sidewalk, in regard to which a notice
has been issued, fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with such notice and cause
such sidewalk to be constructed, improved, or repaired, in accordance with this
subchapter within 30 days, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall proceed
with arrangements for and effect construction, prepare necessary assessment
rolls as to the cost thereof and provide for the optional payment for such
improvement by the property holder in ten equal installments.
('76 Code, § 22-30) (Ord. 1963-6, passed 8-26-63)
§ 95.21 OWNER'S LIABILITY TO CITY.
   A property owner neglecting to comply with the notice in §
95.19 to build or repair a sidewalk, shall be liable to the city for all
damages which shall be recovered against the city for any accidents or injuries
occurring by reason of such neglect.
('76 Code, § 22-31) (Ord. 1963-6, passed 8-26-63)
§ 95.22 STREET CUT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All persons cutting any public right-of-way, either improved or
unimproved for any purpose, must obtain a permit from the Office of the Plan
Director, in accordance with the following regulations:
      (1)   Permit fee shall be $35.
      (2)   A permit must be obtained prior to the start of any construction
along with a traffic control plan showing the location cut barricades and the
routing of traffic.
      (3)   The applicant agrees to promptly restore the road surface right-of-
way, or any other property disturbed by the work of the applicant in as good
condition or better as it was prior to the time performing the work, and to the
satisfaction of the city, more specifically.
         (a)   Openings shall be cut with straight, neat lines.
         (b)   Openings shall be backfilled and compacted with #53 or #63
stone.
         (c)   Eight inches of cement to be uniformly poured over stone.
         (d)   Two inches of asphaltic materials shall be compacted over
properly cured cement.
         (e)   All specification shall be submitted in writing and approved by
the Plan Director or Street Commissioner and any recommendations of the Street
Commissioner shall be a condition to the permit.
   (B)   The applicant is responsible for all maintenance costs arising as a
result of the work for 30 days.
   (C)   The applicant will perform the work for which this permit is issued in
a skillful and careful manner, to properly and fully guard and protect all
excavations and dangerous places, to erect and light all necessary barricades
and signage, and to provide the appropriate flagmen. The applicant also agrees
to notify the city of any partial or total street closings.
   (D)   The applicant agrees to pay and assume all liability for any and all
damages to persons or property resulting from the work in any manner whatsoever
and to fully indemnify and save harmless the city from any payment of any such
damages or judgment for same.
(Ord. 1982-2, passed 4-5-82; Am. Ord. 2000-7, passed 6-5-00)
§ 95.23 EXCEPTIONS.
   The sections of this chapter shall not apply to the officers or employees of
the city when prosecuting any work by order of or under the direction of the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 4-5-10)
§ 95.24 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to cut, dig or excavate in any part of
any street or alley right-of-way within the city, except for the purpose of
making installations therein under contract with the city, without first filing
with the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects or Street
Superintendent a written application for a permit to make such a cut or
excavation at least three days in advance of the time of beginning the work to
be done under such permit, except, that when an emergency exists, the applicant
may secure such permit in less than such three-day period by stating in his
application the exact emergency. All permits shall be submitted to and be
approved by the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects or Street
Superintendent prior to being filed with the Clerk-Treasurer. Such application
shall particularly describe the exact location, kind, dimension by feet and
inches, type of road surface to be cut or excavated, nature of the opening to
be made and the exact purpose of the proposed work.
   (B)   All applicants must pay a $35 permit and inspection fee at the time
the permit is filed. The permit shall be valid for 90 days after approval is
given by the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects or Street
Superintendent.
   (C)   Any and all work performed within the street or alley right- of-way in
connection with such excavations, such as forcing pipe under pavement, trenches
between the curb and sidewalks or trenches outside the paved macadam, oiled or
stone surfaces of a street or alley are covered by this chapter and shall
require a permit.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 4-5-10)
§ 95.25 SURETY BOND REQUIRED.
   As a part of the written application, the applicant shall have on file in
the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer an approved undertaking and surety bond
in the amount of $2,000 wherein such applicant agrees to do the following:
   (A)   Maintain the road surface which has been disturbed in a smooth and
uniform condition for a period of one year after traffic is again permitted to
pass over such filled trench or maintain the area cut outside the pavement
surface but within the right-of-way to a condition similar to the immediate
surrounding area for a period of one year, such maintenance to meet the
approval of the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects or Street
Commissioner.
   (B)   Erect and maintain all necessary barricades, detour signs, warning
signals and lights by dusk (in conformance with the Federal Highway
Administration’s Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices — latest edition)
required to safely direct traffic over or around the place where such work is
being done, so long as the work in any way interferes with traffic (signage
will not be provided by the city’s street department).
   (C)   Take all responsibility for any injury or damage resulting to persons
or property because of such work.
   (D)   Conspicuously display at the site of the street opening the name and
address of the person to whom the permit has been issued, so long as the hole
is open or barricades are in place.
   (E)   Give notice to the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public
Projects or street commissioner prior to every day that excavations are being
opened in such rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 4-5-10)
§ 95.26 PERMIT APPROVAL; RESTRICTIONS.
   The approval of a permit to cut into a street or alley does not authorize
entry into a public sewer or drain or prejudice the city's right to require the
removal or relocations of structures, wire, pipes or appurtenances installed in
connection with such permit.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 4-5-10)
§ 95.27 FORMS AND INSTRUCTIONS; KEEPING BONDS CURRENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Public Works and Safety to have printed
such forms and instructions as are required for the administration of this
chapter. It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to require all persons
making application for a permit under the terms of this chapter to post and
keep current the bonds required herein.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 4-5-10)
§ 95.28 REPAIRS BY PERMITTEE IN LIEU OF FEES.
   Any person upon application to and approval by the Board of Public Works and
Safety may, in lieu of payment of fees to cover street repairs, make such
repairs with their own forces; provided, that such person makes the repairs in
accordance with standards prescribed by such board, and posts and keeps in
effect a performance bond in an amount of not less than $2,000, but equal to
the estimated cost of repairs to be made by such person for the calendar year
beginning at the time of application. The performance bond shall cover a two-
year period and shall guarantee the repairs to perform satisfactorily for a
period of one year, and be and shall remain in effect for a period of one year
after date of last repairs. Upon approval of such application, the board shall
issue to the applicant a written permit to make street repairs for a period of
one year after date of last repairs. Upon approval of such application, the
Board shall issue to the applicant a written permit to make street repairs for
a period not exceeding twelve calendar months. This permit shall not exempt the
permittee from any of the requirements of this chapter except payment of street
repair charges.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 4-5-10)
§ 95.29 CITY TO PERFORM NEGLECTED WORK.
   Failure to backfill properly or maintain surface during the maintenance
period shall be sufficient cause without citation for city forces to perform
the neglected work and charge the permittee the reasonable cost thereof or
invoke said security bond.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 4-5-10)
§ 95.30 PERMIT ISSUANCE; WORK STOPPAGE; REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   One copy of each permit shall be issued to the following individuals: The
applicant, the Clerk-Treasurer and the City Engineer and/or the Director of
Public Projects or Street Superintendent. It is the specific duty of the City
Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects, Street Superintendent or his
or her designee to stop any work which is being performed when it does not
comply with the terms and conditions of this chapter or the conditions
stipulated on the permit, and report such noncompliance to the Board of Public
Works and Safety for further action.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 4-5-10)
CAFÉ USE OF SIDEWALKS
§ 95.40 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to benefit the residents of the city as
a whole by identifying sidewalk café outdoor dining and promoting pedestrian
traffic in commercial areas, enhancing the attractiveness of the downtown
business zone; and making beverages and food conveniently available for members
of the public, without creating a health or safety hazard or inconveniencing
pedestrians.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 7-6-06)
§ 95.41 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section.
   "ABUTTING BUSINESS PROPERTY." Any real property which is used for retail
business, which abuts (but is not located in) the public sidewalk area.
   "CAFÉ ACTIVITY." The retail sale of non-alcoholic beverages or food, or the
provision of a place for the consumption of beverages or food.
   "CAFÉ AREA." The area used for café activity and shall include the sidewalk
area from the abutting business property extending toward the curb which
provides both adequate seating capacity and effective walkway width of the
public sidewalk area.
   "EFFECTIVE WALKWAY WIDTH." That portion of the sidewalk in the public
sidewalk area that is reasonably available for use by the pedestrian stream to
move unencumbered through the area.
   "PUBLIC SIDEWALK AREA." A sidewalk area located in the public right-of-way
or in an area in which the public has an easement for sidewalk purposed, or
both.
   "SEATING CAPACITY." For consumption of non-alcoholic beverages or food shall
be limited by a 2:1 ratio (two seats per each linear foot of building
frontage).
   "SIDEWALK SALES AREA." The portion of the public sidewalk which has been
registered with the Board of Public Works and Safety for the purpose of
providing a café area.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 7-6-06)
§ 95.42 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in café activity on a
public sidewalk area without first obtaining a certificate of registration from
the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to approve a
registration of a business to use a sidewalk sales area situated immediately
next to the abutting business property for the sole purpose fo engaging in café
activity.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 7-6-06) Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.43 REQUIREMENTS OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   A business which desires to register to use a sidewalk sales area for
café activity shall submit a written request for registration to the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall approve and issue a
certificate of registration if the subsequent requirements are met:
      (1)   The applicant shall be actively engaged in a retail business
involving the sale of beverages or food in the abutting business property. The
beverages or food sold in the café area must also be sold in the retail
business, and the square footage of the proposed café area must not exceed the
total square footage of the abutting retail business.
      (2)   The public sidewalk area immediately next to the abutting business
property of the registrant shall be at least six feet from the curb edge.
      (3)   Applicable permits required by the Board of Health shall have been
secured and must be adhered to. Additionally, all promulgated rules of the
Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission shall be adhered to.
      (4)   Proposed equipment necessary to conduct café activity (for example,
tables, chairs, carts, and the like) will be temporary in nature so they can
easily be removed from the public sidewalk area during non-business hours and/
or off-season time periods.
      (5)   The applicant will provide a document and proof of insurance
liability on an annual basis which agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the
city for losses or expenses arising out of the operation of a café area on a
public sidewalk.
      (6)   An illustration for placement of equipment in café area will be
submitted with the request of registration.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 7-6-06) Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.44 RESTRICTION ON OPERATION.
   (A)   Beverages or food sold in the café area of a public sidewalk shall be
provided only for consumption in the sidewalk sales area, or in the abutting
business property.
   (B)   Provision shall be made to assure the sidewalk will not be littered,
including placement of adequate trash receptacles.
   (C)   Sales of beverages or food may not be made to a person in or on any
motorized vehicle.
   (D)   No equipment shall be located in any part of the street, median or
alley way which would in any way obstruct the flow of, or impede the vision of,
vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Pedestrians shall not be exposed to any undue safety or health hazard
nor shall a public nuisance be created.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 7-6-06) Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.45 REGISTRATION TERM, ENFORCEMENT AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   A certificate of registration under this subchapter shall be valid for
a period of one year from the date of issuance.
   (B)   Inspections may be conducted at the discretion of the Board of Public
Works and Safety, or by its appointee or agent. Violations of any restrictions
of operation may lead to the Board suspending the registration pending
consideration of further action.
   (C)   A certificate of registration may be revoked by the Board of Public
Works and Safety if documented violations deem necessary.
   (D)   Renewal for a certificate of registration for café activity shall be
granted upon written request within 30 days of expiration providing no
violations have occurred during the term of existing registration.
   (E)   Renewal, or reconsideration for a revoked certificate of registration
for café activity will be considered, then granted or denied at the discretion
of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 7-6-06)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
95.07 shall be fined not more than $50. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Public Works and Safety to direct
the Clerk-Treasurer to assess penalties as set forth herein in those cases
which are not performed in compliance with §§
95.15 et seq. The penalty for noncompliance of the provisions of §§
95.15 et seq. shall be $500 per day of noncompliance.
(Ord. 1983-10, passed 11-7-83; Am. Ord. 2010-5, passed 4-5-10)
CHAPTER 96: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
Owner's Responsibility
   
96.01   Owner's duty to trim
   
96.02   Inspection
   
96.03   Notice to owner to trim
   
96.04   Service of notice to trim
   
96.05   Performance by city on owner's noncompliance
   
96.06   Duty of utility company to trim
City Tree Committee
   
96.15   Definitions
   
96.16   Establishment
   
96.17   Term of office
   
96.18   Compensation
   
96.19   Duties and responsibilities
   
96.20   Operation
Planting and Maintenance
   
96.30   Street tree species to be planted
   
96.31   Spacing
   
96.32   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
96.33   Distance from street corners and fire hydrants
   
96.34   Utilities
   
96.35   Public tree care
   
96.36   Tree topping
   
96.37   Pruning, corner clearance
   
96.38   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
96.39   Removal of stumps
   
96.40   Interference with City Tree Committee
   
96.41   Review by Council
 
   
96.99   Penalty
OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY
§ 96.01 OWNER'S DUTY TO TRIM.
   The owner of shade trees or other trees within the corporate limits of the
city shall:
   (A)   Trim away all limbs and branches thereof within a distance of 12 feet
from the ground; and
   (B)   Trim the tops of and cut away all limbs and branches of trees situated
along any street or alley and adjacent to any high tension wires or electric
lines carrying more than 3,500 volts of electricity, so that there shall be not
less than ten feet clearance between the tops of such trees and any high
tension wire or electric line.
('76 Code, § 24-1) (Ord. passed 12-1-24; Am. Ord. passed 5-6-26)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.02 INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner or the official or employee
of the city performing the duties of Street Commissioner, to make a careful
inspection of all lots, grounds, streets, and alleys situated within the city
for the purpose of determining whether or not shade trees or other trees are
trimmed and branches cut off within the distance required by §
96.01.
('76 Code, § 24-2) (Ord. passed 12-1-24; Am. Ord. passed 5-6-26)
§ 96.03 NOTICE TO OWNER TO TRIM.
   Whenever the Street Commissioner shall discover any lot, ground, street, or
alley where the owner has failed, neglected, or refused to trim trees as
required by
§ 96.01, he shall serve a written notice on the owner of such lot or ground, or
on the agent representing such owner, directing that the trees in question
shall be trimmed and the branches thereof cut away as required in §
96.01.
('76 Code, § 24-3) (Ord. passed 12-1-24; Am. Ord. passed 5-6-26)
§ 96.04 SERVICE OF NOTICE TO TRIM.
   (A)   The notice provided for in §
96.03 shall be served either personally on the owner of the lot or real estate
where such trees are situated or by leaving a copy thereof at his last and
usual place of residence, and the original thereof, with the time of service
entered thereon, shall be returned by the Street Commissioner to the City
Clerk-Treasurer and shall be made a matter of record by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   In case such owner is unknown or is not a resident of the city and
does not have an agent in charge of such lot or real estate, the Street
Commissioner shall cause a notice to be published in a daily newspaper of
general circulation for one day each week for two consecutive weeks.
('76 Code, § 24-4) (Ord. passed 12-1-24; Am. Ord. passed 5-6-26)
§ 96.05 PERFORMANCE BY CITY ON OWNER'S NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If the owner of property on whom the notice provided for in §
96.03 has been served fails to trim his trees within ten days from the date of
the service or the last day of publication, the Street Commissioner shall cause
such work to be done by the proper officer or employee of the city. An itemized
statement of the cost thereof shall be kept by such officer, and the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall certify the cost of trimming such trees and shall place
the same on the tax duplicate as a charge against the owner of such lot or
grounds, which cost shall constitute a lien against such real estate and shall
be collected by the Clerk-Treasurer at the same time and in the same manner as
other assessments and taxes for the city are collected.
('76 Code, § 24-5) (Ord. passed 12-1-24; Am. Ord. passed 5-6-26)
§ 96.06 DUTY OF UTILITY COMPANY TO TRIM.
   After trees have been trimmed as required in §
96.01 (B), it shall be the duty of the utility owning, operating, and
maintaining the high tension or electric line along the street and adjacent to
such trees to keep such trees trimmed in the manner as provided for in §
96.01 (B) at the expense of the utility. The utility is charged with the duty
and obligation of keeping and maintaining such trees as provided for in §
96.01 (B), free of expense to the property owners, after such trees have been
trimmed in the first instance in the manner and form as provided.
('76 Code, § 24-6) (Ord. passed 5-6-26)
CITY TREE COMMITTEE
§ 96.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PARK TREES." Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   "STREET TREES." Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
§ 96.16 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Committee which shall
consist of three members; one shall be appointed by the Mayor, one by the
Common Council and the other member will be the City Engineer and/or the
Director of Public Projects.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
§ 96.17 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the one person to be appointed by the Mayor shall be one year
and the term of one member of the Committee shall be for two years. The term of
the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects will be at the will of
the Mayor. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his successor shall be appointed for their unexpired portion of the
term.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
§ 96.18 COMPENSATION.
   Each member of the Committee shall receive $20 per meeting and there will be
no more than five meetings a year.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
§ 96.19 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Committee to study, investigate,
counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for
the care, preservation, pruning, planting, removal or disposition of trees and
shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such plan will be
presented annually to the Common Council and upon their acceptance and approval
shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the city. The
Committee, when requested by the Council, shall consider, investigate, make
findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of question coming
within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
§ 96.20 OPERATION.
   The Committee shall make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of
its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE
§ 96.30 SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The following list constitutes the official street tree species for the
city. No species other than those included in this list may be planted as
street trees without written permission of the City Tree Committee.
Small Trees Medium Trees Large Trees
Small Trees                   Medium Trees            Large Trees
Apricot                       Ash, Green              Coffee Tree
Crabapple                     Hackberry               Kentucky
Flowering (sp)                Honeylocust (thornless) Maple, Silver
Golden Rain Tree              Linden or Basswood (sp) Maple, Hard
Hawthorne (sp)                Mulberry, Red        Oak, Bur
Pear, Bradford                (fruitless, male)       Sycamore
Redbud                                                Oak, English
Soapberry                     Oak, Red                London plantree
Lilac, Japanese Tree                                  Pagodatree, Japanese
Peach, Flowering                                      Birch, River
Plum, Purpleleaf Serviceberry                         Poplar, White
 
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.31 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in §
96.30, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in
special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.32 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
96.30, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, 2 feet; medium trees, 3 feet; and large trees, 4 feet.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.33 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fire hydrant.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.34 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
96.30 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.35 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (B)   The City Tree Committee may remove or cause or order to be removed,
any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition, which by reason of
its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water
lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus,
insect or other pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of street
trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of
said trees is in accordance with §§
96.30 through
96.34.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.36 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this subchapter at the determination of the City Tree Committee.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.37 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   The city shall be responsible for any tree overhanging any street or right-
of-way within the city and shall prune the branches so that such branches shall
not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the
surface of the street or sidewalk. The city shall remove all dead, diseased or
dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the
safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any trees or
shrubs on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light
along the street from a street light or interferes with visibility of any
traffic-control device or sign.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.38 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitutes a
potential threat to other trees within the city. The City Tree Committee will
notify in writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said
owners at their own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice.
In the event of failure of owners to comply with such provision, the city shall
have the authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the
owner's property tax notice.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.39 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.40 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE COMMITTEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Committee, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.41 REVIEW BY COUNCIL.
   The Common Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the City Tree Committee. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the City Tree Committee to the Common Council who may hear the matter
and make final decision.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $l,000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
96.30 through
96.40 shall be, upon conviction or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to
exceed $50.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 2-1-93)
CHAPTER 97: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   State law adopted
   
97.03   Responsibilities of the Police Department and the Department of Public
Works
   
97.04   Definitions
   
97.05   Exceptions
   
97.06   Responsibility of owner
   
97.07   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
97.08   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
97.09   Demolition derby cars
   
97.10   Junk cars
   
97.11   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
97.12   Maximum towing and storage charges
   
97.13   Towing contracts
   
97.14   Liability for loss or damage
   
97.15   Abandoned vehicle account
Statutory reference:
   Removal and disposal of abandoned vehicles see IC 9-22-1-1 et seq.
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   The Common Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard. The Police Department is given the responsibility for
removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05)
§ 97.02 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   All terms and provisions of the state abandoned vehicle provisions, IC 9-13-
2-1 et seq., are adopted as applicable to and within the corporate limits of
the city.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05)
§ 97.03 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
WORKS.
   The Police Department and/or the Department of Public Works shall be charged
with the responsibility for the removal, storage and disposal of abandoned
vehicles which have been declared abandoned pursuant to this chapter and IC 9-
22-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 6-2-19)
§ 97.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ABANDONED VEHICLE.”
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally with or without
current license plates.
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days.
      (3)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours.
      (4)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission, or differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property.
      (5)   A vehicle that has been removed by an authorized towing service
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter if the vehicle once impounded is not claimed or redeemed by the owner
or his or her agent within 15 days of its removal.
      (6)   A vehicle that is three or more model years old; and/or
mechanically inoperable; and/or unlicensed; and is left on private property
continuously in a location visible from public property for more than 20 days.
   “AUTHORIZED TOWING SERVICE.” A business that engages in moving or removing
disabled vehicles, and, once removed, to store or impound vehicles.
   “AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD.” A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
   “BUREAU.” The Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   “ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” A code enforcement officer of the city.
   “INOPERABLE VEHICLE.” Any vehicle typically powered by an engine that is
partially dismantled, mechanically inoperable, or unsafe to drive. An
“INOPERABLE VEHICLE” may include, but is not limited to, vehicles with missing
wheels and/or flat tires, or significant collision damage that would render the
vehicle unsafe to drive.
   “OFFICER.” A member of the Police Department.
   “OWNER.” The last known record titleholder of a vehicle according to the
records of the Bureau under IC 9-22-1 et seq.
   “PARTS.” All components of a vehicle that as assembled do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   “PRIVATE PROPERTY.” All property other than public property.
   “PUBLIC PROPERTY.” A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county, or municipal property.
   “UNLICENSED VEHICLE.” Any vehicle that is not currently registered and does
not have a license plate displaying the current registration sticker on the
vehicle in a manner described in IC 9-18.1 et seq.
   “VEHICLE.” An automobile, motorcycle, scooter, truck, trailer, semi-trailer,
tractor, bus, school bus, recreational vehicle, or motor home.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05; Am. Ord. 2019-12,
passed 6-2-19)
§ 97.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways.
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment.
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility.
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard.
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under IC 9-13-2-1 as an antique
vehicle.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05)
§ 97.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and is
liable, to the extent of the market value of the vehicle, for all of the costs
incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle or its parts.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05)
§ 97.07 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner and the person cannot establish his or her right to the
possession of that vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall be notified within 72 hours
of the location and description of the vehicle. Upon receipt of notification,
the Bureau shall cause a search to be made to determine and notify the owner.
   (B)   If the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined, the Bureau shall
declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for its disposal in accordance with
this chapter.
   (C)   If the properly identified owner or lienholder appears at the site of
storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all proper costs
incurred against it at that time, then the vehicle or parts shall be sent to
the Bureau. The release must contain the owner or lienholder's signature, name,
address, vehicle or parts description, costs, and date of release.
   (D)   If the vehicle is not released to the owner or lienholder, the Bureau
shall declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for disposal in accordance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05)
§ 97.08 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall
attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following information.
      (1)   The date, time, officer's name, city police department, and address
and telephone number to contact for information.
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned.
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours.
      (4)   That the owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to
the removal, storage, and disposal, and if not paid the owner's registration
privileges will be suspended on that car.
      (5)   That the owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts
within 72 hours.
   (B)   If the tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within that 72-hour
period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the
vehicle or parts including information on the condition, missing parts, and
other facts that might substantiate that the market value is less than $100.
Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
   (C)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $100, the officer shall immediately dispose of
the vehicle to an automobile scrap yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report
and photographs relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles. The Police Department shall retain the original
records and photographs for at least two years.
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is $100 or more, the officer, before placing a notice tag on
the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the owner or
person who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours, the
officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage area.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05)
§ 97.09 DEMOLITION DERBY CARS.
   Vehicles in an operable condition specifically adapted or constructed for
exclusive operation on privately owned raceways, or parts thereof, shall not be
stored on private or public property unless stored inside a closed structure
out of public view. Demolition derby cars that are scheduled to participate in
the Decatur County Fair or any other special event(s) to take place at the
Decatur County Fairgrounds, are exempted from this provision for a three-week
period beginning seven days prior to the start of the Decatur County Fair and/
or event, and ending seven days subsequent to the end of the Decatur County
Fair and/or event.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 6-2-19)
§ 97.10 JUNK CARS.
   It is unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle without current
license plates or in an inoperable condition on private property unless stored
inside a closed structure out of public view.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 6-2-19)
§ 97.11 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Within 72 hours after removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage
area under this chapter, the Police Department shall prepare and forward to the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles an abandoned vehicle report containing a description
of the vehicle including the make, model, engine number, if any, identification
number, and the number of the license plate, and request that the Bureau advise
the Police Department of the name and most recent mailing address of the owner
and any lienholder.
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with IC 9-13-2-
1.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05; Am. Ord. 2019-12,
passed 6-2-19)
§ 97.12 MAXIMUM TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   The maximum amount that an authorized towing service may charge for towing
or removing a vehicle under this chapter shall not exceed $75 except where
special equipment is required. The maximum amount that may be charged for
storage shall not exceed $5 per day.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05; Am. Ord. 2019-12,
passed 6-2-19)
§ 97.13 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts or vehicles
declared public nuisances, the Police Department may enter into towing
contracts or agreements for the removal and storage of abandoned vehicles and
parts.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05; Am. Ord. 2019-12,
passed 6-2-19)
§ 97.14 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Neither the owner, lessee, or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed nor the Police Department, authorized
towing service, or automobile scrap yard is liable for loss or damage to the
vehicle or parts occurring during its removal, storage, or disposition.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05; Am. Ord. 2019-12,
passed 6-2-19)
§ 97.15 ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   There is created a revolving fund which shall be known as the “Abandoned
Vehicle Account of the City of Greensburg, Indiana,” in accordance with IC 9-
13-2-1, and the Clerk-Treasurer is directed to place all moneys paid to the
city by owners for the costs of removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned
vehicles in such fund.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 6-6-05; Am. Ord. 2019-12,
passed 6-2-19)
CHAPTER 98: SHOPPING CENTERS
Section
   
98.01   Parking, traffic regulations authorized
   
98.02   Restrictions on alcoholic beverages
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PARKING, TRAFFIC REGULATIONS AUTHORIZED.
   The city shall be authorized to enter into contracts with the owners or
lessees of shopping centers within the city limits to regulate parking and
traffic as authorized by IC 9-21-18-4.
(Ord. 1985-16, passed ll-4-85)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.02 RESTRICTIONS ON ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, dispense, consume, or have any opened
container containing any alcoholic beverage of any type in or on the certain
shopping center parking lots located in the city where a written contract has
been entered into between the owners of those lots and the city pursuant to IC
9-21-18-4.
(Ord. 1985-16, passed ll-4-85)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for violations of the regulations as set forth in the
contracts authorized by §
98.01 shall be as follows:
      (1)   Any unauthorized vehicle using the parking area after the posted
closing hours, shall be deemed in violation of the regulations and the operator
or the owner shall be assessed a fine of not less than $30 and not more than
$100.
      (2)   Any vehicle failing to obey the posted speed limit or traffic signs
shall be deemed in violation of the regulations of the contract and the
operator or the owner shall be fined not less than $50 and not more than
$l,000.
      (3)   Any large commercial truck or semi-truck parking in prohibited
areas shall be deemed in violation of the regulations of the contract and the
operator or the owner shall be fined not less than $25 and not more than $500.
      (4)   Any vehicle parking in the designated fire lane shall be deemed in
violation of the regulations of the contract and the operator or the owner
shall be fined not less than $25 and not more than $500.
(Ord. 1985-16, passed ll-4-85)
   (B)   Any person found violating any provision of §
98.02 shall be fined in an amount up to $l,000.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 7-1-85)
CHAPTER 99: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Grant
   
99.03   Term
   
99.04   Conditions of street occupancy
   
99.05   Restoration of public ways
   
99.06   Safety requirements
   
99.07   Franchise fee; renewal; transfer
   
99.08   Insurance requirements
   
99.09   Notice of violation; notice; acts of God;
Rate Regulations
   
99.15   Adoption of regulations; definition
   
99.16   Public hearing; notice
   
99.17   Review period
   
99.18   Cost-of-service showing
   
99.19   Decision of Council
   
99.20   Refund
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CABLE SYSTEM." A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths
and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment or other
communications equipment that is designed to provide cable service and other
service to subscribers.
   "FRANCHISE AUTHORITY." The city, or the lawful successor, transferee, or
assignee thereof.
   "GRANTEE." TCI of Indiana, Inc., or the lawful successor, transferee, or
assignee thereof.
   "GROSS REVENUES." The monthly cable service revenues received by the grantee
from subscribers of the cable system; provided, however, that such phrase shall
not include revenues received from any national advertising carried on the
cable system, nor shall such phrase include any taxes on cable service which
are imposed directly or indirectly on any subscriber thereof by any
governmental unit or agency, and which are collected by the grantee on behalf
of such governmental unit or agency.
   "PUBLIC WAY." The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk,
parkway, way, lane, drive, circle, or other public right-of-way, including, but
not limited to, public utility easements, dedicated utility strips, or rights-
of-way dedicated for compatible uses, and any temporary or permanent fixtures
or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by the franchise
authority in the city which shall entitle the franchise authority and the
grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of installing, operating, repairing,
and maintaining the cable system.
(Ord. 1987-14, passed 10-5-87; Am. Ord. 2003-18, passed 10-5-03)
§ 99.02 GRANT.
   The city hereby grants to the grantee a nonexclusive franchise to construct
and operate a cable system in, along, among, upon, across, above, over, under,
or in any manner connected with public ways within the city and for that
purpose to erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain,
or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across, or along any public way and all
extensions thereof and additions thereto, such poles, wires, cables,
conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments, and other related property or equipment as may be
necessary or appurtenant to the cable system.
(Ord. 1987-14, passed 10-5-87; Am. Ord. 2003-18, passed 10-5-03)
§ 99.03 TERM.
   The franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be for an initial term
of ten years from its passage and final adoption.
(Ord. 1987-14, passed 10-5-87; Am. Ord. 2003-18, passed 10-5-03)
§ 99.04 CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   All transmission and distribution structures, poles, other lines, and
equipment installed or erected by the grantee pursuant to the terms hereof
shall be located so as to cause a minimum of interference with the proper use
of public ways and with the rights and reasonable convenience of property
owners who own property that adjoins any of these public ways.
(Ord. 1987-14, passed 10-5-87; Am. Ord. 2003-18, passed 10-5-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 99.05 RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   If, during the course of the grantee's construction, operation, or
maintenance of the cable system, there occurs a disturbance of any public way
by the grantee, it shall, at its own expense, replace and restore such public
way to a condition reasonably comparable to the condition of the public way
existing immediately prior to such disturbance.
(Ord. 1987-14, passed 10-5-87; Am. Ord. 2003-18, passed 10-5-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 99.06 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   Construction, installation, and maintenance of the cable system shall be
performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All such work shall be
performed in substantial accordance with applicable Federal Communications
Commission or other federal, state, and local regulations. The cable system
shall not unreasonably endanger or interfere with the safety of persons or
property in the city.
(Ord. 1987-14, passed 10-5-87; Am. Ord. 2003-18, passed 10-5-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 99.07 FRANCHISE FEE; RENEWAL; TRANSFER.
   (A)   Franchise fee. The grantee shall pay to the franchising authority a
franchise fee equal to 5% of gross revenues received by the grantee from the
operation of the cable system on an annual basis. The franchise fee payment
shall be due and payable 60 days after the close of the preceding calendar
year. Each payment shall be accompanied by a brief report from a representative
of the grantee showing the basis for the computation.
   (B)   Renewal of franchise. The franchising authority and the grantee agree
that any proceedings undertaken by the franchising authority that relate to the
renewal of the grantee's franchise shall be governed by and comply with the
provisions of the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended.
   (C)   Transfer of franchise. The grantee's right, title, or interest in the
franchise shall not be sold, transferred, assigned, or otherwise encumbered,
other than to an entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control
with the grantee, without the prior consent of the franchising authority, such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld. No such consent shall be required,
however, for a transfer in trust, by mortgage, by other hypothecation, or by
assignment of any rights, title, or interest of the grantee in the franchise or
cable system in order to secure indebtedness.
(Ord. 1987-14, passed 10-5-87; Am. Ord. 2003-18, passed 10-5-03)
§ 99.08 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The grantee shall maintain in full force and effect, at its own cost and
expense, during the term of the franchise, general comprehensive liability
insurance in the amount of $l,000,000 for bodily injuries, including accidental
death, to any one person, and subject to the same limit for each person in an
amount not less than $l,000,000 on account of any one occurrence, and property
damage liability insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000 resulting from
any one occurrence. The grantee shall also provide the franchising authority
with proof of this insurance with companies approved by the city.
(Ord. 1987-14, passed 10-5-87; Am. Ord. 2003-18, passed 10-5-03)
§ 99.09 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; NOTICE; ACTS OF GOD.
   (A)   Notice of violation. In the event that the franchising authority
believes that the grantee has not complied with the terms of the franchise, it
shall notify the grantee of the exact nature of the alleged noncompliance. The
grantee shall have 30 days from receipt of the notice to respond to the
franchising authority to cure such default or, in the event that, by the nature
of default, such default cannot be cured within the 30-day period, to initiate
reasonable steps to remedy such default and notify the franchising authority of
the steps being taken and the projected date when they will be completed.
   (B)   Notice. Unless otherwise expressly agreed between the parties, every
notice or response to be served upon the franchising authority or grantee shall
be in writing, and shall be deemed to have been duly given to the required
party five business days after having been posted in a properly sealed and
correctly addressed envelope by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid,
at a post office or branch thereof regularly maintained by the U.S. Postal
Service. The notices or responses to the franchising authority shall be
addressed as follows: Mayor, City of Greensburg, 314 N. Michigan Avenue,
Greensburg, IN 47240 with a copy to: Frank I. Hamilton, Jr., 117 S. Broadway,
Greensburg, IN 47240. The notices or responses to the grantee shall be
addressed as follows: Enhanced Telecommunications of Indiana, Inc., P.O. Box
217, 244 SR 129 S., Batesville, Indiana 47006, with a copy to: the attention of
the Legal Department, addressed to the Grantee, at 5455 South Valentia Way,
Englewood, Colorado 80111. The franchising authority and the grantee may
designate such other address or addresses from time to time by giving notice to
the other.
   (C)   Acts of God. The grantee shall not be held in default or noncompliance
with the provisions of the franchise, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty
relating thereto, where such noncompliance or alleged defaults are caused by
strikes, acts of God, power outages, or other events reasonably beyond its
ability to control.
(Ord. 1987-14, passed 10-5-87; Am. Ord. 2003-18, passed 10-5-03)
RATE REGULATIONS
§ 99.15 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS; DEFINITION.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby adopts the rules and regulations set forth
by the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to Section 623 (b) of the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 U.S.C. 543
(b)) for the review of the basic service tier of cable television services and
equipment necessary for the provision of such service tier. Such rules and
regulations are promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the "BASIC SERVICE TIER OF CABLE
TELEVISION SERVICES" shall mean a separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all signals of domestic television broadcast
stations provided to any subscriber (except a signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite carrier beyond the local service area of such station, regardless of
how such signal is ultimately received by the cable system); any public,
educational, and governmental programming required by the franchise to be
carried on the basic tier; and any additional video programming signals or
service added to the basic tier by the cable operator. Equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service shall be defined as those items of
associated equipment necessary for the reception of basic cable service by a
subscriber, including, but not limited to converter boxes, remote control
units, additional outlets, and installations.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-7-94)
§ 99.16 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   The city shall provide the grantee of the cable television franchise,
the public, and interested parties with an opportunity to be heard at a public
hearing before the Common Council, upon 14 days' written notice to the grantee
of the cable television franchise of the time and place of the public hearing;
provided further that said notice shall indicate that the purpose of the public
hearing is to receive the views of the grantee and interested parties on issues
pertaining to regulation of the basic service tier of cable television services
and equipment necessary to provide said basic tier of service; and provided
further that notice of said public hearing shall be published in a local
newspaper of general circulation at least ten days before the date of this
hearing; and provided further, that an agenda for said public hearing shall be
posted in a public place at city hall at least seven days prior to said public
hearing.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of this subchapter and the certification of the City
of Greensburg by the Federal Communications Commission, the city shall
immediately notify the cable operator by certified mail, return receipt
requested, that the city intends to regulate subscriber rates charged for the
basic service tier and associated equipment as authorized by the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992. Upon receipt of
said notice by the city, the cable operator shall, within 30 days, file with
the city its current rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment
along with any additional documentation justifying the reasonableness of its
rates.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-7-94)
§ 99.17 REVIEW PERIOD.
   (A)   The city shall establish that the period for review of rates of the
basic service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service shall be 30 days from the submission by the
grantee of the cable television franchise of Federal Communications Commission
Form 393. If the Common Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator files its basic cable rates with the city, the proposed
rates will continue in effect.
   (B)   In the event that additional time for review of the Federal
Communications Commission Form 393 submitted by grantee is necessary, the
Common Council or their designee shall issue a brief written order prior to the
end of the 30-day review period, with a copy of said order to be sent by
certified United States Mail to the grantee, providing for an additional 90-day
period for review of rates of the basic service tier and the equipment
necessary to provide said basic tier of service. During the extended review
period and before taking action on the proposed rate, the Common Council shall
hold at least one public hearing in which interested citizens may express their
views and record objections.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-7-94)
§ 99.18 COST-OF-SERVICE SHOWING.
   (A)   The city shall establish that the period for review of the basic
service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service shall be 90 days from the submission by the
grantee of information and forms prescribed by the Federal Communications
Commission for a showing of cost-of-service, as defined by the Federal
Communications Commission.
   (B)   In the event that additional time for review of the cost-of-service
showing submitted by the grantee is necessary, the Common Council or their
designee shall issue a brief written order prior to the end of the 90-day
review period with a copy of said order to be sent by certified United States
Mail to the grantee, providing for an additional 150-day period for review of
rates of the basic service tier service. During the extended review period and
before taking action on the proposed rate, the Common Council shall hold at
least one public hearing in which interested citizens may express their views
and record objections.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-7-94)
§ 99.19 DECISION OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   Upon completion of its review of the proposed rates for the basic
service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service, the Common Council shall adopt its decision
by formal resolution. Said resolution shall indicate the reasons of the
decision.
   (B)   In the event that the cable operator's proposed rates exceed the
reasonable rate standard as established by the Federal Communications
Commission in its rules and regulations, the Common Council may order the rates
reduced by rollbacks or refunds to subscribers, in the manner so prescribed by
the Federal Communications Commission.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-7-94)
§ 99.20 REFUND.
   The city may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers a portion of
previously paid rates under the following circumstances:
   (A)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be in
excess of the permitted basic cable service tier charge or above the actual
cost of equipment; or
   (B)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order issued
by the city.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-7-94)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Failure by the cable operator to comply with the terms and conditions
established in §§
99.15 through
99.20 shall constitute a violation and shall be a fine of $200 per day for each
day of said violation.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-7-94)
CHAPTER 100: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
100.01   Policy
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Unlawful practice
   
100.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
100.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
100.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
100.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
100.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
100.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
100.10   Exemptions
   
100.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 100.01 POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1992-22, passed 2-1-93; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2014-
15, passed 9-2-14)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “AGGRIEVED PERSON.” Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   “COMMISSION.” The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C.
22-9-1-4 et seq. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   “COMPLAINANT.” A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint
under I.C. 22-9.5-6. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   “DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE.” An act that is unlawful under §§ 100.04,
100.05, 100.06, 100.07 or 100.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   “DWELLING.” Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   “FAMILIAL STATUS.”
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   “FAMILY.” A single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of such
family being further defined in this section.
   “HANDICAP.”
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (2)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   “PERSON.” Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   “TO RENT.” Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant. (I.C.
22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 1992-22, passed 2-1-93; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2014-
15, passed 9-2-14)
§ 100.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B), §
100.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 9-22.5-5-1 and §
100.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C), nothing in §
100.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single- family
houses at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house
by a private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of § 100.04(C), but nothing in
this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters,
title companies and other such professional assistance as necessary to perfect
or transfer its title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1992-22, passed 2-1-93; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2014-
15, passed 9-2-14)
§ 100.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
100.03 and except as exempted by §
100.03(B) and §
100.10, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of
services or facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(3)(c)3. above.
   (J)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1992-22, passed 2-1-93; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2014-
15, passed 9-2-14)
§ 100.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term “RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION” means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 1992-22, passed 2-1-93; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2014-
15, passed 9-2-14)
§ 100.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 1992-22, passed 2-1-93; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2014-
15, passed 9-2-14)
§ 100.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
100.03 through
100.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1992-22, passed 2-1-93; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2014-
15, passed 9-2-14)
§ 100.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 9-2-14)
§ 100.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3, the definition of
“FAMILY” is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 9-2-14)
§ 100.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, “HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS” means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program); or
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1992-22, passed 2-1-93; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2014-
15, passed 9-2-14)
§ 100.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
City of Greensburg, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the city, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Official of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, shall refer all said
complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A)above to said
Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as
provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the City of Greensburg, Indiana, or the
Chief Elected Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 1992-22, passed 2-1-93; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2014-
15, passed 9-2-15)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADVERTISING
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   FOOD VENDORS
      
113.   MOTOR VEHICLE SALES
      
114.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      115.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
 CHAPTER 110: ADVERTISING
Section
   
110.01   Posting of bills prohibited
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 POSTING OF BILLS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to print, paint, post, stencil, or otherwise mark on
or, in any manner nail, suspend, or affix to any telegraph, telephone, or
electric light pole or lamppost, or any other post or pole permitted within the
city limits, any word, letter, character, figure, sentence, or device, or any
handbill, poster, notice, or advertisement of any character, however, this
section shall not prohibit the marking of highways within and through the city
limits for the aid of the traveling public.
('76 Code, § 3-1) (Ord. passed 12-1-24)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $l,000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Shows and Exhibitions
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Application
   
111.03   Issuance of license
   
111.04   Records and reports
   
111.05   Term of license; fees
   
111.06   Maintaining order
   
111.07   Sunday operation prohibited
   
111.08   Exceptions
Billiard, Pool Room, and Game Room Operation
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Fees
   
111.17   Location
   
111.18   Hours of operation
   
111.19   Exceptions
   
111.20   Issuance of license
 
   
111.99   Penalty
SHOWS AND EXHIBITIONS
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person who desires to exhibit or participate in exhibiting in the city,
for any payment or reward charged, demanded or received, any theatrical
performance, any show, puppet, wax figures, or animals or any display of
tumbling feats, rope, or wire walking, dancing or sleight-of-hand, any circus,
menagerie, natural or artificial curiosities, deception or representation or
any musical concert or any moving picture show or entertainment or performance
of the same general description, shall first obtain a license therefor,
pursuant to this subchapter.
('76 Code, § 4-16) (Ord. passed 5-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 6-3-07)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.02 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to obtain a license under this subchapter shall apply to
the Mayor stating fully for what purpose such license is desired and the
location where such business or show is to be carried on, and the length of
time for which such license is desired.
('76 Code, § 4-17) (Ord. passed 5-3-01)
§ 111.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   If the applicant for the license required by this subchapter is a
suitable person, the Mayor shall grant an order for such license. The order
shall state the license fee to be paid on presentation of the order to the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
('76 Code, § 4-18) (Ord. passed 5-3-01)
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer, on receiving the required fee and order for
the license shall issue a license signed by the Mayor, attested by the Clerk-
Treasurer and bearing the seal of the City.
('76 Code, § 4-19) (Ord. passed 5-3-01)
§ 111.04 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The licenses required by this subchapter shall be numbered
consecutively as they are issued and the City Clerk-Treasurer shall enter the
same in their order in a book kept for that purpose. Such entry shall show the
number and date of each license, to whom and the length of time for which each
was issued, the amount paid therefor and also for what purpose and kind of
entertainment it was issued.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall at the end of every three months make to the
Common Council a written report of all such licenses issued during the
preceding quarter as the same shall appear on the books.
('76 Code, § 4-20) (Ord. passed 5-3-01)
§ 111.05 TERM OF LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   The license for any theatrical performance or for any show or
performance except moving pictures held within any building shall be granted
for any number of days, which number of days shall be stated in the application
and license. The license fee therefor shall be as follows:
      (1)   For one day, $2;
      (2)   For two successive days, $3;
      (3)   For three successive days, $3.75;
      (4)   For four or more successive days, $1 per day.
   (B)   The license for any circus and menagerie or shows of any character
held under a tent or outside of any building shall be granted for one day only
and the license fee therefor shall be as follows:
      (1)   For a circus or circus and menagerie combined, $15;
      (2)   For each sideshow, $5.
   (C)   For any show or entertainment known as a "merry-go-round" or "ocean
wave," the fee shall be the same as required in division (A) of this section
for theatrical performances.
   (D)   The license for any moving picture show or entertainment shall not be
issued for less than six months at a time. The license fee for such a show or
entertainment shall be $25 per annum with one-half of such license fee to be
paid in advance and at the beginning of each six months.
   (E)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall have the right to charge and collect
from any applicant for the license required by this subchapter, in addition to
the license fees provided for in divisions (A) through (D) of this section, a
fee of $.50 for each license issued by him under this chapter.
('76 Code, § 4-21) (Ord. passed 5-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 6-3-07)
§ 111.06 MAINTAINING ORDER REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
maintaining any dance hall, skating rink, or other place of amusement or
entertainment to allow any immoral or indecent language in or about his place
of business or to fail to conduct or cause to be conducted any such
entertainment or amusement in a lawful and orderly manner.
('76 Code, § 4-22) (Ord. passed 1-6-13)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.07 SUNDAY OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
maintaining any skating rink, dance hall, or other place of amusement or
entertainment to conduct or operate or maintain such place of entertainment or
amusement on Sunday.
('76 Code, § 4-23) (Ord. passed 1-6-13)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   The licensing provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to apply
to:
   (A)   Entertainments consisting of lectures on scientific, historical,
benevolent, or literary subjects, or exhibitions of specimens of fine art;
   (B)   Concerts or exhibitions, the net profits of which shall be donated
exclusively to any religious, charitable or scientific purpose.
('76 Code, § 4-24) (Ord. passed 5-3-01)
BILLIARD, POOL ROOM, AND GAME ROOM OPERATION
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, "AMUSEMENTS" shall mean any pool
table, billiard table, bagatelle table, pigeonhole table, or game machines
operated by coins or other metallic or wooden objects.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate, maintain, or conduct an
amusement establishment open to the public without having first obtained a
license therefor as herein required.
   (C)   All applications for such license shall state thereon the intended
location of the place of business and the number and description of tables or
games to be used therein.
   (D)   The application shall be accompanied by a statement signed by the
Chief of Police indicating the recommendations of the Police Department.
('76 Code, § 4-45) (Ord. 1969-5, passed 6-2-69; Am. Ord. 1978-19, passed 3-5-
79)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.16 FEES.
   The annual fee for a license for game tables as described herein shall be
$50 for the first four tables, and an additional fee of $10 for each additional
table. The annual fee for a license for game machine as described herein shall
be $10 for the first game machine and an additional fee of $5 for each
additional game machine.
('76 Code, § 4-47) (Ord. 1969-5, passed 6-2-69; Am. Ord. 1978-19, passed 3-5-
79)
§ 111.17 LOCATION.
   Any place so licensed shall be on the ground floor, clearly visible from the
street, with no curtains, blinds, or other obstructions obstructing the view.
Such place so licensed shall not have a second story or basement operated or
used in connection therewith.
('76 Code, § 4-36) (Ord. 1969-5, passed 6-2-69; Am. Ord. 1978-19, passed 3-5-
79)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.18 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Any place so licensed shall not be operated earlier than 7:00 a.m. nor later
than midnight on any day, provided, that taverns, restaurants, and retail
stores shall be excluded from the provisions of this section.
('76 Code, § 4-37) (Ord. 1969-5, passed 6-2-69; Am. Ord. 1978-19, passed 3-5-
79)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.19 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply in any case where a game table or game
machine may be kept or used in a private family or in a building maintained for
philanthropic, benevolent, or educational purposes.
('76 Code, § 4-38) (Ord. 1969-5, passed 6-2-69; Am. Ord. 1978-19, passed 3-5-
79)
§ 111.20 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   All applications for such license shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
who shall submit it to the Board of Works and Safety for approval or
disapproval. If approved, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue such license.
('76 Code, § 4-46) (Ord. 1969-5, passed 6-2-69; Am. Ord. 1978-19, passed 3-5-
79)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Upon violation of any of the provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.20, any license issued to the offender under such sections shall be
revoked.
CHAPTER 112: FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
112.01   Vending vehicles; license required
   
112.02   Application
   
112.03   License fee; term
   
112.04   Revocation of license
   
112.05   Sanitation
   
112.06   Parking and sales restrictions
   
112.07   Sales prohibited in certain areas
   
112.08   Selling time restricted
   
112.09   Hours of operation
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 VENDING VEHICLES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, or permit the use of, any
vehicle, including wagons and motor vehicles and vehicles propelled by
manpower, for the sale or the offering for sale of ice cream, candy, soft drink
beverages, and other confectionaries intended for human consumption on any
public street or sidewalk in the city unless the provisions of this chapter are
fully complied with, and a license for such vehicle is first secured.
('76 Code, §§ ll-16, ll-17) (Ord. 1962-2, passed 3-5-62)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.02 APPLICATION.
   Applications for the license required by §
112.01 shall be addressed to the Board of Public Works and Safety and filed at
the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. Such applications shall recite the name
of the owner of each vehicle, the name or names of persons who will operate the
vehicles, including the age and address of each operator, a full description of
the vehicle to be used in such business, and a full description of the ice
cream, candy, soft drink beverages, and other confectionaries that will be sold
or offered for sale.
('76 Code, § ll-18) (Ord. 1962-2, passed 3-5-62)
§ 112.03 LICENSE FEE; TERM.
   The annual fee for the license shall be $100 for each vehicle and such
license shall be issued for one year beginning on January 1 of each calendar
year. Such fees shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the
application for a license is filed.
('76 Code, § ll-19) (Ord. 1962-2, passed 3-5-62)
§ 112.04 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted may be revoked without notice by the Board of Public
Works and Safety because of any violation by the registrant, or his officers,
employees, or agents, of this chapter or of any ordinance of the city or of any
state or federal law.
('76 Code, § ll-20) (Ord. 1962-2, passed 3-5-62)
§ 112.05 SANITATION.
   Each vehicle that is to be used in selling or offering for sale any ice
cream, candy, soft drink beverages or other confectionaries shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition and shall be thoroughly cleaned each day it is
used. It shall be unlawful to permit any stale food, decaying matter, or any
other waste material or product to accumulate in or on any such vehicle while
it is so used.
('76 Code, § ll-21) (Ord. 1962-2, passed 3-5-62)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.06 PARKING AND SALES RESTRICTIONS.
   Whenever a vehicle is selling or offering for sale any ice cream, candy,
soft drink beverages or other confectionaries, such vehicle shall be parked
flush with the curb of the street, in compliance with applicable city
ordinances and state statutes, and sales shall only be made from the side of
the vehicle next to the curb or sidewalk of such street.
('76 Code, § ll-22) (Ord. 1962-2, passed 3-5-62)
Penalty, see § 112.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking, see
Ch. 72
   Obstructing sidewalks, see §
95.07
§ 112.07 SALES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   Because of traffic congestion, pedestrian hazards, and other safety factors,
vehicles shall not be permitted to sell or to offer for sale any ice cream,
candy, soft drink beverages, or other confectionaries in the following
designated areas and streets in the city.
   (A)   On any street or alley within 250 feet of any public or parochial
school, public park, or public playground.
   (B)   On any state highways, First Street from North Lincoln to North
Michigan Avenue, South Broadway from West Main Street to South Monfort, Davis
from South Monfort to South Ireland, Park Road from South Ireland to the city
park.
('76 Code, § ll-23) (Ord. 1962-2, passed 3-5-62)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.08 SELLING TIME RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to engage in selling or offering for
sale any ice cream, candy, soft drink beverages, and other confectionaries in
any block on any public street or sidewalk for a period of longer than 20
minutes.
('76 Code, § ll-24) (Ord. 1962-2, passed 3-5-62)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.09 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The hours of operation of any vending vehicle shall be between the hours of
9:00 to 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 to 9:00 p.m.
('76 Code, § 11-25) (Ord. 1962-2, passed 3-5-62)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 113: MOTOR VEHICLE SALES
Section
   
113.01   Off premises sales of motor vehicles
   
113.02   Definitions
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 OFF PREMISES SALES OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No dealer may sell or exhibit for sale any motor vehicle at any temporary
location within the city limits of the city unless such dealer has an
established place of business located in the county.
(Ord. 2002-26, passed 10-7-02)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS. 
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings stated
below:
   “DEALER.” A person licensed as a dealer pursuant to IC 9-10-2-2..
   "ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS." A permanent enclosed building or structure
owned or leased for the purpose of bartering, trading, and selling motor
vehicles. The term "ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS" does not include any
residence, tent, temporary stand, or permanent quarters temporarily occupied.
   "MOTOR VEHICLE." Any self-propelled vehicle, other than a semi-trailer, for
which the owner would be required to obtain a certificate of title pursuant to
IC 9-1-2-2.
   "TEMPORARY LOCATION." A site, other than an established place of business,
at which a dealer exhibits for sale more than six motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2002-26, passed 10-7-02)
Editor’s note:
   IC 9-1 was repealed by P.L. 2-1991, Sec. 109
§ 113.99 PENALTY. 
   Any dealer who violates the prohibition of §
113.01 shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,000 per day for each day said
dealer is in violation of this section. The city acting through the Planning
Commission Director may in the name of the city bring certain action in the
Circuit Court or Superior Court of Decatur County for recovery of all fines and
costs incurred by the city in enforcing the terms of this chapter. In addition,
the city or any person may bring an action for the mandatory and injunctive
relief and for the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any provisions
of this chapter. If it is determined that any person attempts or does violate
any of the provisions of this chapter including the payment of fines and costs
then that person or persons shall be required to pay all litigation expenses,
court costs, and attorney fees of the city or of any party or parties seeking
to enforce the provisions of this chapter which expenses shall include the
recovery of all costs and expenses including but not limited to all attorney
fees and litigation expenses.
(Ord. 2002-26, passed 10-7-02)
CHAPTER 114: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Prohibition on solicitation for commercial purpose
   
114.04   Registration for permitted solicitation
   
114.05   Exemptions
   
114.06   Enforcement
   
114.07   “No soliciting” notices
   
114.08   Panhandling prohibited
   
114.09   Exhibition of license
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of sales and charitable solicitations, see IC 36-8-2-11
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the safety, peace, and well-being
of all citizens of the city through the regulation and delineation of
appropriate methods and means of door-to-door contact with citizens at their
residences located within the city limits. This purpose is in the public
interest and for the betterment of the community and this chapter, crafted with
input by the public and affected merchants, is narrowly tailored to meet those
purposes.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 3-2-15)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “CITY.” The City of Greensburg, Indiana.
   “ITINERANT MERCHANT.” Any person or business lacking a formal and authorized
U.S. mailing address located within Decatur County or a contiguous county who
engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering unsolicited goods,
wares, merchandise, or other commodities within the city, and who in
furtherance of such purpose leases, uses, or occupies any building, vehicle,
trailer, tent, railroad car, hotel room or other place in the city for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares, merchandise, or other commodities.
   “PEDDLER.” Any person, except those selling newspapers, Bibles, or religious
tracts, who goes from house to house, living unit to living unit, or within any
residential area, conveying or transporting goods, wares, or merchandise or
other commodities or offering or exposing the same for sale throughout
different parts of the city for commercial gain.
   “SOLICITOR.” Any person who goes from house to house, living unit to living
unit, or within any residential area for the purposes of taking unsolicited
orders for sales of goods, wares, or merchandise of a commercial nature or
content for immediate or future delivery, or for services to be performed
immediately or in the future for commercial gain. Such definition includes any
person who, for himself, herself or another, leases, uses or occupies any
building, vehicle, trailer, tent, railroad care, hotel room, or other place in
the city for the primary purposes of exhibiting samples and taking orders for
future delivery.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 3-2-15)
§ 114.03 PROHIBITION ON SOLICITATION FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.
   (A)   Except as exempted by §
114.05, itinerant merchants, solicitors, and peddlers are prohibited from
distributing or causing to be distributed to residential areas in the city,
handbills or other commercial advertising matter of any kind by placing or
causing the same to be placed in any automobile, yard, porch, or mailbox in the
city not in the possession or under the control of the person so distributing.
   (B) Except as exempted by §
114.05, no peddler, solicitor, or itinerant merchant will be permitted to
solicit for commercial purposes door-to-door in residential areas through the
city or from house to house to sell, expose, or offer for sale in any of the
streets or alleys of the city any goods, wares, or merchandise.
   (C) Any person or business soliciting pursuant to certificate of
registration as set forth in §
114.04, shall be limited to the placement and leaving of advertisement,
handbills, or other commercial marketing materials.
(Ord. 1982-20, passed 12-6-82; Am. Ord. 1998-15, passed 8-3-98; Am. Ord. 2014-
18, passed 3-2-15) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 REGISTRATION FOR PERMITTED SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Any person or business that does not meet the definition of an
itinerant merchant, solicitor, or peddler desiring to engage in soliciting at a
residence in the city shall apply to the city for a monthly certificate of
registration. The certificate, issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer or his or her
designee, shall be maintained by the City Clerk and legible copy shall be
carried by the registrant at all times while soliciting. Upon request for
inspection by an occupant of a residence or a police officer or other city
official or designee, while the registrant is engaged in his or her business or
seeking to transact his or her business at any residence, the registrant shall
produce and show a copy of this certificate. Failure to produce a valid
registration shall result in forfeiture of the registration and other
applicable fines, levies, or punishments.
   (B)   The city shall provide a standard form for use for registration. The
applicant shall state in writing upon his or her oath or affirmation that the
information is truthfully provided to the best of his or her knowledge or
belief. The applicant shall provide the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s true, correct and legal name and the name of the
organization for which he or she is soliciting.
      (2)   Address and phone number of applicant’s place of business.
      (3)   A description of the applicant’s anticipated mode of
transportation, including make, model, and license plate number of any motor
vehicle.
      (4)   The purpose for which soliciting is being done.
      (5)   A brief description of the anticipated method of solicitation.
      (6)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has ever been
convicted of a felony or misdemeanor against person or property.
      (7)   A statement documenting that the applicant is authorized to solicit
on behalf of the organization.
      (8)   A passport size photo of the applicant.
      (9)   A copy of the applicant’s driver’s license, identification card,
passport, or some other form of validly issued photo identification.
   (C)   All certificates shall be valid for a period of 30 days from the date
of issuance and shall immediately expire thereafter.
   (D)   The cost of the registration shall be set at $25 and is subject to
change as necessary by the Mayor.
   (E)   All certificates are non-transferrable and a separate registration
must be made for each person intending to solicit.
('76 Code, §§ 18-13 - 18-18, 18-20, 18-21) (Ord. passed 5-3-01; Am. Ord. passed
5-6-35; Am. Ord. 1998-15, passed 8-3-98; Am. Ord. 2014-18, passed 3-2-15)
Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   City license for transient merchants authorized, see IC 25-37-1-11
§ 114.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to apply to:
   (A)   Persons making solicitation solely for a church, religious
organization or charitable organization, including any unincorporated
association or corporation under the supervision of any church, charitable
organization or religious organization exempted under the tax provisions of the
United States Internal Revenue Code.
   (B)   Any organization exempted under the tax provisions of the United
States Internal Revenue Code or applicable laws, statutes, and codes of the
State of Indiana.
   (C)   Students soliciting contribution to finance extracurricular, academic,
social, athletic, artistic, scientific, or cultural programs, provided that the
solicitation has been approved by the principal, school board, or an educator
or administrator within the school corporation.
   (D)   Persons canvassing for the purpose of distributing political
literature or materials on behalf of a political party, candidate or public
issue or introducing themselves as a supporter of a candidate, political party,
cause or issue.
   (E)   Persons making solicitations solely for a nationally recognized youth
organization such as YMCA, YWCA, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, or similarly
recognizable boys’ and girls’ clubs.
   (F)   Persons or business participating in a festival, block party, or other
street party type event that has been authorized and approved by the Board of
Works for the city.
   (G)   Any newspaper or any publication printing news of a general nature,
and keeping advertising space therein open to the public and the publishing of
general advertising matter.
   (H)   Any business entity that has been permitted, authorized, or requested
to solicit at a residence by the citizen owning the residence or any citizen
occupying the residence as a tenant in possession.
('76 Code, § 18-21) (Ord. passed 5-3-01; Am. Ord. 1998-15, passed 8-3-98; Am.
Ord. 2014-18, passed 3-2-15)
§ 114.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Greensburg Police Department shall be authorized and will issue
any citations for violations of this chapter. The citation would contain the
designated dollar amount of the fine, the ordinance number of the violation,
and that any fines are paid to the Clerk- Treasurer’s Office.
   (B)   The City Attorney would then only file a civil suit if the citation is
not paid within 72 hours of issuance.
   (C)   Any person or business found to have violated this chapter and being
issued a citation that is not paid within seven business days of issuance shall
be barred from ever receiving another certificate under §
114.03 without first obtaining written approval from the Board of Works of the
city.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 3-2-15) Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.07 “NO SOLICITING” NOTICES.
   (A)   Any occupant of a residence or occupants of a multi-family dwelling
who desire(s) not to have any solicitation call on said residence(s) shall give
notice of this desire to refuse solicitors by displaying a clearly visible
weatherproof placard no smaller than 16 square inches and no larger than 94
square inches stating “No Soliciting” which shall be posted on or near the main
entrance of the private property and not within the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Residents of a residential subdivision, acting through an authorized
homeowners’ association or other applicable corporate entity, may elect and
indicate their desire not to have solicitors call on any residences in that
subdivision by giving notice of the desire to refuse solicitors by displaying a
clearly visible weatherproof placard no smaller than 16 square inches and no
larger than 94 square inches stating “No Soliciting” which shall be posted on
or near the main entrance of the residential subdivision and not within the
public right-of-way.
   (C)   Any commercial entity or business operating within the city may elect
to post “No Soliciting” signs that meet or exceed the requirements set forth in
division (A) above. Posting of this sign shall give notice to refuse solicitors
in conjunction with this chapter.
   (D)   All “no soliciting” signs must comply with the applicable provisions
of the ordinances of the city.
   (E)   Any person found to solicit at a residence that has posted a “no
soliciting” notice shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to penalty
as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 3-2-14) Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.08 PANHANDLING PROHIBITED.
   Panhandling, as that term is defined by I.C. 35-45-17-1, is prohibited
within the City of Greensburg.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 3-2-14) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   An individual or business performing the above actions in violation of
this chapter shall be penalized a minimum of $500 per day, but not more than
$1,000 per day nor more than $2,500 per violation for unauthorized
solicitation.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a violation
occurs or continues.
(Am. Ord. 1998-15, passed 8-3-98; Am. Ord. 2014-18, passed 3-2-15)
CHAPTER 115: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Designated Outdoor Refreshment Area
   
115.01   Area
   
115.02   Regulations
   
115.03   Temporary vendors
   
115.04   Zoning
   
115.05   Signage guidelines
   
115.06   Signage placement
   
115.07   Hours of operation
   
115.08   Retailer permitees
   
115.09   Alcoholic containers and consumption
   
115.10   Carryout privileges
   
115.11   ATC approval
   
115.12   Temporary and catering permits
   
115.13   Oversight
DESIGNATED OUTDOOR REFRESHMENT AREA
§ 115.01 AREA.
   The following described area will be the boundaries of the DORA and the
interior space created will be considered the DORA within the City of
Greensburg, to wit:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1199a6242ee89836ad08ce88dd91846aa8857b3e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3580.png]
 
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
§ 115.02 REGULATIONS.
   Pursuant to IC 7.1-3-31 there are laws and regulations about which
businesses can apply to be a vendor and a process to do so. The City of
Greensburg will require that businesses comply with state statue before using
or participating in the DORA program. Those businesses that have completed an
application are:
   (A)   MTAA INC-BDA: The tAAp-116 E Washington Street Greensburg, IN 47240.
   (B)   Lousis Caperoon & Beborah Caperoon - BDA: Beach Tiki Bar & Grill - 107
N Broadway St. Greensburg, IN 47240.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
§ 115.03 TEMPORARY VENDORS.
   (A)   When a temporary vendor has petitioned the state of Indiana for an
event there are locations that they may set up. The areas have been established
as follows:
      (1)   Bank Lot;
      (2)   Downtown Square Area;
      (3)   South of Downtown Square;
      (4)   Heritage Hill; and
      (5)   Park Area.
   (B)   Temporary vendors will identify the location of their request per
state requirements.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
§ 115.04 ZONING.
   This chapter is consistent with the city's zoning ordinance and
comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
§ 115.05 SIGNAGE GUIDELINES.
   The city will establish a brand and guidelines for signage for the DORA.
Only city authorized signage may be used for DORA purposes. This can be
assigned to an agent of the city. Any signage using the DORA logo or language
must include approval of the City and carry its current logo or approval stamp.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)+
§ 115.06 SIGNAGE PLACEMENT.
   (A)   The aforementioned signage will be posted at the boundaries of the
locations include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Intersections on the boundary;
      (2)   Major sidewalks along the boundary;
      (3)   Potential points of gathering near the boundary;
      (4)   Area of congregation; and
      (5)   Where appropriate to confer the message.
   (B)   Signage will be of similar material as street signs and be
approximately 18 inches square.
   (C)   At least 50 signs will be placed along the perimeter of the DORA.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
§ 115.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours of operation of the DORA are limited to 10:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m the
following day. The DORA will remain available, seven days a week, 365 days a
year, as long as it permitted by IC 7.1-3-1-14.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
§ 115.08 RETAILER PERMITEES.
   (A)   The posting of signs by retailer permittees and other businesses in
the DORA indicating whether the business is participating in the DORA and
whether a person may enter the business with an open container of alcohol is
optional.
   (B)   A retailer permittee or other business located in a DORA may, on a
nondiscriminatory basis, refuse to allow persons to enter their licensed
premises or business with an alcoholic beverage.
   (C)   All signage allowing or preventing open containers of alcohol must be
in accordance with § 115.05.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
§ 115.09 ALCOHOLIC CONTAINERS AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Designated permittees and vendors shall use only non-breakable
containers, including but not limited to plastic bottles, aluminum cans or
bottles, plastic cups, or paper cups for alcoholic beverages sold to be
consumed in the DORA. No glass containers are allowed to be carried into the
DORA.
   (B)   A designated permittee or a vendor may allow a person to exit their
premises into the DORA with not more than two open alcoholic beverages. The
maximum fill limits for an alcoholic beverage being sold for consumption within
a DORA are as follows:
      (1)   Beer or flavored malt beverages: up to 16 ounces.
      (2)   Wine, cider, or a premixed cocktail: up to 12ounces.
      (3)   Liquor or a liquor-based cocktail: up to ten ounces, including up
to two ounces of liquor.
   (C)   A person may not consume an alcoholic beverage in public areas of the
DORA that was purchased outside of the DORA.
   (D)   Designated permittees and temporary vendors remain responsible for
enforcement of the volumes served and to ensure compliance with state law and
regulations of their permits.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
§ 115.10 CARRYOUT PRIVILEGES.
   The carryout privileges that a designated permittee may have in their scope
of permit is not impacted by being located within a DORA. Carryout of seal
original containers may occur, but these containers shall not be opened or
consumed in the DORA.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
§ 115.11 ATC APPROVAL.
   Following ATC approval of the DORA, a retailer permittee operating in the
DORA who wishes to receive a designated permittee status must complete the
applicable form and obtain approval by signature from the relevant authority of
the municipality. Once signed, the form may be submitted to the ATC as part of
the retailer's application process.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
§ 115.12 TEMPORARY AND CATERING PERMITS.
   A person may apply to the relevant Indiana State Excise Police (Excise)
district office for a temporary beer and wine permit for operation in the DORA
to the same extent that they would otherwise be eligible. Additionally, a
retailer permittee with catering privileges may serve in a DORA under its
catering permit by following normal procedures and submitting a catering
authority request form for approval. In each case, prior to submitting the
temporary application or seeking catering approval, the person must complete
the designation form seeking vendor status and obtain approval in writing from
the relevant authority of the municipality. When submitting a temporary permit
application to the Excise district office, please include a copy of the DORA
map (which shall include the vendor areas designated by the municipality in its
ordinance) and indicate on the map the location where the vendor will operate.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
§ 115.13 OVERSIGHT.
   The City appoints Main Street Greensburg to oversee the signage, branding
(with approval of the Mayor's office), and allows them to charge a reasonable
fee associated with items carried into DORA. The fee is to be used to cover
cost associated with DORA signage, public safety, sanitation cost, events,
improvements, and operations of the district. Main Street Greensburg shall
adopt some form of requirement for affixing the DORA logo that identifies the
container for use in DORA. The fee or logo affixation is not required for
products not consumed in private spaces inside the DORA, only those carried
into the DORA.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-23; Am. Ord. 2023-29 passed 12-12-23)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of weapons restricted
   
130.02   Possession of weapons by minors
   
130.03   Public nuisances
   
130.04   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or air gun, BB gun, or pellet
gun projecting any lead or any missiles, or to discharge any bow and arrow or
any other type of missile with a bow within the corporate limits of the city,
provided that this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of
the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty, nor to
prohibit any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending any
person or property, nor to any regularly established shooting gallery, nor to
persons discharging any air gun, BB gun, pellet gun, or bow and arrow or any
missile with a bow on property of which they are legally seized, if provisions
are made so that the projected missile or arrow, when fired, will not ricochet
or travel beyond the bounds of the person's property.
('76 Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 1970-11, passed 11-2-70; Am. Ord. 1983-15, passed 12-
21-83)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02 POSSESSION OF WEAPONS BY MINORS.
   (A)   In the interest of safety, it shall be unlawful for persons under the
age of 18 to have on their person or in their possession any firearm or air
gun, BB gun, or pellet gun except when accompanied by one of their parents or a
legal guardian or when on the property of such parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   All persons under the age of 18 found to have any firearm or air gun,
BB gun, or pellet gun in violation of division (A) of this section will have
such weapon confiscated by the Police Department and the case referred to the
county juvenile probation officer.
('76 Code, § 16-2) (Ord. 1970-11, passed 11-2-70)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The following acts are declared to be unlawful and per se public nuisances,
but the enumeration of the following shall not be taken as exclusive:
   (A)   Loud continuing noises. The making of or continuing, or causing or
aiding to be made or continued, any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noises
whatsoever, which either annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, repose,
health, or safety of others, unless the making or continuing of the same is
necessary for the protection or preservation of property, or the health,
safety, life, or limb of some person.
   (B)   Sounding horns. The sounding of any horn, signal, device, whistle, or
attachment on any automobile, motorcycle, bicycle, truck, bus, railroad engine,
or other vehicle, except as a necessary warning of danger to persons or
property.
   (C)   Use of vehicle. The creation of grating, screeching, grinding,
squeaking, loud reports or shots, or other noises in the use of automobiles,
motorcycles, or other vehicles or appurtenances attached thereto.
   (D)   Musical instruments. The creation of loud noises by the manipulation,
handling, and playing of musical instruments, except in conjunction with
authorized parades or public functions, a permit for which has been issued by
the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Sound trucks or public address systems. The creation of noises by the
use of radios, sound trucks, public address systems, or similar devices on the
streets or public places of the city, or the use of any such devices, or any
window tapping or rattling devices on or from any building or private property
for the purpose of advertising or attracting attention, however, the city
police may use a sound truck or public address system on the streets and public
places for the purpose of directing or educating all vehicular traffic on the
streets and public places.
   (F)   Radios, phonographs, and victrolas. The creation of noise by any
radio, phonograph, victrola, or other musical instrument or the making of loud,
unnecessary, or boisterous noises at any hour whatsoever of the day.
   (G)   Pets. The keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl, which by odor, or by
causing frequent or continued noises, shall disturb the comfort or repose of
persons in any dwelling, apartment house, or residence.
('76 Code, § 16-4)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.04 CURFEW.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between l:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After ll:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after ll:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his parent, guardian, or
custodian; or
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned activity; or
         (c)   A religious event.
Cross-reference:
   Civil emergencies curfew, see §
91.03
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING STANDARDS
      
151.   HOUSE NUMBERING; STRUCTURE IDENTIFICATION
      
152.   RESERVED
      
153.   RESERVED
      
154.   THOROUGHFARE PLAN
      
155.   RESERVED
      
156.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
157.   LAND SURVEYING
      
158.   VACATIONS
      
159.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
160.     UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Moving buildings
   
150.02   Building demolition
   
150.03   Electric standards
   
150.04   Fire exits
Building Code
   
150.20   Title
   
150.21   Purpose
   
150.22   Definitions
   
150.23   Scope
   
150.24   Authority
   
150.25   Building permit required
   
150.26   Application for building permit
   
150.27   Building permit conflict of interest
   
150.28   Issuance of building permit
   
150.29   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.30   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
150.31   Inspections by fire department
   
150.32   Withhold issuance of permits
   
150.33   Permit revocation
   
150.34   Stop-work order
   
150.35   Civil action
   
150.36   Right of appeal
   
150.37   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.38   Lifting devices located within a private residence
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.50   Unsafe Building Law established
   
150.51   Statutes adopted by reference
   
150.52   Public nuisances
   
150.53   Repair and removal
   
150.54   Compliance with rules and standards
   
150.55   Definitions
   
150.56   Standards for reconstruction and repair
   
150.57   Unsafe Building Fund established
   
150.58   Violations
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention and protection, see
Ch. 92
   Planning, see Ch.
154
   Smoke detectors in family dwelling units, see §§
92.20 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and license the method of repair, alteration,
location, and construction of structures and other improvements, see IC 36-7-2-
4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   House moving shall be done only by licensed contractors who shall obtain a
permit therefor and post bond in a sum determined by the Building Commissioner
equal to the value of any possible damage to the streets, curbs, gutters, and
sidewalks of the city, as well as electrical transmission lines, telephone
lines, water lines, drains and sewers, and, as the house moving progresses,
each street, alley, or sidewalk over which the vehicle conveying any house
moves shall be protected in the manner as determined in the discretion of the
Building Commissioner. Such moving shall proceed only over a route which shall
be designated in the license.
('76 Code, § 7-17)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.02 BUILDING DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Compliance.
      (1)   All work and safety precautions in any demolition operations shall
be in conformity with the provisions of this section and, if not provided for
in this section, in conformity with accepted safe and sanitary practice to
insure protection of the workers and the general public.
      (2)   All demolition operators and/or companies must show proof of
insurance before any work can begin.
   (B)   Completion of work.
      (1)   After demolition work has been started, such work shall be
continuously and diligently carried on during regular working hours until the
demolition is complete, and until all resultant materials and debris have been
removed from the site.
      (2)   All construction must be completed within 15 working days.
   (C)   Service connections.
      (1)   Before a building can be demolished, the owner or agent shall
notify all utilities having service connections within the building, such as
water, electric, gas, sewer, and other connections.
      (2)   A demolition permit shall not be issued until a release is obtained
from the concerned utilities, stating that their respective service connections
and appurtenant equipment, such as meter regulators, have been or will be
removed or sealed and plugged in a safe and approved manner.
   (D)   Procedure generally.
      (1)   In the demolition of buildings other then those of wood-frame
construction, one story at a time shall be completely removed.
         (a)   Walls, sections of walls, chimneys, or other building parts
shall not be allowed to fall in mass upon upper floors or similar elevations,
except by approval of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
         (b)   Bulky material, such as beams and columns, shall be lowered and
not allowed to fall.
      (2)   Wrecked material or debris shall not be stored upon floors or
similar elevations in excess of the allowable load for such floors or similar
elevations.
      (3)   Removal of wrecked material or debris from floors.
         (a)   Wrecked material or debris shall not be thrown to the ground or
from floor to floor, unless the area, including boundary wall openings, is
closed off.
         (b)   If existing elevators are used for the removal of wrecked
material or debris, they shall not be loaded beyond the rated capacity of the
elevator.
         (c)   Where material hoists are used, they shall conform to the
requirements prescribed by the applicable sections of the Indiana Code.
      (4)   (a)   All glass doors, windows, mirrors, and the like, shall be
removed from the section to be demolished before work is started.
         (b)   Stairways and their supports shall be maintained in a safe
condition as long as the work will permit.
         (c)   Scaffolding.
            1.   In demolishing masonry walls with hand labor, scaffolding
shall be provided, unless an interior floor is located not more than 12 feet
below the working level.
            2.   All scaffolds shall be supported in a substantial manner and
shall conform to the requirements prescribed by the applicable section of the
Indiana Code.
      (5)   In all demolition operations, where there is danger of flying
particles, the permittee shall provide suitable eye protection and hard hats,
and it shall be the responsibility of the workers to wear such protection.
   (E)   Use and sanitation of site and adjacent land.
      (1)   The permittee under this section shall, so far as is reasonably
possible, confine all work and storage of materials or debris upon the land
where the work is being prosecuted.
      (2)   The permittee shall keep all neighboring and adjacent land free
from debris and waste material arising from the demolition operation.
   (F)   Use of public property.
      (1)   Public property shall not be used for the storage of materials or
equipment, or for the operation of equipment.
      (2)   Nor shall any fence, railing, barricade, walkway, canopy, shed,
scaffold or other construction or protection be erected on public property
without the approval of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (3)   Any such use shall be maintained safely and in a nonhazardous
manner, and approval for such use shall be revoked when unsafe conditions and
care are not properly corrected after notice to do so.
      (4)   The use of public property incidental to demolition operations
shall conform to the additional limitations and restrictions imposed by the
Police and Fire Chiefs, as deemed necessary by them for safety to life and
property, and for the maintenance of traffic on sidewalks and roadways.
   (G)   Storage and handling of material and equipment.
      (1)   No material and equipment shall be stored, handled or placed so as
to become a hazard to the public, workers, adjoining property or to the
property and structure on which it is placed.
      (2)   No fire hydrant, public utility box, catch basin or manhole shall
be obstructed or rendered inaccessible.
      (3)   Every tree on public property, light pole, and utility pole shall
be protected free from damage, and no material shall be piled or equipment
placed so as to interfere with the proper drainage of the street or other
property.
   (H)   Diversion of traffic. When, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, a
sufficient hazard to traffic on any sidewalk or roadway exists because of the
condition of the building being demolished, the Board of Public Works and
Safety shall authorize the Police Chief to close off such areas from vehicular
or pedestrian traffic, and to divert it as may be otherwise necessary.
   (I)   Driving over sidewalk or curb.
      (1)   No person shall drive over a sidewalk or a curb, other than at a
properly constructed driveway, for any purpose in connection with demolition
operations, including the delivery or removal of materials, without first
obtaining permission of the Street Department.
      (2)   Such permission to drive over curbs or sidewalks does not limit the
liability against damage or injury to property, and the permittee shall be
fully liable for any and all damage or injury caused thereby.
      (3)   Whenever a curb or sidewalk is used for temporary drive-over
purposes, a suitable wood mat or pad shall be placed over the same to prevent
damage to the sidewalk or curb, and to protect pedestrians from broken pieces
of walk or ruts worn into it.
         (a)   The mat or pad shall have a solid and smooth surface for the
entire width of the paved and used walk, and shall have chamfered edges, not to
exceed an angle of 30 degrees with the horizontal, fitting tightly to the walk
where the mat comes in contact with it.
         (b)   All mats shall be kept in good repair and free from holes, loose
parts, obstructions and waste material; except that sand shall be sprinkled on
the mats when they become slippery.
   (J)   Protection of pedestrians.
      (1)   Protection for pedestrians on sidewalks or walkways shall be
provided and maintained in conformity with this section during all times when
they might be endangered by the demolition operation.
      (2)   Such protection shall consist of barricades, fences or sidewalk
sheds approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety; except that an approved
sidewalk shall be provided and maintained whenever material is being moved over
the sidewalk or walkway by derrick, hoist or chute, or whenever the building
being demolished is more than 25 feet high and is located 15 feet or less from
the sidewalk or walkway.
   (K)   Maintenance of walkways. Where deemed necessary by the Street
Commissioner, a safe walkway, not less than four feet wide and of greater
width, shall be maintained as a continuation of abutting sidewalks at all
demolition operations.
   (L)   Barricades and fences.
      (1)   Barricades
         (a)   A “BARRICADE” is an obstruction that is thrown across a walkway
to prevent passage.
         (b)   Barricades shall be substantially built and not less than three
feet in height.
      (2)   Fences.
         (a)   A “FENCE” is a barrier intended to prevent intrusion or to mark
a boundary.
         (b)   Fences shall be substantially built, with tight boards, plywood
or other suitable material applied on the outer fence, and not less than six
feet in height.
      (3)   When openings are required for access to the premises, they shall
be equipped with sliding, in-swinging doors or gates, which shall be closed and
secured at the end of each work day.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 1-4-05)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.03 ELECTRIC STANDARDS.
   No electrical appliance, fixture, or part shall be installed in any building
in any place in the city unless it bears the approval certificate of
Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., or an equivalent testing organization.
('76 Code, § 7-19)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.04 FIRE EXITS.
   No building intended for the occupancy of people shall be constructed
without at least two exits so placed that a fire situated at or blocking one
exit will not also in the ordinary course of events block any other exit.
('76 Code, § 7-20)
Penalty, see § 150.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 92
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known
as the "Building Code of Greensburg, Indiana."
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
§ 150.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of Greensburg, Indiana, and shall be
construed in such a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
§ 150.22 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise clearly indicated by its context, the words and terms
defined in this section shall have these specified meanings.
   "BUILDING COMMISSIONER." Individuals employed by the Building Department
that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   "CLASS 1 STRUCTURE." Pursuant to IC 22-12-1-4, means any part of the
following:
      (1)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
         (a)   The public;
         (b)   Three or more tenants; or
         (c)   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
      (2)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in subdivision (1).
      (3)   Outdoor event equipment.
      (4)   Any class of buildings or structures that the commission determines
by rules to affect a building or structure described in subdivision (1), except
buildings or structures described in subsections (6) through (9).
      (5)   Subsection (1) includes a structure that contains three or more
condominium units (as defined in IC 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (6)   Subsection (1) does not include a building or structure that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (7)   Subsection (1) does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (8)   Subsection (1) does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (9)   Pursuant to IC 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
      (10)   A fence on the property of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure is
considered part of the structure and governed by the Building Commissioner in
accordance with the City of Greensburg Building Code.
   “CLASS 2 STRUCTURE.” Pursuant to IC 22-12-1-5, means any part of the
following:
      (1)   A townhouse or a building or structure that is intended to contain
or contains only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the
building or structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   An outbuilding for a structure described in subdivision (1), such
as a garage, barn or family swimming pool, including an above ground swimming
pool, unless any part of the outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1
structure.
      (3)   Subsection (1) does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, “townhouse” means
a single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of three or more attached
units in which each unit:
         (a)   Extends from foundation to roof;
         (b)   Is not more than three stories in height;
         (c)   Is separated from each adjoining unit by:
            1.   Two one-hour fire-resistance rated walls with exposure from
both sides; or
            2.   A common two-hour fire-resistance rated wall; and
         (d)   Has open space on at least two sides.
      (5)   Pursuant to IC 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
      (6)   A fence on the property of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure is
considered part of the structure and governed by the Building Commissioner in
accordance with the City of Greensburg Building Code.
   "CONSTRUCTION." Pursuant to IC 22-12-1-7, means any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site.
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used.
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication, or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class
2 structure at the site where it will be used.
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate, or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   "INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM." Pursuant to IC 22-12-1-14, means any part
of a building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part
fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly
at the building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or
another building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile
structure or a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   "MANUFACTURED HOME." pursuant to IC 22-12-1-16, has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. 5402 as it existed on January 1, 2003. This definition is as follows:
"MANUFACTURED HOME" means a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under this 42 U.S.C. 5402.
   "MOBILE STRUCTURE." Pursuant to IC 22-12-1-17, has the following definition:
      (1)   "MOBILE STRUCTURE" means any part of a fabricated unit that is
designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity.
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit.
   "PERSON." Pursuant to IC 22-12-1-18, means an individual, corporation,
limited liability company, partnership, unincorporated association, or
governmental entity.
   "STRUCTURE." Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   "VEHICULAR BRIDGE." Pursuant to IC 22-12-1-26, means any bridge that is
neither:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; or
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles; suspended between two or more
parts of a building or between two or more buildings.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03; Am. Ord. 2023-14, passed 9-12-23)
§ 150.23 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to IC 22-13-2-6, this subchapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under IC 22-15-
4; however, the provisions of this subchapter and the rules promulgated by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under IC 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to IC 22-13-2-9, this subchapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
§ 150.24 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with IC 22-13-2-11.
   (C)   Orders issued under IC 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.25 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the subchapter prior to commencement of construction.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.26 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant.
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished.
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks.
      (4)   If required by Indiana law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire
Marshal, pursuant to IC 22-15-3.
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
      (6)   The fee established by city ordinances.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.27 BUILDING PERMIT CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to satisfy the requirements of IC 36-1-
27-4.
   (B)   As used in this section, “CONFLICT OF INTEREST” means a direct or
indirect financial interest in the issuance of a permit, pursuant to IC 36-1-
27-1.
   (C)   As used in this section, “PERMIT” has the meaning set forth in IC 36-
7-4-1109(b).
   (D)   A building commissioner, building code official, or inspector of the
city may not issue a permit or oversee the issuance of a permit through a
subordinate if the building commissioner, building code official, or inspector
has a conflict of interest.
   (E)   A building commissioner, building code official, inspector, or other
employee of the city shall report a conflict of interest to the Director of
Planning and the City Attorney.
   (F)   Promptly upon receipt of a conflict of interest report made under this
section, the Director of Planning, in consultation with the City Attorney,
shall appoint a qualified temporary replacement building commissioner, building
code official, or inspector.
(Ord. 2019-23, passed 8-5-19)
§ 150.28 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee,
provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable building
laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws. Any person
receiving a building permit shall commence construction within six months of
the issuance of said building permit and construction shall be completed within
one year of the issuance of said building permit.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.29 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. 
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be issued
unless such building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building
or structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.30 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this subchapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this subchapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.31 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT. 
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work cooperatively
to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire
safety laws (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under IC 36-8-17).
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.32 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees owed pursuant to city ordinances, or inspection
fees owed pursuant to city ordinances) to the Building Commissioner the
Building Commissioner may withhold the issuance of subsequently requested
permits until such time that the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.33 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures.
   (C)   There is failure to comply with the subchapter.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.34 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance.
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place.
      (4)    If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner's agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this subchapter or any
state law pertaining to safety during construction.
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this subchapter or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation.
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.35 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to IC 36-1-6-4, the city may initiate a civil action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.36 RIGHT OF APPEAL. 
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter shall have the
right to petition for review of any order of the Building Commissioner. Such a
person may file a petition using either, or both, of the following procedures:
   (A)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter may
submit a petition for review to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, in accordance with IC 22-13-2-7.
      (2)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order that covers a
subject governed by IC 22-12, IC 22-13, IC 22-14, IC 22-15, a fire safety, or a
building rule.
      (3)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 Structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under IC 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
      (4)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review all
other orders issued under this subchapter that cover a subject governed by IC
22-12, IC 22-13, IC 22-14, IC 22-15, a fire safety rule or a building rule.
      (5)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any statute in
which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the order.
   (B)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court pursuant
to IC 36-1-6-9 and city ordinance.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by an order may petition for review with the
Board of Public Works and Safety of the city in accordance with this
subchapter.
      (2)   In the alternative, the appeal may be taken by way of petition to
any court within the county for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.37 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles of Title
675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in
this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards
         (b)   Indiana Building Code
      (2)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code
      (3)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code
      (4)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code
      (5)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code
      (6)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code
      (7)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code
      (8)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the clerk for the legislative body for public
inspection as required by IC 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this subchapter. Pursuant to IC 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted by
the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03) Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.38 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME
A18.a,2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by IC 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
Penalty, see § 150.99
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.50 UNSAFE BUILDING LAW ESTABLISHED.
   Under the provisions of IC 36-7-9, there is hereby established the City of
Greensburg Unsafe Building Law.
(Ord. 1997-18, passed 12-1-97)
§ 150.51 STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   IC 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby incorporated by reference in the
Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the city for the inspection,
repair, and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said law and the
provisions of this subchapter. In the event the provisions of this subchapter
conflict with the provisions of IC 36-7-9-1 through 36-8-9-28, then the
provisions of the state statute shall control.
(Ord. 1997-18, passed 12-1-97)
§ 150.52 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the City of Greensburg which are
determined after inspection by the Building Commissioner to be unsafe as
defined in this subchapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall
be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Ord. 1997-18, passed 12-1-97)
§ 150.53 REPAIR AND REMOVAL.
   The City Building Commissioner, as chief administrative officer of the
Planning/Zoning Department, shall be authorized to administer and to proceed
under the provisions of said law in ordering the repair or removal of any
buildings found to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified hereafter.
(Ord. 1997-18, passed 12-1-97)
§ 150.54 COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND STANDARDS.
   Wherever in the building regulations of the city or the Unsafe Building Law,
it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the
direction of the Building Commissioner, or any other officer of the city, this
shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of determining
whether the rules and standards established by ordinance have been complied
with; and no such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power
to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance
provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Ord. 1997-18, passed 12-1-97)
§ 150.55 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The description of an unsafe building contained in IC 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the City of Greensburg, Indiana, by adding the following
definition:
   "UNSAFE BUILDING" means any building or structure which has any or all of
the conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that such conditions
or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or safety of the
public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate
means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairways or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location.
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location.
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings.
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof was wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction.
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings.
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons
for the purpose of committing unlawful acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement of prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this city, or any law or ordinance of the state or city relating to the
condition, location, or structure of buildings.
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part member, or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics, required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, and
occupancy in the same location.
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Decatur County Board of Health
or State Board of Health to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in
such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease.
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire resistive construction is determined by the City of Greensburg
Fire Chief or the official in charge to be a fire hazard.
      (17)   Whenever any portions of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute nuisance or hazard to the public.
   (B)   The definition of "SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST" set forth in IC 36-
7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(Ord. 1997-18, passed 12-1-97)
§ 150.56 STANDARDS FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   All work for the reconstruction, repair, or demolition of buildings and
other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to
the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the
building laws, as defined in IC 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission (675 IAC), including 675 IAC 12-4-
9 and 675 IAC 12-4-11(a), shall be considered standard and acceptable practice
for all matters covered by this subchapter or orders issued pursuant to this
subchapter by the Building Commissioner of the City of Greensburg, Indiana.
(Ord. 1997-18, passed 12-1-97)
§ 150.57 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND ESTABLISHED.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is established in the operating budget of the city
in accordance with the provisions of IC 36-7-9-14. The proceeds from the permit
and inspection fees called for herein shall be paid as follows:
   (A)   The first $100 of each permit or inspection fee shall be paid to the
General Fund for the city.
   (B)   After the first $100 is paid, then the proceeds from the permit or
inspections shall be paid as follows:
      (1)   50% to the Unsafe Building Fund; and
      (2)   50% to the General Fund.
(Ord. 1997-18, passed 12-1-97; Am. Ord. 2002-20, passed 7-1-02)
§ 150.58 VIOLATIONS.
   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or any order issued by the Building Commissioner.
Any person violating the provisions of this subchapter or IC 36-7-9-28 shall
commit a Class C infraction for each day such violation continues.
(Ord. 1997-18, passed 12-1-97)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.24 through
150.38 may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or
continues. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the
operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter or in other city
ordinances. The assessment of the fines under this section shall be assessed by
the Building Commissioner and enforced, if necessary, by a civil action
initiated by the city, which shall require the violator to pay all court costs
and legal expenses, including attorney fees incurred by the city in collecting
said fines and assessments.
      (2)   The city shall also recover costs incurred by the city in enforcing
the terms of §§
150.20 through
150.38 and to also bring a civil action for the mandatory and injunctive relief
for the enforcement of, and to secure compliance with, any provisions of these
sections, or to bring an action to recover any penalties and costs incurred by
the city in enforcing the terms of these sections. In addition to the recovery
of the actual costs and expenses incurred by the city, the city shall also be
entitled to recover all costs, fines and expenses incurred in enforcing §§
150.20 through
150.38 or bringing any action in the courts, including, but not limited to, all
attorney fees and costs incurred by the city.
   (C)   The city, acting through the Planning Commission Director, may, in the
name of the city, bring certain actions in the circuit or superior court of the
county for the recovery of all costs incurred by the city in enforcing the
terms of §§
150.50 through
150.58, and to also bring action for the mandatory and injunctive relief for
the enforcement of, and to secure compliance with, any provisions of this
section, or bring an action to recover any penalties and costs incurred by the
city in enforcing the terms of §§
150.50 through
150.58.
   (D)   In addition to the recovery of the actual costs and expenses incurred
by the city, the city shall also be entitled to recover all costs, fines and
expenses incurred in enforcing this section or bringing any action in the
courts, including, but not limited to, all attorney fees and costs incurred by
the city in bringing said action.
(Ord. 1988-21, passed 11-7-88; Am. Ord. 1997-19, passed 12-1-97; Am. Ord. 10-2-
01; Am. Ord. 2003-7, passed 6-2-03)
CHAPTER 151: HOUSE NUMBERING; STRUCTURE IDENTIFICATION
Section
House Numbering
   
151.01   Plan adopted
   
151.02   Numbering required
   
151.03   Notice to owners
   
151.04   Numbering by city or owner's noncompliance
   
151.05   Collection of costs
   
151.06   Numbering of houses in future annexations
Structure Identification
   
151.15   Numbering required
   
151.16   Uniquely identifies structures
   
151.17   Requirements
   
151.18   Notice to owners; noncompliance
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Thoroughfare plan, see
Ch. 154
§ 151.01 PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The plan known as the Philadelphia plan system of numbering houses is
adopted in the city.
   (B)   The Philadelphia plan of numbering houses, as adopted, is as follows:
      (1)   Streets running north and south shall be divided by Main Street as
a base, with odd numbers on the west side and even numbers on the east side and
all streets extending north of Main Street shall be numbered north and all
streets extending south of Main Street shall be numbered south.
      (2)   Streets running east and west shall be divided by Broadway Street,
as a base, with odd numbers on the south side and even numbers on the north
side and all streets extending east of Broadway shall be numbered east and all
streets extending west of Broadway shall be numbered west.
      (3)   Streets extending north and south of Main Street and all streets
extending east and west of Broadway shall begin to number with 100 as a basis
for even numbers and 101 as a basis for odd numbers and each 20 feet along the
front property line of any street shall constitute a separate number, provided,
that the distance between any two cross streets on each block shall constitute
a separate serial of 100 and that each cross street or block north or south
from Main Street and each cross street or block east or west from Broadway
shall begin to number with the corresponding hundred as a serial that it is
distant removed from its base, allowing 100 as a serial for each block or the
distance between two cross streets.
('76 Code, § 22-43) (Ord. passed 5-12-11)
§ 151.02 NUMBERING REQUIRED.
   The owners of all houses or buildings in the city are required to number
their houses and buildings within the city in accordance with the plan set
forth in this chapter; the numbers to be placed on a conspicuous part of each
house or building and in figures not less than two inches in height.
('76 Code, § 22-44) (Ord. passed 5-12-11)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.03 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   On failure of the owner of any house or building within the city or his
agent, to number the same as required in this chapter, the Street Commissioner
of the city shall give such owner or his agent five days' notice in writing to
number the same.
('76 Code, § 22-45) (Ord. passed 5-12-11)
§ 151.04 NUMBERING BY CITY ON OWNER'S NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If the owner or his agent shall fail to comply with the notice pursuant to §
151.03 within the time prescribed therein, then the city, by its officers and
employees, shall enter on any such premises where such house or building is
situated and number such house or building and the cost of such work and labor,
including the cost of the numbers required, shall be at the expense of the
owner of the premises whereon such work shall have been done and such expense
shall constitute a lien on such property.
('76 Code, § 22-46) (Ord. passed 5-12-11)
§ 151.05 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever the city, through its officers and employees, shall, pursuant
to §
151.04, number any house or building on failure of the owner or his agent to
comply with the notice as provided in §
151.03, the officer or employee performing such numbering or procuring the same
to be done shall make out and file with the Clerk-Treasurer a certified
itemized bill of such work and expense describing the premises upon and on
account of which the work was done and the expense incurred, giving the date of
such work and the name of the owner of the premises, which bill shall be
retained by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall at once notify the owner of such premises,
or his agent, by mailing to his post office address a sealed written or printed
notice stating the amount of such bill, and on what account the same was
incurred and demanding payment, which notice shall be a demand for payment
within ten days from the date of mailing such notice.
   (C)   In case the amount of such bill is not paid within such ten days from
the date of mailing the notice, the expense shall become and the same is made a
lien on the property described in the bill and Clerk-Treasurer shall place the
amount of such bill on the tax duplicate against that property, indicating in
the entry the date and account on which the expense shall have been incurred
and that amount may be collected as delinquent taxes are collected or that lien
may be foreclosed, or the city may bring suit for the amount of such bill in
any court of competent jurisdiction against the owner of the premises and
collect the same together with all costs and, on payment or collection of any
such bill, together with all costs, such lien shall be satisfied and discharged
and shall be so entered of record.
('76 Code, § 22-47) (Ord. passed 5-12-11)
§ 151.06 NUMBERING OF HOUSES IN FUTURE ANNEXATIONS.
   House numbers shall be assigned to all houses in the various additions to
the city as the same are annexed and incorporated into the city.
('76 Code, § 22-48) (Ord. 1969-16, passed ll-3-69)
STRUCTURE IDENTIFICATION
§ 151.15 NUMBERING REQUIRED.
   All residences, commercial buildings, apartments, and mobile homes located
within the city shall be assigned a unique numeric, alphabetical, or alpha-
numeric designation. Commercial buildings include all business places and
manufacturing plants.
(Ord. 1990-7, passed 6-4-90)
§ 151.16 UNIQUELY IDENTIFIES STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All existing street numbers, apartment numbers, or mobile home lot
numbers currently in use within the city are hereby adopted as official address
numbers with the city, unless such numbers are not sufficiently unique to avoid
confusion as to the address which they identify.
   (B)   In the event that the street numbers, apartment numbers, or mobile
home lot numbers are not sufficiently unique to avoid confusion, the City
Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects shall assign new address
numbers to uniquely identify these structures.
   (C)   In the event new address numbers are created within the city, the City
Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects shall assign these in a logical
manner and shall provide this information to the Police, Fire, Street
Department and any other emergency services operating within the city, and to
the postal service.
   (D)   In the event the city annexes additional areas, these areas will be
assigned new address numbers by the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public
Projects. The new address numbers shall be assigned in a logical manner, and
shall uniquely identify the structures. These numbers shall be consistent and
uniform with the adjacent structures.
   (E)   Garages and outbuildings now existing or built in the future on lots
which are now currently assigned an address number, need not have a separate
address number assigned to them unless they are separate residences or business
places.
(Ord. 1990-7, passed 6-4-90)
§ 151.17 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All residences, commercial buildings, apartments, and mobile homes
shall place and maintain the address numbers assigned to them in a place that
is visible and readable from the street that is their street address. Each
digit of the address number shall be a minimum of three inches in height, and
be a color so as to make it stand out distinctly against its background. Each
address number shall be displayed in English. The address numbers may be placed
directly on the structure or on any other suitable place. Whenever the address
number is placed on any place other than the structure itself, it must be
positioned as to allow the structure to be readily identified with the address
number. Every separate apartment shall have its identifying letter or number,
as described above, either on the main entry door or within 12 inches of that
door. Every mobile home lot shall have its identifying letter or number, as
described above, located in such a manner that it can be seen from the driveway
or parking space assigned to that lot, and positioned so it identifies the lot
it is assigned to.
   (B)   Whenever a residence, commercial building, apartment, or mobile home
is located so that the principal accessway is other than the street it is on,
such as an alley or a shared roadway, then the structure's identification, as
described in this subchapter, shall be visible and readable from the accessway.
(Ord. 1990-7, passed 6-4-90)
§ 151.18 NOTICE TO OWNERS; NONCOMPLIANCE.
   No owner, occupant, or agent of any structure, newly-erected structure, or
structure moved to a new location shall refuse or fail, within 30 days of
notification by the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Projects of the
correct address of such structure, to place or cause to be placed, the correct
address number on the structure. No person shall take down, without authority,
or alter, deface, destroy, or conceal any number on any structure or place, or
allow an erroneous number to be placed or remain on the structure owned,
occupied, or controlled by him or her.
(Ord. 1990-7, passed 6-4-90)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
151.01 through
151.06 for which no penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than
$1,000. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The owner or the occupant, or the agent of any structure shall be
responsible for the provisions of §§
151.15 through
151.18. Any person that violates any part of §§
151.15 through
151.18 may be found guilty of a Class D infraction and may be fined not more
than $25 for each day which he or she allows the violation to exist.
(Ord. 1990-7, passed 6-4-90)
CHAPTER 152: RESERVED
CHAPTER 153: RESERVED
CHAPTER 154: THOROUGHFARE PLAN
Section
   
154.01   Short title; filing
   
154.02   Incorporation of maps, report, and drawing
   
154.03   Designation of thoroughfares
   
154.04   Compliance with plan; opening and widening streets
   
154.05   Location of streets
   
154.06   Compliance by Common Council
   
154.07   Permits
   
154.08   Street improvement program
   
154.09   Thoroughfare fund
   
154.10   Procedure; authority
   
154.11   Method; costs of projects
   
154.12   Priority of improvements
   
154.13   Authority of Plan Commission
   
154.14   Amendments
§ 154.01 SHORT TITLE; FILING.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the official
thoroughfare plan, a section of the Master Plan of the city.
('76 Code, § 19-53)
   (B)   Two copies of the official thoroughfare plan and ordinance and two
copies of the typical thoroughfare cross sections shall be kept on file in the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall be subject to public examination
during the regular office hours of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
('76 Code, § 19-68)
(Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
Statutory reference:
   Thoroughfare projects, see IC 36-9-6. et seq.
§ 154.02 INCORPORATION OF MAPS, REPORT, AND DRAWING.
   (A)   The official thoroughfare plan of the city consists of two maps, one
entitled Sheet 2 of 2, Greensburg, Indiana, Thoroughfare Plan, Jurisdictional
Area, dated 1964, and the other entitled Sheet 1 of 2, Greensburg, Indiana,
Thoroughfare Plan, dated 1964, which shows the location of existing and
proposed thoroughfares within and the area encompassing the environs of the
city, and are declared to be a part of this chapter. Notations, references,
indications, and other details shown on the official thoroughfare plan maps are
as much a part of this chapter as if they were fully described in the text of
this chapter.
('76 Code, § 19-54)
   (B)   A report entitled "Thoroughfare Plan, Greensburg, Indiana," dated
1964, which describes the thoroughfare plan, and a drawing entitled "Typical
Thoroughfare Cross Sections, Greensburg, Indiana," which shows cross sections
for streets as designated on the official thoroughfare plan maps, are as much a
part of this chapter as if they were fully described in the text of this
chapter.
('76 Code, § 19-55)
(Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
§ 154.03 DESIGNATION OF THOROUGHFARES.
   The thoroughfares are classified as to width and type in accordance with
their function as a part of the thoroughfare system, and are designated as
arterial, feeder, and residential streets as shown on the official thoroughfare
plan maps. Such streets are to be provided with the right-of-way widths shown
on the official thoroughfare plan as set out in §§
153.04 through
153.08 and are to be improved as required by
Chapter 153, providing for the control of the subdivision of land.
('76 Code, § 19-56) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
§ 154.04 COMPLIANCE WITH PLAN; OPENING AND WIDENING STREETS.
   Whenever a street designated on the official thoroughfare plan is to be
platted as a part of a subdivision of land, the right-of-way shall conform to
the policies and specified designations and indications in the official
thoroughfare plan, provided, that, where a street borders a tract of land to be
subdivided, the owner of such land shall be required to plat only one-half of
the right-of-way width designated for such street, measured at 90 degrees to
the center line thereof.
('76 Code, § 19-57) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
§ 154.05 LOCATION OF STREETS.
   (A)   Wherever the locations of streets are indicated on the official
thoroughfare plan as following existing roads or streets, or section or half-
section lines, or other established property lines, they shall conform to such
locations, however, streets lying wholly within a subdivision, and not
designated as following an existing road or a section line, may be varied in
their alignment when such variance promotes the plan of a neighborhood
development unit in accordance with good site planning principles, and if such
alignment provides for the continuity of traffic movement.
   (B)   Streets which follow irregular alignment, or indicate revised
alignments, or are not referenced to established lines, shall follow in a
general manner the alignment shown on the official thoroughfare plan. Their
alignment shall be subject to detailed surveys which may be made by the city,
the City Plan Commission or by other public agencies, or by the owners of land
to be subdivided. Such surveys shall be subject to the approval of the City
Plan Commission prior to the acquisition of land or the filing of subdivision
plans affecting such streets.
('76 Code, § 19-58) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
§ 154.06 COMPLIANCE BY COMMON COUNCIL.
   The Common Council shall be guided by and give consideration to the general
policy and pattern of development set out in the official thoroughfare plan in
the authorization, construction, alteration, or abandonment of public highways
and structures.
('76 Code, § 19-59) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
§ 154.07 PERMITS.
   In the case of permits authorized by the Common Council for the erection or
alteration of structures and other improvements, the permit shall be issued
only if the proposed street and thoroughfare rights-of-way as set forth by the
official thoroughfare plan will be protected from encroachment and, for
planning and zoning purposes, the proposed street and thoroughfare right-of-way
lines will be considered as the front line of lots and tracts bordering such
streets and thoroughfares.
('76 Code, § 19-60) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
§ 154.08 STREET IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to use funds available
for street improvement purposes to participate with the owners of lands
abutting streets within the city in the improvement of such streets in
accordance with the requirements of the Board of Public Works and Safety and
the standards for street improvements established in the subdivision
regulations. For any such participation project, the Board shall be governed by
the following policies:
   (A)   All alley and street intersections will be paved at city expense and
the cost of such work is not to be considered as a part of the city's share of
other street improvements.
   (B)   The cost of grading and excavating in connection with the improvement
of alleys and streets existing on June l, 1964, is to be considered a city
expense and not as a part of the city's share of other street and alley
improvements.
   (C)   The cost of grading and excavating in connection with the improvement
of streets and alleys dedicated after June l, 1964, is not to be considered a
part of the improvement cost in which the city can participate.
   (D)   The city may participate to the extent of 50% of the cost of improving
an alley located in a business district or industrial district, as shown in the
city zone map. The city shall not participate in the cost of improving alleys
other than those indicated above.
   (E)   The amount of the participation by the city in the cost of street
improvements is indicated below as a percentage of the total of such cost, as
may be modified by preceding statements, in accordance with the street
designation and width of surface to be improved, which may include curb and
gutter of the integral roll-type where that type of curb may be installed:
 
Width of Improved Surfaces (Feet) Street or Thoroughfare Designation
                                  Arterial Feeder Residential
24 to 28                          50%      40%    30%
29 to 30                          56       50     40
31 to 35                          70       60     50
36 to 40                          80       70     60
 
('76 Code, § 19-61) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
§ 154.09 THOROUGHFARE FUND.
   The Common Council may levy a tax annually of not to exceed $.5 on each $100
of taxable property with the city for the purpose of a thoroughfare fund, which
when collected shall be kept separate from the other funds of the city and
shall be a continuing fund to be drawn on by the Board of Public Works and
Safety for work done under, or in furtherance of, or in carrying out a part of
the official thoroughfare plan.
('76 Code, § 19-62) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
§ 154.10 PROCEDURE; AUTHORITY.
   In the carrying out of any project under the official thoroughfare plan, the
Board of Public Works and Safety shall proceed, and shall have authority under
the provisions of Chapter 44, Acts of the General Assembly of Indiana for 1931,
and all acts amendatory thereto, and the method of procedure shall comply with
the provisions of an Act of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana
entitled, "An act concerning municipal corporations," approved March 6, 1905,
and all acts amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto, except that the
provisions for remonstrance of resident freeholders shall not apply, provided
further, that, if it shall be determined that property shall be assessed within
a special benefit district, such Board shall determine the boundaries of such
district.
('76 Code, § 19-63) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
Statutory reference:
   Successor provisions to Chapter 44 of the Acts of 1931, see IC 36-9-6. et
seq.
§ 154.11 METHOD; COSTS OF PROJECTS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety, in the carrying out of any
project under the official thoroughfare plan adopted by this chapter, shall
consider and determine what proportionate part of the cost of such project, or
of any separate phase of improvement thereunder, shall be paid by the city out
of the thoroughfare fund, including any increase of damages ordered by any
court on appeal, as benefit to such city at large, and, at such time, shall
determine the amount, if any, of the total cost of any such phase of
improvement under such project, including damages awarded by such Board, which
shall be assessed as benefits on the real estate within a special benefit
district.
   (B)   In the event the cost of acquisition and the benefits assessed against
the city, by reason of any such project, shall at any time be in excess of the
amount of money then standing to the credit of the thoroughfare fund, the city
shall have the power, and the Common Council is authorized, by ordinance, to
issue a bond in a sum sufficient to pay for such benefit, or any part thereof,
as it may be deemed necessary, the same to be issued and sold in the same form
and manner, and with the same rate of interest and with such maturities as are
by law provided for the issuance and sale of bonds of the city for the general
purposes thereof, and the proceeds of the sale of such bonds shall be deposited
in, and credited to, the thoroughfare fund, to be used in the payment for such
cost of acquisition and the benefits assessed against the city at large and any
increased damages which may be ordered paid by any court on appeal.
('76 Code, § 19-64) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds for thoroughfare projects, see IC 36-9-6.-11 and 36-9-6.-12
§ 154.12 PRIORITY OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Plan Commission may recommend to the Board of Public Works and
Safety the order in which improvements made pursuant to this chapter and to be
paid for in part out of the thoroughfare fund shall be undertaken and carried
out, and when so made, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall not start or
commence, by resolution or otherwise, any work, appropriation or improvement
pursuant to this chapter other than in the order designed by such
recommendation.
('76 Code, § 19-65) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
§ 154.13 AUTHORITY OF PLAN COMMISSION.
   The City Plan Commission may:
   (A)   Determine lines for new, extended, widened, or narrowed thoroughfares
in any portion of its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Certify to the Common Council the amended or additional plan under the
same procedure as established for the certification and approval of the
official thoroughfare plan.
('76 Code, § 19-66) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
Cross-reference:
   Plan Commission, see §
33.50 -
33.59
§ 154.14 AMENDMENTS.
   In addition to the provisions of § 154.3, amendments to the official
thoroughfare plan may be initiated as follow:
   (A)   The Common Council may direct the City Plan Commission to prepare an
amendment, as desired, and submit it to public hearing within 60 days after
formal written request by the Common Council.
   (B)   The owners of 50% or more of the area of property abutting on that
part of a street which is proposed to be changed may also petition the Common
Council requesting an amendment to the official thoroughfare plan.
('76 Code, § 19-67) (Ord. 1964-3, passed 6-1-64)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of amendment, see IC 36-7-5-4
CHAPTER 155: RESERVED
CHAPTER 156: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose, Objectives
   
156.01   Statutory authorization
   
156.02   Findings of fact
   
156.03   Statement of purpose
   
156.04   Methods of reducing flood loss
Definitions
   
156.10   Definitions
General Provisions
   
156.15   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
156.16   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
156.17   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
156.18   Compliance
   
156.19   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
156.20   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
156.21   Interpretation
   
156.22   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
156.30   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
156.31   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements
   
156.32   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
156.33   Administrative procedures
   
156.34   Map maintenance activities
   
156.35   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
156.40   General standards
   
156.41   Specific standards
   
156.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
156.43   Critical facilities
   
156.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
156.45   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
156.46   Standards for identified fringe
   
156.47   Standards for SFHAs not identified on a map
 
   
156.99   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, OBJECTIVES
§ 156.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in IC 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Common Council of the City of Greensburg does hereby adopt the following
floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 1990-16, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 1995-5,
passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 1998-17, passed 8-31-98; Am. Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-
05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare. Additionally, structures
that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss. In order to minimize the threat of
such damages and to achieve the purposes hereinafter set forth, these
regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-9-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27,
passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE. 
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health.
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects.
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions.
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains.
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
area.
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas.
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained.
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain.
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible.
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 1990-16, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 1995-5,
passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13;
Am. Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.04 OBJECTIVES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities.
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters.
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage.
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
DEFINITIONS
§ 156.10 DEFINITIONS. 
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them meaning they have in common
usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   “ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.” A structure with a floor area of 400 square feet or
less that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure and the
use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure; an accessory
structure specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      (1)   Accessory structures are considered walled and roofed where the
structure includes at least two outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof.
      (2)   Examples of accessory structures include but are not necessarily
limited to two-car detached garages (or smaller), carports, storage and tool
sheds, and small boathouses.
      (3)   The following may have uses that are incidental or accessory to the
principal structure on a parcel but are generally not considered to be
accessory structures by the NFIP:
         (a)   Structures in which any portion is used for human habitation,
whether as a permanent residence or as temporary or seasonal living quarters,
such as a detached garage or carriage house that includes an apartment or guest
quarters, or a detached guest house on the same parcel as a principal
residence.
         (b)   Structures used by the public, such as a place of employment or
entertainment.
         (c)   Development that does not meet the NFIP definition of a
structure for floodplain management purposes. Examples include, but are not
necessarily limited to, a gazebo, pavilion, picnic shelter, or carport that is
open on all sides (roofed but not walled).
   “ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE).” Any walled and roofed expansion to
the perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common
load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which
is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-
bearing walls, is new construction.
   “ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE.” A dam, impoundment, channel relocation,
change in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area
of the channel or the channel capacity, or any other modification which may
alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or velocity of the flow of
water during conditions of the base flood.
   “APPEAL.” A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter, a request for a variance, or a
challenge of a Board decision.
   “AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.” The land within a community subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   “BASE FLOOD.” The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% annual chance
flood or 100-year flood.
   “BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).” The water surface elevation of the base flood
in relation to a specified datum, usually the North American Vertical Datum of
1988.
   “BASEMENT.” That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   “BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD LAYER (BAFL).” Floodplain studies and any
corresponding floodplain maps prepared and/or approved by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources which provide base flood elevation information,
floodplain limits, and/or floodway delineations for flood hazards identified by
approximate studies on the currently effective FIRM (Zone A) and/or for
waterways where the flood hazard is not identified on available floodplain
mapping.
   “BUILDING.” See “STRUCTURE.”
   “COMMUNITY.” A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas within its jurisdiction.
   “CRITICAL FACILITY.” A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   “DEVELOPMENT.”
      (1)   For floodplain management purposes, any man-made change to improved
or unimproved real estate including but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of boat lifts, docks, piers,
and seawalls;
         (g)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (h)   Storage of materials; or
         (i)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   “DEVELOPMENT” does not include activities such as the maintenance
of existing structures and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   “ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.” A FEMA form that is routinely reviewed and approved
by the White House Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork
Reduction Act, that is encouraged to be used to collect certified elevation
information.
   “ENCLOSED AREA (ENCLOSURE).” An area of a structure enclosed by walls on all
sides.
   “ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR.” See “LOWEST FLOOR” and “ENCLOSED AREA.”
   “EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   “EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   “FEMA.” The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   “FILL.” For floodplain management purposes, any material deposited or placed
which has the effect of raising the level of the ground surface above the
natural grade elevation. Fill material includes but is not limited to
consolidated material such as concrete and brick and unconsolidated material
such as soil, sand, gravel, and stone.
   “FLOOD OR FLOODING.”
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of
normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and
deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   “FLOOD OR FLOODING” also includes the collapse or subsidence of
land along the shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result of erosion
or undermining caused by waves or current of water exceeding anticipated
cyclical levels that result in a flood as defined above.
   “FLOOD HAZARD AREA.” Areas subject to the 1% annual chance flood (See
“SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA”).
   “FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).” An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a “DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM).”
   “FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).” The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   “FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA.” Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see “FLOOD”).
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.” The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.” Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. The term describes such state or local regulations in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   “FLOOD PRONE AREA.” Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source (see “FLOODPLAIN”).
   “FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING).” A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   “FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.” A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG.
   “FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG).” The BFE plus two feet at any given location
in the SFHA (see “FREEBOARD”).
   “FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulative increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   “FREE BOARD.” A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   “FRINGE OR FLOOD FRINGE.” The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   “FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE.” A use which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The
term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for
the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship
repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
   “HARDSHIP.” As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
city requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   “HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a
structure.
   “HISTORIC STRUCTURE.” Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by an
approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior or directly
by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs.
   “HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS.” Analyses performed by a
professional engineer licensed by the State of Indiana, in accordance with
standard engineering practices that are accepted by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and FEMA, used to determine the base flood, other frequency
floods, flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries, and flood
profiles.
   “INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL-EVALUATION SERVICE (ICC-ES) REPORT.” A document
that presents the findings, conclusions, and recommendations from a particular
evaluation. ICC-ES reports provide information about what code requirements or
acceptance criteria were used to evaluate a product, and how the product should
be identified and installed.
   “LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD).” A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   “LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).” A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They are broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   “CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR).” FEMA's comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, result in modification of the
SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
      (2)   “CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F).” A
letter from FEMA stating that a proposed structure that will be elevated by
fill would not be inundated by the base flood.
      (3)   “LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).” An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a building or area of land
is not located in a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation
data. A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      (4)   “LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT OUT AS SHOWN (LOMA-OAS).” An official
determination by FEMA that states the property or building is correctly shown
outside the SFHA as shown on an effective NFIP map. Therefore, the mandatory
flood insurance requirement does not apply. An
out-as-shown determination does not require elevations.
      (5)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).” An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (6)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F).” FEMA's
modification of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill
outside the existing regulatory floodway.
   “LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   “LOWEST FLOOR.” For floodplain management purposes, the lowest elevation
described among the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor of a building.
      (2)   The basement floor.
      (3)   The garage floor if the garage is connected to the building.
      (4)   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or pillars.
      (5)   The floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement, below an
elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to
the flow of floodwaters. Designs for meeting the flood opening requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
         (b)   At least two openings are designed and maintained for the entry
and exit of floodwater; these openings provide a total net area of at least one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher. Doorways
and windows do not qualify as openings.
      (6)   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or columns in a
coastal high hazard area (as that term is defined in 44 CFR 59.1), as long as
it meets the requirements of 44 CFR 60.3.
   “MANUFACTURED HOME.” A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
“MANUFACTURED HOME” does not include a “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.”
   “MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   “MITIGATION.” Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
mitigation is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
cost of disaster response and recovery.
   “NATURAL GRADE.” For floodplain management purposes, the elevation of the
undisturbed natural surface of the ground. Fill placed prior to the date of the
initial identification of the flood hazard on a FEMA map is also considered
natural grade.
   “NEW CONSTRUCTION.” For floodplain management purposes, any structure for
which the “START OF CONSTRUCTION” commenced on or after the effective date of
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   “NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   “NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88).” As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   “OBSTRUCTION.” Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   “ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD.” The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year (see “REGULATORY FLOOD”)
   “PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR).” An official republication of a community's
FEMA map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   “PREFABRICATED BUILDING.” A building that is manufactured and constructed
using prefabrication. It consists of factory-made components or units that are
transported and assembled on-site to form the complete building.
   “PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND.” At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.” A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   “REGULATORY FLOOD.” The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is
acceptable to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and
the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any
location is as defined in §
156.16 . The “REGULATORY FLOOD” is also known by the term “BASE FLOOD,” “ONE-
PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD,” and “100-YEAR FLOOD.”
   “REPETITIVE LOSS.” Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   “RIVERINE.” Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   “SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY.” Any facility involved in the storage or
disposal of non-liquid, non-soluble materials ranging from municipal garbage to
industrial wastes that contain complex and sometimes hazardous substances.
Solid waste also includes sewage sludge, agricultural refuse, demolition
wastes, mining wastes, and liquids and gases stored in containers.
   “SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA)” or “AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD” or
“FLOODPLAIN.” Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Special flood hazard areas are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on Flood Insurance Rate
Maps, Flood Insurance Studies, Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps and Flood
Hazard Boundary Maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30, A99, or VE. The SFHA
includes areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal, state or
local sources of data including but not limited to best available flood layer
maps provided by or approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
historical flood information reflecting high water marks, previous flood
inundation areas, and flood prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   “START OF CONSTRUCTION.” Includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of manufactured home on a foundation;
permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as cleaning,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   “STRUCTURE.” A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground. The term includes a manufactured home,
as well as a prefabricated building. It also includes recreational vehicles
installed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   “SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.” Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   “SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.” Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “START OF CONSTRUCTION” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “REPETITIVE LOSS”
or “SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements which have been
identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   “VARIANCE.” A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   “VIOLATION.” The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   “WALLED AND ROOFED.” A building that has two or more exterior rigid walls
and a fully secured roof and is affixed to a permanent site.
   “WATERCOURSE.” A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 1990-16, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 1995-5,
passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13;
Am. Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.15 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard (SFHAs) within
the jurisdiction of the city as identified in § 156.16, including any
additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the city.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27,
passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.16 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city, delineated as an “AE Zone”
on the Decatur County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated October 16, 2013 shall be determined from the 1% annual chance flood
profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Decatur County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) dated
October 16, 2013 as well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
Should the floodway limits not be delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
for a studied SFHA designated as an “AE Zone,” the limits of the floodway will
be according to the best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city, delineated as an “A Zone” on
the Decatur County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map,
dated October 16, 2013, as well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best available flood layer provided by
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage
area from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available flood layer data, the party needs to replace
existing data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 1990-16, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 1995-5,
passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 1995-15, passed 7-3-95; Am. Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05;
Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.17 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27,
passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.18 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the most conservative
(highest) base flood elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed
structure; or for other developments, affecting any part of the area of the
development.
   (C)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27,
passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.19 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 1990-16, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 1995-5,
passed 4-3-95; Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am.
Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.20 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) with base flood elevations provided (riverine or lacustrine Zone AE) on
the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on the
profiles or table of still water elevations shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the natural grade elevation of the site in question is at or above
the base flood elevation and a LOMA or LOMR-FW is obtained, the floodplain
regulations will not be applied provided the LOMA or LOMR-FW is not
subsequently superseded or invalidated.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27,
passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.21 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements.
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body.
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27,
passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.22 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this
chapter does not create any liability on the part of the city, the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this chapter, or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 1990-16, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 1995-5,
passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13;
Am. Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.30 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator for all development activities located wholly within,
partially within, or in contact with an identified special flood hazard area.
Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his/her
authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual
commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Such
applications shall include, but not be limited to plans drawn to scale showing
the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question,
existing or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or
equipment, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Specifically
the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of an
existing structure, or an addition to an existing building, a detailed quote
and description of the total work to be completed including but not limited to
interior work, exterior work, and labor as well as a certified valuation of the
existing (pre-improved or pre-damaged) structure.
      (5)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (6)   A letter from a licensed professional surveyor or engineer noting
that an elevation reference benchmark has been established or confirmed for
those projects requiring elevations to be met.
      (7)   Verification that connection to either a public sewer system or to
an approved on-site septic system is available and approved by the respective
regulatory agency for proposed structures to be equipped with a restroom,
kitchen or other facilities requiring disposal of wastewater.
      (8)   Plans showing elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures in Zones A, AH, and AE.
Elevation should be in NAVD 88.
      (9)   Plans showing elevation (in NAVD 88) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (10)   Plans showing location and specifications for flood openings for
any proposed structure with enclosed areas below the flood protection grade.
      (11)   Plans showing materials to be used below the flood protection
grade for any proposed structure are flood resistant.
      (12)   Plans showing how any proposed structure will be anchored to
resist flotation or collapse.
      (13)   Plans showing how any electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities are designed and/or
located. Elevation should be in NAVD 88.
      (14)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis is required, and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR
for approval. Once DNR approval is obtained, a FEMA Conditional Letter of Map
Revision must be obtained prior to construction (see §
156.32(B)(8) and §
156.34 for additional information).
      (15)   Any additional information, as requested by the Floodplain
Administrator, which may be necessary to determine the disposition of a
proposed development or structure with respect to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Construction stage. Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an
elevated structure or structure constructed on fill it shall be the duty of the
applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator an elevation certificate
for the building under construction. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the elevation certificate. Any deficiencies detected during the review shall be
corrected by the applicant before work is allowed to continue. Failure to
submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction.
      (1)   Upon completion of construction of any structure requiring
certification of elevation, an elevation certificate which depicts the “as-
built” lowest floor elevation and other applicable elevation data is required
to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator. The elevation
certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor and certified by the same.
      (2)   Upon completion of construction of an elevated structure
constructed on fill, a fill report is required to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to verify the required standards were met, including
compaction.
      (3)   Upon completion of construction of a floodproofing measure, a
floodproofing certificate is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator. The floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or architect
and certified by same.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27,
passed 12-10-24) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.31 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor; or floodproofing, it shall be
the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or
floodproofed elevation, as built.
         (a)   The certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by the same.
         (b)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
      (2)   Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification shall
be at the permit holders’ risk. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
lowest floor and floodproofing elevation survey data submitted.)
      (3)   The permit holder shall correct deficiencies detected by such
review before any further work is allowed to proceed.
      (4)   Failure to submit the survey or failure to make the corrections
required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.32 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Evaluate application for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied.
      (3)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
      (4)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
      (5)   Advise permittee that additional federal, state and/or local
permits may be required. If specific federal, state and/or local permits are
known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file
with the floodplain development permit.
      (6)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas,
must meet the development standards of these regulations.
      (7)   For applications to improve structures, including alterations,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Verify and document the market value of the pre-damaged or pre-
improved structure.
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement; or the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition; or, the combined costs
of improvements and repair, if applicable, to the market value of the pre-
damaged or pre-improved structure. The cost of all work must be included in the
project costs, including work that might otherwise be considered routine
maintenance. Items/activities that must be included in the cost shall be in
keeping with guidance published by FEMA to ensure compliance with the NFIP and
to avoid any conflict with future flood insurance claims of policyholders
within the community.
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of substantial improvement for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flood, the determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage as specified in the
definition of substantial damage.
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the applicable general and specific standards in §§
156.40 through
156.47 are required.
      (8)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (9)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
156.44,
156.45(A), and
156.47. Maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual permit/
authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (10)   Verify the upstream drainage area of any proposed development site
near any watercourse not identified on a FEMA map to determine if division (B)
(9) is applicable.
      (11)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
156.31.
      (13)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
156.31.
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with §
156.33.
      (15)   Coordinate with insurance adjusters prior to permitting any
proposed work to bring any flood-damaged structure covered by a standard flood
insurance policy into compliance (either a substantially damaged structure or a
repetitive loss structure) to ensure eligibility for ICC funds.
      (16)   Ensure that an approved connection to a public sewer system or an
approved on-site septic system is planned for any structures (residential or
non-residential) to be equipped with a restroom, kitchen or other facilities
requiring disposal of wastewater.
      (17)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
      (18)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke
permits and take corrective actions in accordance with §
156.34.
      (19)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter in accordance with §
156.33.
      (20)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and associated FEMA follow-
up in accordance with §
156.34 . 
      (21)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (22)   Request any additional information which may be necessary to
determine the disposition of a proposed development or structure with respect
to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1990-16, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 1995-5,
passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13;
Am. Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.33 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and terms of the permit. In exercising this
power, the Administrator has a right,
upon presentation of proper credential, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection
or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop-work orders.
      (1)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Floodplain management records.
      (1)   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention
of public records records of actions associated with the administration of this
chapter shall be kept on file and maintained under the direction of the
Floodplain Administrator in perpetuity. These records include permit
applications, plans, certifications, Flood Insurance Rate Maps; Letter of Map
Change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits; determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation of
elevations required by this chapter; notifications to adjacent communities,
FEMA, and the state related to alterations of watercourses; assurances that the
flood
carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained; documentation
related to appeals and variances, including justification for issuance or
denial; and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   These records shall be available for public inspection at
Greensburg City Hall, 314 W Washington St., Greensburg, IN 47240.
   (E)   Periodic inspection. Once a project is completed, periodic inspections
may be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
Floodplain Administrator shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credential, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the
department at any reasonable hour for
the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
(Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.34 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet NFIP minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved
by FEMA, and to ensure that the city's flood maps, studies and other data
identified in §
156.16 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate, floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries.
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area.
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have required
technical data for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision or Letter of Map
Revision and submitted to FEMA. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources
will review the submittals as part of a partnership with FEMA. The submittal
should be mailed to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources at the address
provided on the FEMA form (MT-2) or submitted through the online Letter of Map
Change website. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be
the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a Conditional Letter of
Map Revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for
proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor of the city and may be
submitted to FEMA at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the city have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the Decatur County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map accurately represent the city
boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of the city
suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new
area for which the city has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.35 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests
for variances from requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Decatur
County Circuit Court.
   (C)   In considering such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters at the site.
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (E)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter shall only be granted
when the Board can make positive findings of fact based on evidence submitted
at the hearing for the following:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship as defined in §
156.10.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (F)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
156.44,
156.45(A),
156.47 may be granted.
   (G)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
156.44,
156.45(A),
156.47 will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
Variances shall not be issued within any designated regulatory floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §§
156.40 through
156.47 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
   (J)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use.
   (K)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (L)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (M)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (N)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 156.40 GENERAL STANDARDS. 
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction, reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive
loss structure, and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements must incorporate methods
and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG for
residential structures. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above
the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components below the FPG for non-residential structures. Water and sewer
pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other
waterproofed service facilities may be located below the FPG.
   (E)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is less.
   (J)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development.
   (K)   Fill projects that do not involve a structure must be protected
against erosion and scour during flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk
heading. If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three
feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
   (L)   Non-conversion agreements shall be required for all new or
substantially improved elevated structures with an enclosure beneath the
elevated floor, accessory structures, and open-sided shelters.
   (M)   Construction of new solid waste disposal facilities, hazard waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27,
passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data or
flood depths have been provided, as set forth in §
156.16, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Building protection requirement. In addition to the general standards
described in §
156.40 , structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a residential structure.
      (2)   Construction or placement of a non-residential structure.
      (3)   Addition or improvement made to an existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land). An addition and/or
improvement project that is continuous in scope or time is considered as one
project for permitting purposes.
      (4)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred (the costs of any proposed additions or
improvements beyond restoring the damaged structure to its before damaged
condition must be included in the cost).
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site.
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (7)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (8)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous repair, addition or improvement constructed since the community's
first floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structures shall meet provisions described in §§
156.44 through
156.47 and applicable general standards described in §
156.40.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor; including basement,
at or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate
a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)
(3). Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of division (B)
(4) must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If there are multiple enclosed areas, each is required to meet the
requirements for enclosures, including the requirement for flood openings in
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening.
            3.   If the floor of the enclosure is below the BFE, the openings
must be located wholly below the BFE.
            4.   If the floor of the enclosure is at or above the BFE, but
below the FPG, the openings must be located wholly below the FPG.
            5.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings.
            6.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
            7.   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A residential structure may be constructed on a fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
         (b)   Fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
         (c)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot
vertical.
         (d)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      (5)   A residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation (also called chain wall,
raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-wall-with-fill) must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (C)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any non-residential
structures (excludes accessory structures) shall meet provisions described in
§§
156.44 through
156.47 and applicable general standards described in §
156.40.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction, or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (excludes accessory
structures) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
or above the FPG or be floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid
foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient
to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with the standards of division (C)(3). Should fill be used to
elevate a structure, the standards of division (C)(4) must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If more than one enclosed area is present, each must have openings
on exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening.
            3.   If the floor of the enclosure is below the BFE, the openings
must be located wholly below the BFE.
            4.   If the floor of the enclosure is at or above the BFE, but
below the FPG, the openings must be located wholly below the FPG.
            5.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings.
            6.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
            7.   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A non-residential structure may be constructed on fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   Shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep before
compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the Standard or
Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing compliance shall
be retained in the permit file.
         (b)   Shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below the BFE.
         (c)   Shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
         (d)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   Shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      (5)   A non-residential structure may be floodproofed in accordance with
the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (6)   A non-residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in the SFHA:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (B)(3).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site in the SFHA shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days and be fully licensed and
ready for use on a public highway (defined as being on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (b)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of
an accessory structure must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Shall have a floor area of 400 square feet or less.
      (2)   Use shall be limited to parking of vehicles and limited storage.
      (3)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (4)   Shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials.
      (5)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (6)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (7)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (8)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (C)(3).
      (9)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the structure from its continued designation as an accessory
structure.
   (F)   Free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar
development. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of free-standing
pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar development must meet the
following standards:
      (1)   Shall have open sides (having not more than one rigid wall).
      (2)   Shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement.
      (3)   Shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials below the FPG.
      (4)   Any electrical, heating, plumbing and other service facilities
shall be located at/above the FPG.
      (5)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the development from its continued designation as a free-standing
pavilion, gazebo, carport, or similar open-sided development.
   (G)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. Within SFHAs, all newly
placed aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks shall meet the requirements for
a non-residential structure as required in division (C).
(Ord. 1990-16, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 1995-5,
passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 1998-17, passed 8-31-98; Am. Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-
05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and all other proposed new development (including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions), which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is less.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   (G)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 1990-16, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 1995-5,
passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 1998-17, passed 8-31-98; Am. Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-
05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.43 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA.
   (B)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be permissible within
the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is available.
      (1)   Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site.
      (2)   Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that
toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters.
      (3)   Access routes elevated to or above the FPG shall be provided to all
critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27,
passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.44 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   Located within SFHAs, established in §
156.16, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. Under the provisions of the
Flood Control Act (see IC 14-28-1) a permit for construction in a floodway from
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance
of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or
obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation
activities such as filling, grading, clearing, and paving undertaken before the
actual start of construction of the structure. General licenses and exemptions
to the requirements of the Flood Control Act (see IC 14-28-1 and 31 IAC 10) may
apply to qualified additions/improvements to existing lawful residential
structures, rural bridges, logjam removals, wetland restoration, utility line
crossings, outfall projects, creek rock removal, and prospecting.
   (A)   If the site is in a regulatory floodway as established in § 156.16,
the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the
application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources and apply for approval for construction in a
floodway, provided the activity does not qualify for a general license or
exemption (see IC 14-28-1 or 312 IAC 10).
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
approval has been granted by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for
construction in the floodway, or evidence provided by an applicant that the
development meets specified criteria to qualify for a general license or
exemption to the requirement of the Flood Control Act. The floodplain
development permit shall meet the provisions contained in this subchapter.
   (C)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than an
approval issued for construction in a floodway issued by the Indiana Department
of Natural Resources, or the specified criteria used to qualify for a general
license or exemption to the Flood Control Act for a specific site/project.
However, a community's more restrictive regulations (if any) shall take
precedence.
   (D)   In floodway areas identified on the FIRM, development shall cause no
increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge
without first obtaining a Conditional Letter of Map Revision and meeting
requirements of §
156.34(A). A Conditional Letter of Map Revision cannot be issued for
development that would cause an increase in flood levels affecting a structure
and such development should not be permitted.
   (E)   In floodway areas identified by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources through detailed or approximate studies but not yet identified on the
effective FIRM as floodway areas, the total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not adversely affect the efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity
of the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as an increase in the elevation
of the regulatory flood of at least fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined
by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under the project condition to that
under the natural or pre-floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (F)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the city shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR 65.12.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27,
passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.45 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27,
passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.46 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is in the fringe (either identified on the FIRM or identified by
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources through detailed or approximate
studies and not identified on a FIRM), the Floodplain Administrator may issue
the local floodplain development permit provided the provisions contained in
this subchapter have been met.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13; Am. Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.47 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   (A)   If a proposed development site is near a waterway with no SFHA
identified on a map, the Floodplain Administrator shall verify the drainage
area upstream of the site. If the drainage area upstream of the site is
verified as being greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until written
approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
(Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code for the city. All violations
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   (1)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations.
      (2)   All costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons
responsible.
(Ord. 1990-16, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 1995-5,
passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 8-5-13;
Am. Ord. 2024-27, passed 12-10-24)
CHAPTER 157: LAND SURVEYING
Section
   
157.01   Definitions
   
157.02   Recording of plat
   
157.03   Contents of plat
   
157.04   Certificates of review
   
157.05   Plat specifications
   
157.06   Fee
   
157.07   Public hearings
   
157.08   Documents must be on public record
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "LAND SURVEYOR" and "SURVEY" shall have the meanings set out in IC 36-2-19.
(Ord. 1997-16, passed 9-2-97)
§ 157.02 RECORDING PLAT.
   In addition to the conditions of IC 36-2-19-4, this chapter requires that
when any land surveyor has prepared a plat of any original, retracement, or
record document survey of real estate located in Decatur County, Indiana, then
either the land surveyor or the owner of the platted real estate shall record
that plat in the office of Recorder of Decatur County, Indiana upon any of the
following events:
   (A)   When a new tax parcel is created;
   (B)   When no previous survey of the parcel has been recorded;
   (C)   When the monuments, monument references or any part of the description
varies from the last recorded survey of the parcel;
   (D)   Whenever the boundary survey shall be used to establish distance
requirements or variances of distance requirements for any building permit,
building improvement permit, any other permit required for a structure or
improvement under any ordinance or applicable state law; or
   (E)   Whenever a boundary line is being changed by adverse possession, court
order, resubdivision of an existing plat or in any other manner that changes a
boundary line.
(Ord. 1997-16, passed 9-2-97)
§ 157.03 CONTENTS OF PLAT.
   The plat of survey under this chapter shall contain the following:
   (A)   The name of the current real estate owner as shown upon the real
estate tax records of Decatur County or an annotation if the surveyor believes
the tax records are erroneous or should be corrected;
   (B)   The parent tract and the tax parcel number of the parent tract from
which a plat of survey of a smaller area is taken from or derived from a parent
tract;
   (C)   The area of each surveyed tract;
   (D)   A statement indicating the existence or absence of any improvements on
each survey tract at the time of the plat's recordation;
   (E)   A description or diagram of any variances or easements being created
on the tract;
   (F)   All flood information;
   (G)   Annotation of all adjoining real estate owners based upon the county
tax records;
   (H)   An owner's certificate and a surveyor's certificate;
   (I)   An executed certificate of city review as set out in §
157.04.
(Ord. 1997-16, passed 9-2-97)
§ 157.04 CERTIFICATES OF REVIEW.
   Any plat of survey shall contain the following certificates of review before
the Recorder of Decatur County, Indiana shall accept the document for
recordation:
   (A)   If the real estate is located in Decatur County outside the City of
Greensburg the certificate shall include the following:
   DECATUR COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION CERTIFICATE
This plat of survey has been reviewed by                    as the designated
representative of the Decatur County Area Plan Commission on the       day of
     , 199  . Such plat conforms to the zoning and use ordinances of Decatur
County, Indiana and shall be the document of record from which the Decatur
County Area Plan Commission or the Decatur County Board of Zoning Appeals shall
determine all issues under any Decatur County ordinance.
Certified this     day of            , 199   .
               Decatur County Area Plan Commission
               By:                      
   OR
This plat of survey has been submitted to the Decatur County Area Plan
Commission for review and approval under Decatur County ordinances and law and
it has been approved for recordation under the process required by law. This
plat was formally approved by the Decatur County Area Plan Commission at a
public hearing held according to law on the      day of             , 199  .
               Decatur County Area Plan Commission
               By:                      
   (B)   If the real estate is located within the boundaries of the City of
Greensburg, Indiana, then the certificate shall instead include the following:
   GREENSBURG CITY PLAN COMMISSION CERTIFICATE
This plat of survey has been reviewed by                as the designated
representative of the Greensburg City Plan Commission on the     day of
                     , 199  . Such plat conforms to the zoning and use
ordinances of the City of Greensburg, Indiana and shall be the document of
record from which the City of Greensburg Plan Commission or the City of
Greensburg Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine all issues under any City of
Greensburg ordinance.
Certified this     day of                   , 199  .
            City of Greensburg Plan Commission
            By:                               
   OR
This plat of survey has been submitted to the City of Greensburg Plan
Commission for review and approval under Greensburg City ordinances and it has
been approved for recordation under the process required by law. This plat was
formally approved by the Greensburg City Plan Commission at a public hearing
held according to the law on the     day of                  , 199  .
Certified this     day of                  , 199  .
               City of Greensburg Plan Commission
               By:                               
   (C)   All plats of survey shall contain the certificate of the county
auditor:
   AUDITOR'S CERTIFICATE
The office of the Decatur County Auditor has received an exact copy of this
plat this      day of                       , 199  .
Certified this      day of                   , 1999  .
(Ord. 1997-16, passed 9-2-97)
§ 157.05 PLAT SPECIFICATIONS.
   This plat of survey shall be upon an 18 inch by 24 inch minimum, 24 inch by
36 inch maximum mylar with a one-half inch border on all sides except the left
side which shall be two inches and contain all information required under this
chapter. The certificate triplicate of county review shall be on the face sheet
or front page.
(Ord. 1997-16, passed 9-2-97)
§ 157.06 FEE.
   (A)   The fee for recording the plat of survey shall be collected by the
Decatur County Recorder in the amount authorized by IC 36-2-7-10.
   (B)   The fee for the City of Greensburg's Plan Commission review of the
plat of survey shall be $20 and collected by the City of Greensburg Plan
Commission and shall be deposited to the City of Greensburg General Fund.
(Ord. 1997-16, passed 9-2-97)
§ 157.07 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   Any disputes, interpretations or issues arising from this chapter or its
enforcement shall be determined after a public hearing before a Plat Review
Board that is composed of the Decatur County Surveyor, the Executive Director
or Chief Administrative Officer of the Decatur County Area Plan Commission and
the Zoning Administrator or Chief Administrative Officer for planning of the
City of Greensburg, Indiana. Notice of the public hearing shall be required by
statute with formal notice by mail to all adjoining real estate owners. The
decision of the Plat Review Board under this chapter may be appealed to the
Circuit Court of Decatur County.
(Ord. 1997-16, passed 9-2-97)
§ 157.08 DOCUMENTS MUST BE ON PUBLIC RECORD.
   The Decatur County Auditor and the Decatur County Recorder shall not accept
for transfer or recordation any deed or document of conveyance that was
prepared from a plat of survey or based upon information that is not upon the
public record as required under this chapter.
(Ord. 1997-16, passed 9-2-97)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be a Class A Infraction as currently
declared and enforced as provided under state law.
(Ord. 1997-16, passed 9-2-97)
CHAPTER 158: VACATIONS
Section
   
158.01   Vacation of public ways and public alleys
   
158.02   Objections
   
158.03   Platted easements
   
158.04   Fees
§ 158.01 VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC ALLEYS.
   (A)   Persons who own or are interested in any lots or parts of lots and
want to vacate all or part of a public way or alley in or contiguous to those
lots or parts thereof may file a petition for vacation with the Common Council
if all or any part of the public way or public alley to be vacated is located
within the boundaries of the city.
   (B)   The petition must:
      (1)   State the circumstances of the case;
      (2)   Specifically describe the property proposed to be vacated;
      (3)   Give the names and addresses of all owners of land that abuts the
property proposed to be vacated;
      (4)   Be accompanied by an application fee payable to the city in an
amount specified and established by the Director of Public Projects or the
Building Commissioner.
   (C)   The Common Council will give the petition to the Traffic Control
Committee to review. Then the committee will give their recommendations to the
Common Council. The Common Council shall hold a hearing on the petition within
45 days after it is received. The Traffic Control Committee shall give notice
of the petition and of the time and place of the hearing by certified mail:
      (1)   To each owner of land that is within the block area;
      (2)   To the owners of land that abuts the proposed property to be
vacated.
   (D)   After the hearing on the petition, the Common Council may, by
ordinance, vacate the public way or public alley. The clerk of the Common
Council shall furnish a copy of each vacation ordinance to the county recorder
for recording and to the county auditor. Vacation shall not be final until a
legal survey which shows the boundaries, easements and restrictions of record
in proper form for recording in the Recorder’s Office.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of a vacation ordinance, any
aggrieved person may appeal the ordinance to the circuit court of the county.
The court shall try the matter again and may not award damages.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-7-98; Am. Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-11-24; Am. Ord. 2024-
24, passed 11-12-24)
§ 158.02 OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   A remonstrance or objection permitted by §
158.01 may be filed or raised by any person aggrieved by the proposed vacation,
but only on one or more of the following grounds:
      (1)   The vacation would hinder the growth or orderly development of the
unit or neighborhood in which it is located or to which it is contiguous.
      (2)   The vacation would make access to the lands of the aggrieved by
means of public ways difficult or inconvenient.
      (3)   The vacation would hinder the public’s access to a church, school
or other public building place.
      (4)   The vacation would hinder the use of public ways by the
neighborhood in which it is located or to which it is contiguous.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-7-98)
§ 158.03 Platted easements.
   (A)   Platted easements may be vacated in the same manner as public ways and
public alleys, in accordance with §
158.01.
   (B)   Notwithstanding this section, vacation proceedings do not deprive a
public utility of the use of all or part of public ways and public alleys to be
vacated if, at the time the proceedings are instituted, the utility occupies
and uses all or part of the public way or public alley for the location and
operation of its facilities. The public way or public alley shall then become
an easement.
(Ord. 1997-27, passed 12-7-98)
§ 158.04 FEES.
   The amount of all fees associated with this chapter shall be established by
the Director of Public Projects and a fee schedule shall be stated on all
permit application forms, as well as being posted in the Planning Department or
on the Planning Department webpage. Any applicant seeking relief from or
challenging the amount of the permit application fee shall be authorized to
file a request for appeal of fee to the Common Council at the hearing required
under §
158.01(D). Any fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited to
the city General Fund.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-7-98; Am. Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-11-24)
CHAPTER 159: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
   
159.01   Introduction/purpose
   
159.02   Definitions
   
159.03   Applicability
   
159.04   Submittals, review and approval
   
159.05   Design requirements
   
159.06   Inspection
   
159.07   Fees
   
159.08   BMP(s) ownership transfer
   
159.09   Enforcement
§ 159.01 INTRODUCTION/PURPOSE.
   (A)   During the construction process, soil is highly vulnerable to erosion
by wind and water. Eroded soil endangers water resources by reducing water
quality and causing the siltation of aquatic habitats for fish and other
species. Eroded soil also necessitates repair of sewers and ditches and the
dredging of lakes. In addition, clearing and grading during construction cause
the loss of native vegetation necessary for terrestrial and aquatic habitats.
Following the completion of construction activities, dust, dirt, erosion, and
runoff from developed areas (parking lots, driveways, rooftops, roadways, etc.)
will continue to affect the storm water facilities and receiving streams unless
post construction practices are implemented during construction and are
maintained in perpetuity.
   (B)   As a result, the purpose of this chapter is to safeguard persons,
protect property, and prevent damage to the environment within the city. This
chapter will also promote public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling
the design, construction, use, and maintenance of any development or other
activity that disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in the movement of
earth within the city.
   (C)   This chapter establishes minimum storm water management requirements
and controls for the protection of general health, safety, and welfare of the
public residing within the city. This chapter seeks to meet that purpose
through the following objectives:
      (1)   Minimize increases in storm water runoff from any development in
order to reduce flooding, siltation, increases in stream temperature, and
stream bank erosion and maintain the integrity of stream channels;
      (2)   Minimize increases in nonpoint source pollution caused by storm
water runoff from development which would otherwise degrade local water
quality;
      (3)   Minimize the total annual volume of surface water runoff which
flows from any specific site during and following development as not to exceed
the predevelopment hydrologic regime to the maximum extent practicable; and
      (4)   Reduce storm water runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, and
nonpoint source pollution, wherever possible, through storm water management
controls and to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained
and pose no threat to public safety.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 12-6-04; Am. Ord. 2007-5, passed 4-2-07)
§ 159.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ACCELERATED EROSION." Erosion caused by development activities that exceeds
the natural processes by which the surface of the land is worn away by the
action of water, wind, or chemical action.
   "AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY." Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops; also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the construction of
agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and maintenance of
agricultural drain tiles. This does not include the construction of
agricultural-related facilities such as barns, buildings to house livestock,
agricultural waste lagoons, and other infrastructure.
   "APPLICANT." Property owner or agent of a property owner who has filed an
application for a site development permit.
   "BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS)." Structural measures (wetlands, ponds,
sand filters, etc.), nonstructural measures (restrictive zoning, reduced
impervious areas, etc.), or a combination of practices that are designed to act
as effective, practicable means of minimizing the impacts of development and
human activities on water quality and quantity.
   "BMP OWNER." Typically, the property owner. A homeowners association may
also be the owner of the BMP. The BMP owner may also be the leasee of property
in the case of long term leases of commercial or industrial zoned properties.
The leasee is considered the BMP owner only if the lease specifically states
that construction by the leasee must meet applicable local codes and
regulations.
   "CHANNEL." A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks
that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
   "CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS STORM WATER DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
MANUAL." The guidebook providing recommendations and requirements for
engineering design and construction standards for proper storm water management
for those engineers, builders, contractors, land planners, and property owners
contemplating some form of land alteration within the City of Indianapolis,
Marion County, Indiana. A copy of the manual can be found on the internet at
the following web address: http://www.indygov.org/eGov/City/DPW/Business/Specs/
stormwater.htm
   "CONTRIBUTING DRAINAGE AREA." The total drainage area to a given point,
including offsite drainage.
   "DETENTION." The temporary storage of storm runoff in a storm water
management practice with the goals of controlling peak discharge rates and
providing gravity settling of pollutants.
   "DETENTION FACILITY." A detention basin or alternative structure designed
for the purpose of temporary storage of stream flow or surface runoff and
gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
   "DEVELOPER." A person who undertakes land disturbance activities.
   "DRAINAGE EASEMENT." A legal right granted by a landowner to a grantee
allowing the use of private land for storm water management purposes.
   "EFFECTIVE DRAINAGE AREA." The drainage area from a specific site, excluding
offsite drainage, where offsite drainage either does not exist or where offsite
drainage bypasses the site through culverts or other means.
   "EROSION." The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments
by water, wind, ice, or gravity.
   "EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN." A plan that is designed to minimize the
accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during construction
activities.
   "GRADING." The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope or
elevation.
   "IMPERVIOUS AREA." An area where the land surface has been altered in such a
way that it decreases the amount of rainwater infiltration. Impervious surfaces
include, but are not limited to, paved roads, paved driveways, rooftops, and
parking lots.
   INDUSTRIAL STORM WATER PERMIT." A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) permit issued to a commercial industry or group of industries
which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial storm water
discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
   "INFILTRATION." The process of percolating storm water into the subsoil.
   "INFILTRATION FACILITY." Any structure or device designed to infiltrate
retained water to the subsurface. These facilities may be above grade or below
grade.
   "JURISDICTIONAL WETLAND." An area that is inundated or saturated by surface
water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a
prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
   "LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY." Any activity which changes the volume or peak
flow discharge rate of rainfall runoff from the land surface. This may include
the grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of soil, placement of
fill materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any
activity which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of any
natural or man-made watercourse.
   "MEASURABLE STORM EVENT." A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half inch of
rainfall.
   "MS4 COORDINATOR." The Superintendent of the City of Greensburg Public Owned
Treatment Works.
   "NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION." Pollution from any source other than from any
discernible, confined, and discreet conveyances, and shall include, but not be
limited to, pollutants from agricultural, mining, construction, subsurface
disposal and urban runoff sources.
   "OFFLINE STRUCTURE." A BMP that treats only the water quality volume (WQv).
Flows exceeding the WQv bypass the structure and reenter the watercourse below
the BMP.
   "OFF-SITE FACILITY." A storm water management measure located outside the
subject property boundary described in the permit application for land
development activity.
   "ON-SITE FACILITY." A storm water management measure located within the
subject property boundary described in the permit application for land
development activity.
   "POST CONSTRUCTION RUNOFF CONTROL PLAN." A plan designed to permanently
control the quantity of storm water runoff, minimize erosion and sediment
runoff, and reduce the migration of various pollutants from developed areas
(e.g. parking lots, driveways, rooftops, etc.) upon completion of construction/
reconstruction activities.
   "RECHARGE." The replenishment of underground water reserves.
   "REDEVELOPMENT." Any construction, alteration, or improvement where
structures are removed and/or replaced. Where the disturbance caused by
redevelopment activities disturbs less than one acre, no Post Construction
Runoff Control Plan shall be required.
   "RULE 5." Indiana law (327 IAC 15-5-5) requiring erosion control practices
on construction projects disturbing greater than one acre of land. This rule
was developed by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) to
meet federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requirements. The purpose of
the Rule 5 permit is to establish requirements to protect state waters from
adverse affects from storm water discharge from construction activities.
   "RULE 13." Indiana law (327 IAC 15-13) regulating MS4 (Municipal Separate
Storm Sewer System) entities (cities, towns, universities, colleges, hospitals,
military bases, etc.) located within mapped urbanized areas, as delineated by
the U.S. Census Bureau, or, for those MS4 areas outside of urbanized areas,
serving an urban population greater than 7,000 people. The rule applies to the
portions of an urban federal, state, municipal, county, public or private
entity storm water conveyance system that are not combined with sewage
conveyances.
   "STOP-WORK ORDER." An order issued which requires that all construction
activity on a site be stopped.
   "STORM WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT." A system of vegetative, structural, and
other measures that reduce or eliminate pollutants that might otherwise be
carried by surface runoff.
   "STORM WATER RUNOFF." Flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from
precipitation.
   "STORM WATER TREATMENT PRACTICES (STPs)." Measures, either structural or
nonstructural, that are determined to be the most effective, practical means of
preventing or reducing point source or nonpoint source pollution inputs to
storm water runoff and water bodies.
   "SUBDIVISION." Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided into lots,
whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for the purpose of sale
or lease as part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
   "TSS." Total Suspended Solids.
   "TREATMENT TRAIN." More than one BMP in series treating storm water runoff.
Such configurations are necessary when BMPs individually cannot meet the 80%
TSS reduction goal.
   "WATER QUALITY VOLUME (WQv)." The storage needed to capture and treat the
runoff from the first one inch of rainfall. In numerical terms, it is
equivalent to an inch of rainfall multiplied by the volumetric runoff
coefficient and the site area. Refer to the city Storm Water Design and
Construction Specifications Manual for the equation and variable descriptions.
   "WATERSHED." The total drainage area contributing runoff to a single point.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 12-6-04; Am. Ord. 2007-5, passed 4-2-07)
§ 159.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   In general, this chapter requires the control of polluted runoff from
construction and improvement sites with a land disturbance greater than or
equal to one acre, or disturbances of less than one acre of land that are part
of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will
ultimately disturb one acre or more of land.
   (B)   This chapter does not relieve the owner and/or the developer from
complying with the city’s Stormwater Ordinance (
Chapter 52) which relates to stormwater quantity.
   (C)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to persons who are
involved in agricultural land disturbing activities or forest harvesting
activities.
   (D)   The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable permits contain provisions requiring
immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 IAC 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under IC 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the department under 329 IAC 10 that contains equivalent
storm water requirements, including the expansion of the landfill boundaries
and construction of new cells either within or outside the original solid waste
permit boundary.
   (E)   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, post construction
runoff control plans shall be developed in accordance with the city Storm Water
Quality Management Plan, the State of Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual, and
the city Storm Water Design and Construction Specifications Manual in order to
ensure that established water quality standards will be maintained during and
after development of the site and that post construction runoff levels are
consistent with any local and regional watershed plans. The city Storm Water
Design and Construction Specifications Manual is incorporated into this
chapter.
   (F)   In general, the post construction runoff control plan includes
permanent erosion, sediment, and runoff control measures that focus on
reduction of total suspended solids (TSS) and other pollutants typical of
parking lots, rooftops, driveways, and other developed areas.
   (G)   The erosion and sediment control plan addresses temporary control
measures for the reduction of sediment migration during construction
activities. Most of the measures often included in an erosion and sediment
control plan are not intended for permanent installation, such as silt fences
and straw bales. Vegetation installed prior to or during construction to
alleviate sediment migration and erosion may be retained at the site after
construction, pending approval by the city. In addition, some acceptable BMPs
(refer to §
159.05) may be constructed for use during construction activities and retained
at the site for permanent use once construction has been completed.
(Ord. 2007-5, passed 4-2-07)
§ 159.04 SUBMITTALS, REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit a complete post construction runoff control
plan and a complete erosion and sediment control plan to the city's MS4
Coordinator. A Notice of Intent Letter (as described in Rule 5, 327 IAC 15-5-5)
must be submitted with the post construction runoff control plan and erosion
and sediment control plan. If the city would like to incorporate review
comments, these comments shall be forwarded to the applicant within 45 days of
the date of the plan submittal.
   (B)   At the time of submittal, the date and time will be recorded.
   (C)   Each application shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner
or developer of the project site and of any consulting firm retained by the
applicant together with the name of the applicant's principal contact at such
firm. In addition, the applicant shall pay all fees in §
159.07 at the time of submittal.
   (D)   Each application shall include a statement that any land clearing,
construction, or development involving the movement of earth shall be in
accordance with the post construction runoff control plan and that a trained
individual shall be on the project site on all days when construction or
grading activity takes place.
   (E)   The MS4 Coordinator will review each application for a site
development permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
chapter. Within 45 days after receiving an application, the MS4 Coordinator
shall, in writing:
      (1)   Approve the erosion and sediment control plan and post construction
runoff control plan;
      (2)   Approve the erosion and sediment control plan and post construction
runoff control plan subject to such reasonable conditions as may be necessary
to secure substantially the objectives of this regulation; or
      (3)   Disapprove the erosion and sediment control plan and post
construction runoff control plan, indicating the reason(s) and procedure for
submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   (F)   Failure of the MS4 Coordinator to act on an original or revised
application within 45 days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to proceed
in accordance with the plans as filed unless such time is extended by agreement
between the applicant and the MS4 Coordinator. Pending preparation and approval
of a revised plan, development activities shall be allowed to proceed in
accordance with conditions established by the city's Subdivision Control
Ordinance.
   (G)   The sufficiency of the construction plans shall be based upon Rule 5
regulations, the city's Storm Water Quality Management Plan, and the State of
Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual.
   (H)   After receiving approval, if revisions to the construction plans
require a change in measures appropriate to control the quality or quantity of
storm water runoff, then revised plans must be submitted to the MS4
Coordinator.
   (I)   The applicant will be required to file with the city a performance
bond, letter of credit, or other improvement security in the amount deemed
sufficient by the city to cover all costs of improvements, landscaping, and
maintenance of improvements for such period as specified by the city, and
engineering and inspection costs to cover the cost of failure to repair of
improvements installed on the project site.
   (J)   The performance bond will require periodic renewal since it must cover
the perpetual maintenance and care of the permanent post construction runoff
control structure or system in place. The applicant will notify the MS4
Coordinator of the impending performance bond expiration and the issuance of a
renewed performance bond.
   (K)   The project site owner must submit a Notice of Termination (NOT)
letter to the MS4 Coordinator when all land disturbing activities have been
completed, the entire project site has been stabilized, and all temporary
erosion and sediment control measures have been removed.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 12-6-04; Am. Ord. 2007-5, passed 4-2-07)
§ 159.05 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Unless judged by the city to be exempt, the following performance criteria
shall be addressed for storm water management at all sites equal to or greater
than one acre:
   (A)   All site designs shall establish storm water management practices to
control the peak flow rates of storm water discharge associated with specified
design storms and reduce the generation of storm water. These practices should
seek to utilize pervious areas for storm water treatment and to infiltrate
storm water runoff from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and
landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical to provide treatment for both
water quality and quantity.
   (B)   Annual groundwater recharge rates shall be maintained, by promoting
infiltration through the use of structural and non-structural methods.
   (C)   Post construction Best Management Practices (BMPs) are installed after
construction has been completed and the site has been stabilized. Installing
certain BMPs, such as bioretention areas and sand filters, prior to
stabilization can cause failure of the measure due to clogging from sediment.
With a strict construction sequence, however, detention ponds and other BMPs
can be installed initially during construction and used as permanent runoff
control measures upon completion of construction activities. In those
instances, the construction sequence must require that the pond is cleaned out
with pertinent elevations and storage and treatment capacities reestablished as
noted in the approved post construction runoff control plan.
   (D)   The city has adopted a policy that the control of storm water runoff
quality will be based on the management of total suspended solids. For new
development, BMPs shall be designed to remove 80% of the average annual post
developmental total suspended solids (TSS). It is presumed that a BMP complies
with this performance standard if it is:
      (1)   Sized to capture the prescribed water quality volume (WQv);
      (2)   Designed according to the specified performance criteria outlined
in the city Storm Water Design and Construction Specifications Manual;
      (3)   Constructed properly; and,
      (4)   Maintained regularly.
   (E)   In addition to TSS removal, BMPs must also be designed to treat the
water quality volume (WQv), or the first flush of runoff. All new development
projects requiring post construction runoff control plans shall be required to
treat the WQv. Redevelopment projects will be required to obtain storm water
quality approval if the redevelopment activity disturbs more than one acre.
Please refer to the city Storm Water Design and Construction Specifications
Manual for further details regarding calculation of the WQv.
   (F)   The BMPs in Table 5.1 are acceptable for use in the city if designed,
constructed, and maintained according to the criteria set forth in the city
Storm Water Design and Construction Specifications Manual. It is presumed that
these acceptable BMPs achieve a target TSS removal rate of 80% when correctly
constructed and maintained.
   (G)   Should the developer/project site owner choose to implement a storm
water control device, method, or system NOT listed as one of the acceptable
BMPs for the city, the developer/project site owner must provide proof that the
storm water control device, method, or system can achieve the target TSS
removal rate of 80% when correctly constructed.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 12-6-04; Am. Ord. 2007-5, passed 4-2-07)
Table 5.1—Acceptable BMPs for the City of Greensburg
BMP Type Description Quantity Control WQv and 80% TSS % TSS Removal Rate
                                      Removal
Table 5.1—Acceptable BMPs for the City of Greensburg
BMP Type        Description      Quantity Control WQv and 80% TSS % TSS Removal
                                                  Removal         Rate
Storm Water
Ponds           Storm water
Wet pond        retention ponds
Wet extended    are constructed
detention pond  storm water
Micropool       retention basins
extended        with a permanent
detention pond  pool (or         Yes              Yes             85%
                micropool) of
                water. Runoff
                from each rain
Multiple pond   event is
systems         captured and
                treated in the
                pool.

Storm Water
Wetlands        Storm water
Shallow wetland wetlands are
Extended        constructed,
detention       artificial
wetland         wetland systems
Pond/wetland    used for storm
systems         water
                management. They Yes              Yes             95%
                consist of a
                combination of
                shallow marsh
Pocket wetland  areas, open
                water, and semi-
                wet areas above
                the permanent
                pool

                Bioretention
                areas are
                shallow storm
                water basins or
Bioretention    landscaped areas
Areas           that utilize     No               Yes             80%
                engineered soils
                and vegetation
                to capture and
                treat storm
                water runoff
Sand Filters    Sand filters are
Surface sand    multi-chamber
filter          structures
                designed to
                treat storm
                water runoff     No               Yes             85%
Perimeter sand  through
filter          filtration,
                using a sand bed
                as the primary
                filter media.

Water Quality
Swales          Water quality
                swales are
                vegetated open
                channels that
                are designed and
                constructed to   No               Yes             80%
Dry swale       capture and
                treat storm
                water runoff
                within dry
                cells.

Biofilters      While biofilters
Filter strip    provide some
                filtering of
                storm water
                runoff, by
                themselves they
                cannot meet the
                80% TSS removal  No               No              60/30%
Grass channel   goal. These
                measures can
                only be used as
                pre-treatment
                measures or as
                part of a
                treatment train.

Catch Basin
Inserts         Catch basin
                inserts are
                small filtering
                devices
                installed in     No               Yes             80%
Various designs each catch basin
                to trap
                suspended solids
                and other
                pollutants.
 
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 12-6-04; Am. Ord. 2007-5, passed 4-2-07)
§ 159.06 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Each BMP on a site must have an operations and maintenance plan that
is submitted with the post construction runoff control plan and approved by the
city. The approved operations and maintenance plan must be provided to the BMP
owner.
   (B)   Annual inspections of permanent BMPs will be performed by the city.
Prior to post construction runoff control plan approval, the developer or owner
of a site must pay a predetermined fee to cover the city's costs for annual
inspection for the first three years. After the first three years, the city
will annually inspect the facility and bill the owner. Refer to the schedule of
fees in §
159.07.
   (C)   Routine inspections are the responsibility of the BMP owner.
Maintenance is also the responsibility of the owner. Maintenance plans and
inspection forms for each type of acceptable BMP are provided in the city Storm
Water Design and Construction Specifications Manual and should be used as
guidance for performing maintenance activities. Completed routine inspection
forms must be maintained by the BMP owner and produced upon request by the
city.
   (D)   In the event that the city finds a BMP in need of maintenance or
repair, the city will notify the BMP owner of the necessary maintenance or
repairs and give the BMP owner a timeframe for completing the maintenance or
repairs. If the maintenance or repairs are not completed within the designated
timeframe, the city shall perform the repairs or maintenance and bill the BMP
owner for the actual costs of the work.
   (E)   The city must be notified of any changes in BMP ownership, major
repairs, or BMP failure in writing within 30 days.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 12-6-04; Am. Ord. 2007-5, passed 4-2-07)
§ 159.07 FEES.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay a $25 filing fee at the time of submitting the
post construction runoff control plans.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay a fee of $75 per BMP at the time of submitting
the post construction runoff control plans to cover the inspection cost for the
first three years. After the first three years, the city will annually inspect
the facility and bill the owner $25 per BMP to cover annual inspection costs.
 
BMP Inspection Fee (per BMP)
Inspections for first 3 years, paid lump sum in Year 1    $75 per BMP
Annual BMP inspection after Year 3                        $25 per BMP
Additional inspections required due to maintenance issues $25 per hour
 
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 12-6-04; Am. Ord. 2007-5, passed 4-2-07)
§ 159.08 BMP(S) OWNERSHIP TRANSFER.
   If the ownership of a BMP(s) in a commercial or residential subdivision is
to be transferred from the project developer to a subdivision owners
association the following requirements shall be met:
   (A)   Ownership and the responsibility of the care of the BMP shall be
recorded on the original of the plat of the commercial or residential property.
   (B)   The project developer is to establish the subdivision owners
association, and the values if governance.
   (C)   The project developer is to explain in writing the maintenance and
operation of the BMP(s) and the estimated cost to maintain the BMP(s) to the
subdivision owners association.
   (D)   The transfer of the BMP(s) to the subdivision owners association shall
not occur until 80% of the subdivision has been developed and occupied, and the
city has been notified in writing and has approved the transfer the ownership
of the BMP(s).
(Ord. 2007-5, passed 4-2-07)
§ 159.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Stop-Work Order; Revocation of Permit. In the event that any person
holding a site development permit pursuant to this chapter violates the terms
of the permit or implements site development in such a manner as to materially
aversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of persons residing or working
in the neighborhood or development site so as to be materially detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the
neighborhood, the city may issue a Stop-Work Order and may suspend or revoke
the site development permit.
   (B)   Violation and penalties. No person shall construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, or maintain any grading, excavation, or fill, or cause the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of any terms of this chapter. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for such
ordinance violation and each day during which any violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter is committed, continued, or permitted, shall
constitute a separate offense. Upon conviction of any such violation, such
person, partnership, or corporation shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $2,500 for each offense. In addition to any other penalty authorized by
this section, any person, partnership, or corporation convicted of violating
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be required to bear the expense of
such restoration.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 12-6-04; Am. Ord. 2007-5, passed 4-2-07)
CHAPTER 160: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
160.01   Unified Development Ordinance incorporated by reference
§ 160.01 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The Unified Development Ordinance (“UDO”) is incorporated by reference as if
set forth in full herein. The full UDO is available on the city’s website at:
https://www.cityofgreensburg.com/city-services/engineering-planning-and-zoning/
codes-and-ordinances/. Hard copies of the UDO can also be reviewed in the
office of the Building Commissioner weekdays during regular office hours.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-9-23; Am. Ord. 2024-07, passed 5-14-24; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 9-10-24)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   PURCHASE OF REAL ESTATE
      
III.   VACATION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date      Description
1976-14  10-4-76   Part of the east half of the southwest quarter of Section
                   35, Township 11 north, Range 9 east.
                   Beginning at a point 200 feet north of the southwest corner
1976-18  12-6-76   of the east half of the southwest quarter of Section 35,
                   Township 11 north, Range 9 east and on the quarter line.
1977-2   3-8-77    A part of Section 12, Township 10 north, Range 9 east in
                   Decatur County.
                   All that part of the east half of the southwest quarter of
1977-6   4-4-77    the southwest quarter of Section 2, Township 10 north, Range
                   9 east, which lies north of the north line of Washington
                   Street.
                   A part of the southeast quarter of Section 3, Township 10
1977-9   5-2-77    north, Range 9 east, beginning at a point in the center of
                   West Washington Street.
                   A part of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
1977-17  9-6-77    Section 2, Township 10 north, Range 9 east, beginning at the
                   southeast corner of the southwest quarter of the northwest
                   quarter of Section 2.
                   Part of the northwest quarter of Section 36, Township 11
1978-6   5-1-78    north, Range 9 east, beginning first at the southwest corner
                   of the northwest quarter of Section 36.
                   A part of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
1978-11  8-14-78   Section l, Township 10 north, Range 9 east, beginning at the
                   southeast corner of the northeast quarter of the southeast
                   quarter of Section l.
                   Beginning 700.03 feet north of the southwest corner of the
1979-1   3-5-79    southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 35,
                   Township 11 north, Range 9 east.
                   A part of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
1979-4   6-4-79    Section 2, Township 10 north, Range 9 east, in Washington
                   Township.
                   A part of the northeast quarter of Section 12, Township 10
1981-1   2-2-81    north, Range 9 east of the second principal meridian in
                   Decatur County.
1982-1   8-23-82   A part of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 11
                   north, Range 9 east in Decatur County.
1983-2   5-2-83    A part of the southeast quarter of Section 3, Township 10
                   north, Range 9 east in Decatur County.
1986-20  12-1-86   A part of the east half of Section 35, Township 11 north,
                   Range 9 east in Decatur County.
1987-2   2-2-87    A part of the east half of the southeast quarter of Section
                   35, Township 11 north, Range 9 east, Decatur County.
                   A part of the west half of the northeast quarter and a part
1987-5   4-6-87    of the east half of the northwest quarter of Section 1,
                   Township 10 north, Range 9 east.
                   A part of the southwest quarter and a part of the southeast
1987-9   7-6-87    quarter of Section 36, Township 11 north, Range 9 east of
                   the second principal meridian in Decatur County.
1989-19  9-5-89    A part of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 11
                   North, Range 9 East, in Washington Township.
1991-1   2-4-91    A part of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 11
                   north, Range 9 east, Washington Township, Decatur County.
                   A part of the east half of the northwest quarter of Section
1996-20  12-2-96   13, Township 10 north, Range 9 east, Washington Township,
                   Decatur County.
                   A part of the east half of the northeast quarter of Section
1997-10  8-4-97    3 and part of the west half of the northwest quarter of
                   Section 2, all in Township 10 north, Range 9 east,
                   Washington Township.
                   A part of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
1997-13  8-4-97    Section 2, Township 10 north, Range 9 east, of the Second
                   Principal Meridian, Washington Township.
                   A part of the northwest corner of the southwest quarter of
1999-23  1-4-00    Section 11, Township 10 north, Range 9 East of the Second
                   Principal Meridian, Decatur County.
2006-25  11-6-06   Annexing the following properties: 090-10-09-12.00-1800 and
                   090-10-09-12.00-800, approximately 51.34 acres of land.
                   Annexing the following properties: 090-10-09-10.00-600; 090-
2006-28  1-2-07    10-09-10.00-5502; 090-10-09- 10.00-6100; and 090-10-09-
                   10.00- 5500, approximately 148.89 acres.
2006-29  12-4-06   Annexing the following property: 090-10-09-13.00-400,
                   approximately 82.78 acres.
                   Annexing the following property: St. Mary's Parcel No. 16-
2011-11  6-6-11    11-13- 110-001.010-15; Sandcreek Cemetery 16-11-13-000-003-
                   000- 015 and property shall be zoned R-1 One Family
                   Residential District.
2012-2   3-5-12    Annexing the following property: Upland Reservoir, Parcel
                   No. 16-06-20-430-006.020-001, approximately 69.0947 acres.
                   Annexing the following property consisting of three tracts:
2019-2   1- -19    Tract 1 - approximately 2.17 acres in Washington Township;
                   Tract 2 - approximately .7171 and 2.17 acres in Washington
                   Township; Tract 3 - approximately .036 additional acres.
                   Annexing the following property: Parcel Nos. 16-11-01-000-
2021-3   5-3-21  021.000-015 and 16-11-01-000-022.000-015, approximately 4.04
                   acres.
                   Annexing the following property: Parcel No. 16-06-28-140-
2023-05  6-13-23   003.010-015, approximately 416 acres, and property shall be
                   zoned as I-1 Light Industrial.
                   Annexing the following property: Parcel No. 16-11-02-210-
2023-25  11-9-23   069.000-015, and property shall be zoned I-1 Light
                   Industrial.
                   Annexing the following property: Parcel No. 16-11-02-210-
2023-26  11-9-23   060.000-015, and property shall be zoned as I-1 Light
                   Industrial.
                  
 
TABLE II: PURCHASE OF REAL ESTATE
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
                The east half of lot 21 and all of lot 22 in block 3 in the
1977-16  8-9-77 original plat purchased from Norman C. Schlemmer and June
                Schlemmer.
               
 
TABLE III: VACATION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date Description
No.
1976- 3-1- The alley (12.5 by 160 feet) located between lots 7 and 8 in Henry Dole's
2     76   Addition.
1976- 5-3- The north-south alley (16.5 feet by 160 feet) located between lots 4 and 5 of
6     76   block 12 in Highland Addition.
1976- 4-5- The north-south alley (16.5 feet by 160 feet) located between lots 2 and 3 in
7     76   block 12 in P.W. Wilson Addition.
1976- 4-5- The north-south alley (16.5 feet by 160 feet) located between lots 6 and 7 in
7     76   block 12 in P.W. Wilson Addition.
1976- 9-7- The north-south alley intersecting to West Fourth Street between North Anderson
11    76   and the railroad right-of-way, lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 9 in block 15 of the City
           Park Addition.
1976- 9-7- The alley part of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 2, Township
15    76   10 north, Range 9 east (160 feet by 16-1/2 feet) directly between lots 5, 6, 7,
           and 8, block 14 and lot 9, block 14.
1978- 9-1- The alley from Carver to Anderson between lots 4 and 13 and lots 5 and 12,
13    78   block 13 in the City Park Addition.
1978- 9-   The alley from Home Street to Montfort Street between lots 27, 28, 29, 30, 31,
13    11-  and 32 and lots 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, and 38 in the Commercial Club Addition.
      78
1978- 9-   The alley from Lincoln Street to Lathrop Street between lots 31, 32, 33, and 34
13    11-  and lots 27, 28, 29, and 30, block 13, in the Wilder Addition.
      78
1978- 9-   Home Street from 4th to 5th Street, between lots 26 and 39 and lots 27 and 38
14    11-  in the Commercial Club Addition.
      78
1978- 9-1- Home Street from 3rd Street to 4th Street between lots 58 and 71 and lots 59
14    78   and 70 in the Commercial Club Addition.
1978- 9-1- The street between lots 33 and 34 in the Wingham Addition.
14    78
1979- 6-4- Second Street beginning at the southwest corner of lot 5 in block 22 in City
3     79   Park Place.
1980- 7-7- A strip of land of even width seven feet wide off the North side of Sheridan
8     80   Street, abuts the south end of lots 1, 2, and 3 in block 16 in Highland
           Addition.
1980- 11-  Beginning at the northwest corner of lot 23 in Mary Braden's Addition.
13    3-80
1983- 11-  Cedar Lane in West Lawn Addition which runs north and south between lots 7, 8,
1     7-83 23 and 24 of that subdivision.
         The alley in West Lawn Addition which runs east and west between lots 4, 5, 6,
           7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, and 27.
1984- 5-   An alley in the plat of City Park Place Addition running east and west between
5     29-  lots 4 and 5 in block 21.
      84
1984- 10-  The alley in Thomas Hendrick's original plat which runs north and south between
11    1-84 lots 26 and 31.
1984- 11-  The alley in West Lawn Addition which runs north and south along the entire
12    5-84 west side of lots 15 and 16.
         The alley in West Lawn Addition which runs east and west between lots 11, 12,
           13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, and 19.
1984- 2-2- A platted alley in the plat of Highland Addition which runs north and south
16    85   between lots 12 and 13 in block 3.
           A platted alley in the plat of Highland Addition which runs east and west
         between lots 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16 in block 3 and lots 13, 14, 15,
           and 16 in block 2 and two unplatted parcels of land on the south.
           A platted alley beginning at the southeast corner of the northwest quarter of
         the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 2, Township 10 north,
           Range 9 east.
1984- 1-7- A platted alley in the plat of City Park Place Addition which runs east and
21    85   west between lots 12 and 13 in block 21.
1984- 3-4- A platted alley in the Highland Addition which runs east and west between lots
22    85   5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 in block 5.
1985- 8-5- A platted alley in the John T. Wilder Addition, which runs east and west
11    85   between lots 15 and 16 on the north and lot 37 on the south.
1986- 7-7- A platted alley in Block 15 in the Highland Addition, which runs eat and west
6     86   between lots 9, 10, and 11 on the north and lots 5, 6, 7, and 8 on the south.
1986- 8-4- A platted street in the John T. Wilder Addition, which runs north and south
9     86   between lots 12 and 39 on the west and the west half of Block 10 on the east.
1986- 11-  A 20½ foot wide strip of ground running north and south in Block 12 of John T.
19    3-86 Wilder Addition.
1987- 5-4- A platted alley in block 1 of the Highland Addition which runs east and west
7     87   between lots 14, 15, and 16 on the north and a strip of ground 172 feet by 32
           feet on the south.
1987- 8-3- A platted street which runs east and west between lots 18 and 20 in H.
11    87   Willeford First Subdivision on the north, and lots 1 and 2 in H. Willeford
           Second Subdivision on the south.
1987- 9-2- A platted alley in block 11 in the City Park Place Addition which runs east and
13    87   west between lot 2 on the north and lot 3 on the south.
1988- 9-6- A platted alley which runs north and south between lot 12 on the west and lot
15    88   13 on the east, in Block 2.
1988- 9-6- A platted street known as Carol Street which runs north and south between lots
16    88   2 and 3 on the east and lots, 4, 8, and 9 on the west, and lot 17 on the north.
1989- 4-3- A platted alley which runs north and south between lot 74 on the east and lot
3     89   75 on the west.
1989- 12-  A platted alley which runs north and south between lot 16 on the west and lot
28    4-89 91 in Block 13 on the east.
1990- 5-7- A platted alley in Block 4 in the City Park Place Addition, which runs north
3     90   and south between lots 1, 2, 3, and 4 on the east and lots 13, 14, 15 and 16 on
           the west.
1990- 8-6- A platted alley which runs north and south between lots 129, 128, and 127 on
14    90   the east and lots 131 and 130 on the west in block 19.
1991- 9-3- A platted alley which runs north and south between lots 42 on the east and 43
12    91   on the west, located in Commercial Club Addition.
1992- 5-4- A platted alley which runs east and west between lots 3 on the south and 4 on
04    92   the north, located in George Littell Addition.
1992- 2-1- A platted alley 160 feet long and 15 feet wide, running north from McKee Street
21    93   and bordered on the east by lot 10 in Daily's Addition and on the west by part
           of outlot 2.
1994- 4-4- A platted alley 16.5 feet wide on the east side of lot 48, being on the west
3     94   side of lots 46 and 47 in Monfort's First Addition.
1994- 6-6- A platted alley 16.5 feet wide running north and south between lots 6 and 7 of
10    94   Wilson's Addition.
1994- 9-6- A platted alley 40 feet wide running between lots 42 and 41 of Edgewood Acres.
14    94
1994- 9-6- A platted alley 16.5 feet wide running north and south between lots 2 and 3 of
28    94   Wilson's Addition.
         A platted alley 10 feet wide running north and south behind lots 9, 10 and 11
           of Edward's Addition.
1995- 7-3- The entire length of a 40 foot wide street running north and south between lots
11    95   6 and 7 in Commercial Club.
1995- 9-5- A platted alley which runs north and south between lots 4, 14, 15 and 16 on the
20    95   east side and lots 5, 9, 10, and 11 on the west side.
1996- 1-6- Entire length of a 16.5 foot wide alley, running north and south in Block 11,
21    97   between lots 12 and 13, of Highland Addition.
1997- 3-3- A platted alley running east and west through lots numbered 9, 10, 11, and 12
3     97   located in Block 2, Highland Addition, said alley being 16.5 feet in width and
           running east and west.
1999- 7-6- An alley across Lot #28 in Joseph G. Monfort’s Addition to the town.
7     99
1999- 7-6- A platted street running north and south between lots number one in Commercial
8     99   Club Addition and lot number 75 in Floyd’s Addition.
1999- 8-2- A platted street running east and west between lots number one in block 22 and
11    99   lot number eight in block number 15 in City Park Place Addition.
2000- 3-6- An alley located at the southwest corner of Moscow Road and State Road 421.
3     00
2001- 9-4- An alley located in block 13 of the Original Plat of the town (now city), which
22    01   runs north and south between lot number 92 on the east side and lot number 93
           on the west.
2001- 11-  An alley running north and south between lot number four on the east side and
26    6-01 lot number five on the west in block seven of the Highland Addition.
2001- 11-  An alley running north and south between lot number 87 on the east side and lot
27    6-01 number 86 on the west in the Commercial Club Addition.
2001- 12-  A street located in out lot number two in Doles, Floyd and Others Addition to
29    17-  the city.
      01
2002- 4-1- An alley running north and south between lot number 28 on the east side and lot
6     02   number 29 on the west in block 4 of the Original Plat.
2002- 4-1- An alley running north and south between lot number 63 on the west side and lot
7     02   number 64 on the east in block 8 of the Original Plat.
2002- 4-1- An alley running east and west between lot number 45 on the south side and lot
8     02   number 46 on the north in block 6 of the Original Plat.
2002- 4-1- An alley located between lots numbered 96, 97, 119, and 120 in Joseph G.
9     02   Monfort’s Addition running east and west.
2002- 12-  An alley located on the south side of lot 118 in Sniders Addition and on the
30    2-02 north side of 1/2 of lot 19 in Garrison and Doles Addition.
2004- 9-7- An alley running north and south on the east side of lot 1 and east half of lot
10    04   two in Armington Addition, now City of Greensburg, and on the west side of lot
           nine and block two of Abraham Hendricks Addition.
2005- 7-5- A 50 feet wide by 128.97 foot right-of-way running north and south between lots
5     05   59 and 46 in Lee Addition III.
2005- 12-  An alley, 16-1/2 feet wide and 160 feet in length, running east and west,
22    5-05 located on the north side of lot number 5 and the south side of lot number 4 in
           block number 4 in City Park Place Addition.
           An alley, 16-1/2 feet wide (east and west) and 150 feet in length (north and
2006- 5-1- south), running north and south and located on the east side of lot number 40,
5     06   in Barachel Park Addition and on the west side of lot number 15 in North Acres
           Addition.
2006- 6-5- The entire length of a 50 foot wide and 134 foot long right-of- way running
11    06   north and south between lots 102 and 103 in Hillcrest 2 Addition.
2006- 7-6- An alley running east and west located on the north side of lot number 17 being
18    06   70 feet in length and the south side of lot number 18, being 80 feet in length
           in Orlando Doles Addition.
2007- 8-6- The entire length of right-of- way running north and south between lots 5, 6
06-12 07   and 7 in Wilders Addition. Also, an alley running east and west between lots 6
           and 7 in Wilders Addition.
2009- 4-6- Vacating part of Lincoln Street adjoining Lot 10 and the south ten feet of Lot
4     09   11 in North Acres Subdivision.
2010- 8-2- Vacating a certain alley beginning at the northeast corner of Lot 52 in
12    10   Monfort’s Second Addition.
2010- 9-7- Vacating a certain alley commencing at the intersection of the south right-of-
13    10   way line of West Fourth Street and the east right-of-way line of North Anderson
           Street.
2014- 3-2- Parcel Nos. 16-06-34-220-003.000-015 and 16-06-34-210-002.020-016, also known
2     14   as the Schroeder tracts.
2014- 4-7- Parcel Nos. 16-06-33-110-001.020-016 and 16-06-33-110-002.000-016, also known
3     14   as the INDOT tracts.
2016- 5-2- Vacating a portion of Gaston Drive beginning at the southeast corner of Lot 14
6     16   in Charleston Square Subdivision.
2016- 2-6- Vacating part of a right-of-way in the Westridge Business Park as recorded in
16    17   Instrument 205006, beginning at the southwest corner of Lot 17.
           Vacating the following streets and alleys: Anderson Street from the north
           right-of-way of Seventh Street to the southeast right-of-way of State Road 3;
2019- 3-4- an east-west alley located on the southern side of Lot 19, Orlando Dole’s
4     19   Addition; an east-west alley located between Lots 4 and 6 on the north, and 5
           and 6 on the south of City Park Place Greensburg IMP. Assn. Addition; and a
           north- south alley located between Lots 5, 6, 7 and 8, Block 6 of the Westland
           Outlet Three on the east, City Park Place Greensburg IMP. Assn. Addition.
           Vacating the following streets and alleys: Ireland Street located on the west
           side of Lots 16, 17 and 48 of the Commercial Club Addition; Fifth Street
           located between Lots 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 on the north and 17, 18, 19, 20 and
2019- 3-4- 21 on the south, of the Commercial Club Addition; an east-west alley located
5     19   north of Lots 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the Commercial Club Addition; and an
           east-west alley located between Lots 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 on the north and
           Lots 43, 44, 45, 46, 47 and 48 on the south, all of the Commercial Club
           Addition.
2020- 8-3- Vacating three alleys in the clock bounded by East Street on the west, McKee
8     20   Street on the south, Michigan Avenue on the east, and Railroad Street (platted
           as South Street in the original plat of the town).
2020- 8-3- Vacating a portion of Sixth Street west of Anderson Street and extending east
9     20   to its eastern terminus at the abandoned railroad right-of-way.
2023- 5-9- Vacating a portion of a certain alley located directly south of and contiguous
06    23   to Lot 5 of Block 1 and bounded on its south side by Lot 6 of Block 1 in the
           Abram Hendricks Addition.
2023- 8-8- Vacating certain easements located at or about 1602 N. Tyrel Avenue East and
13    23   850 E. Barachel Lane.
      10-  Vacating a certain public right-of-way bounded by the northwest right-of-way
2023- 10-  line of Cherry Road on the southeast, the northwest termini of the Moeller’s
16    23   Lane right-of-way on the northwest, Lot 5 of Moeller Addition on the northeast
           and Lot 6 of the Moeller Addition on the southwest.
2023- 12-  Vacating a public right-of-way of an alley that runs north to south between
28    12-  Lots 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 of the Orlando Dole’s Addition and Outlot No. 1 of
      23   the City Park Place Addition.
2024- 2-   Vacating a public right-of-way that is Gibson Street that runs north to south
04    21-  between Lots 24 and 23 North of Mill Street and Lots 33 and 34 South of Mill
      24   Street in Joseph G. Monfort’s Addition.
      8-   Vacating a public right-of-way that is the East West alley that runs between
2024- 13-  Lots 85, 86, and 87 of the original plat of Greensburg and the North South
14    24   alley that runs between Lots 88 and 87 of the original plat of Greensburg. The
           alley intersection is not to be included in the vacation.
          
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date Description
No.
1975- 11-  Lot 5 in block 5 in the Greensburg Improvement Association's Addition
14    5-75 (known as City Park Place), reclassified from A Residential to Roadside
           Business.
1976- 10-  Part of northeast quarter of Section 2, Township 10 north, Range 9 east of
16    4-76 second principal meridian, more particularly described as lot 6 in North
           Acres reclassified from Local Business to General Business.
1977- 10-  Part of the east half of the south- west quarter of Section 2, Township 10
19    3-77 north, Range 9 east, commencing at the southwest corner of the Gertrude and
           Isabella Amrhein property, reclassified from Agriculture-1 to Business-1.
           Part of the east half of Section 1, Township 10 north, Range 9 east,
1978- 12-  beginning where the east line of Section 1 intersects the center line of
18    4-78 Central Avenue, reclassified from Agriculture A-1 to One- and Two-Family
           District R-2.
           Beginning 700.03 feet north of the southwest corner of the southeast
1979- 4-2- quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 11 north, Range 9
2     79   east, reclassified from Agriculture A-1 to One- and Two- Family Residence
           R-2.
1979- 4-2- Beginning 831.4 feet north of the southwest corner of the southeast quarter
2     79   of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 11 north, Range 9 east,
           reclassified from Agriculture A-1 to One- and Two- Family Residence R-2.
1980- 2-4- Part of the east half of the north- west quarter of Section 12, Township 10
l     80   north, Range 9 east, reclassified from Industrial I-2 to One- and Two-
           Family Residence R-2.
1980- 2-4- Beginning 16 rods, four feet south of the northwest corner of the southwest
3     80   quarter of Section 1, Township 10 north, Range 9 east, reclassified from
           Residential R-2 to Multi-Family Residential R-4.
1980- 5-5- West half of lot 6 in block 3 in B.W. Wilson's Addition (810 East Main
6     80   Street), reclassified from Residential R-2 to Multi-Family Residential R-4.
1980- 7-7- A part of Section 12, Township 10 north, Range 9 east, beginning at the
7     80   northwest corner of the east half of the southwest quarter of Section 12,
           reclassified from Agriculture A-1 to One- and Two- Family Residence R-2.
1980- 11-  A part of the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 11 north, Range 9
14    3-80 east, beginning at the northeast corner of Section 35, reclassified from
           Residential R-2 to General Business B-2.
1981- 12-  A part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 12,
15    22-  Township 10 north, Range 9 east of the second principal meridian,
      81   reclassified from Agricultural A-1 to Residential R-4.
           A part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter, a part of the
1981- 12-  southwest quarter of the northeast quarter, and a part of the northwest
15    22-  quarter of the southeast quarter, all in Section 12, Township 10 north,
      81   Range 9 east of the second principal meridian, reclassified from
           Agricultural A-1 to Residential R-4.
           A part of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter and a part of the
1981- 12-  northwest quarter of the south-east quarter and a part of the south-east
16    7-81 quarter of the northwest quarter, all in Section 12, Township 10 north,
           Range 9 east of the second principal meridian, reclassified from
           Agricultural A-1 to Residential R-2.
1982- 7-6- Lot 1, block 18 in the City Park Place Addition reclassified from
8     82   Residential R-2 to General Business B-2.
1982- 10-  Beginning at the northwest corner of the southeast quarter of Section 11,
15    4-82 Township 10 north, Range 9 east, reclassified from Residential R-2 to
           General Business B-2.
1982- 11-  Part of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 11 north, Range 9
17    1-82 east reclassified from Agriculture A-1 to Residential R-2.
1983- 5-2- Part of the east half of the northwest quarter of Section 12, Township 10
3     83   north, Range 9 east changed from Residential R-2 to Residential R-4.
1984- 11-  Block 21 in Greensburg Improvement Association (known as City Park Place)
15    5-84 from One- and Two-Family Residences R-2 to General Business B-2.
1985- 5-6- A part of the southeast quarter of Section 2, Township 10, Range 9 east,
5     85   from One- and Two-Family Residences R-2 to Multi-Family Residences R-4.
1986- 3-3- Beginning at the southwest corner of lot 15 in Block 2 from B-2 to I-1.
1     86
1986- 7-7- All of lots, 8, 9, 10, 20, 21, 22, 23 and the east 23 feet of lot 11 and
4     86   the east 8 feet of lot 19 of West Lawn Addition from B-2 to I-1.
1986- 7-7- Beginning at the ½-mile post of the south side of Section 1 in Township 10
5     86   North, Range 9 East from B-1 to B-2.
1987- 4-6- Part of the east half of the northwest quarter of Section 12, Township 10
4     87   North, Range 9 East from R-4 to B-1.
1988- 2-1- A part of the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township ll, Range 9 east,
l     88   from One- and Two-Family Residences R-2 to General Business B-2.
1988- 6-6- Lot 31 in Henry H. Talbott's Addition, except for an even width 160.25 feet
8     88   off the west from R-2 to B-2.
1988- 8-1- The northeast corner of the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 11
13    88   North, Range 9 East from R-2 to B-2.
1989- 5-1- The northwest corner of the east half of the northwest quarter of Section
6     89   12, Township 10 North, Range 9 East from R-2 to B-2.
1989- 6-5- The northwest quarter of Section 2, Township 10 North, Range 9 East from B-
7     89   1 to R-4.
1989- 7-3- Part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 2,
10    89   Township 10 North, Range 9 East from I-1 to R-4.
1989- 8-7- Lots 5 and 6 in the Platt-Newlon Addition from R-2 to B-2.
15    89
1989- 8-7- Part of the east half of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of
16    89   Section 2, Township 10 North, Range 9 East from R-2 to R-4.
1989- 8-7- Part of Lot 2 in the Samuel B. Edward's Addition from R-2 to B-1.
17    89
1990- 3-5- A part of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 11 North, Range 9
2     90   East from A-1 to R-4.
1991- 3-4- A part of Lot 2 in Greensburg Commerce Park Subdivision Phase III from I-
3     91   1 Light Industrial District to I-2 General Industrial District.
1991- 5-6- Part of the west half of the northwest quarter of Section 2, Township 10
5     91   north, Range 9 east from B-1 Retail Business District to B-2 General
           Business District.
1991- 11-  Certain territory beginning at the intersection of the right-of-way line of
19    4-91 the V.G. & R. Ry. with the north line of First Street in the city, from R-
           4 Multi-Family Residence District to I-1 Light Industrial District.
1992- 12-  A part of the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 11 North, Range 9
15    7-92 East, from R-2 One- and Two-Family Residence Districts to B-2 General
           Business District.
1992- 12-  A part of the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 11 North, Range 9
16    7-92 East, from R-2 One- and Two-Family Residence Districts to B-2 General
           Business District.
1993- 4-5- A part of the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 11 North, Range 9
2     93   East, from R-2 One- and Two-Family Residence Districts to R-4 Multi-Family
           Residence District.
           Certain territory being 120 feet off of the south end of that portion of
1993- 11-  lot 2 in Edward's Addition which lies west of the west line of Anderson
23    1-93 Street as extended north through said lot, from R-2 One- and Two-Family
           Residence Districts to B-2 General Business District.
1994- 1-3- A part of the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 11 North, Range 9
38    95   East, from B-2 General Business District to R-6 Multi-Family Residential
           District.
1995- 7-3- Certain territory beginning at a point 95 feet, 5 inches north of the
13    95   southwest corner of lot 107 in block 15 in the original plat, from R-2 One-
           and Two-Family Resident District to R-1 Retail Business District.
1995- 7-3- Lots 23 and 24 of Manor Heights Subdivision, from R-2 One- and Two-Family
14    95   Residence District to R-4 Multi-Family District.
1995- 8-7- Lot 33 in block 6 in Ireland's Addition, from B-3 Interchange Business
16    95   District to B-2 General Business District.
1995- 9-5- Lot 81 of the original plat of the city, from R-2 One- and Two-Family
22    95   Residence District to B-1 Retail Business District.
           A part of the south half of the northeast quarter and part of the south
1995- 10-  half of the west half of the northeast quarter of Section 36, Township 11
23    2-95 North, Range 9 East, from R-2 One- and Two-Family Residence District to I-
           1 Light Industrial District.
1997- 8-4- Certain territory beginning at a point 7.39 chains north and 4.77 chains
14    97   east of the half mile post on the south side of Section 12, Township 10
           north, Range 9 east from R-2 to R-4.
1998- 3-2- Lot 5, east and west half of Lot 6, and the east and west half of Lot 7 in
6     98   Joseph G. Monfort Addition, from R-2 One- and Two-Family Residence District
           to B-1 Retail Business District.
1998- 6-1- Lots 1 and 2 of Block 22 in City Park Place Addition, from I-1 Light
10    98   Industrial District to R-2 One- and Two-Family Residence District.
1998- 11-  Lots 1 and 2 in Block Number One in William Ireland's Addition from B-
28    2-98 3 Interchange Business District to B-2 General Business District.
           Parts of the southeast quarter of Section 34, Township 11 North, Range 9
2000- 3-6- East, and part of the northeast corner of the northeast quarter of Section
5     00   3, Township 10 North, Range 9 East, from B-2 General Business District to
           B-3 Heavy Business District.
2000- 3-6- Part of Section 3, Township 10 North, Range 9 East, in Washington Township,
6     00   Decatur County, Indiana, from I-1 Light Industrial District to R-2 One and
           Two Family Residential District.
2001- 2-5- Part of Section 3, Township 10 North, Range 9 East, in Washington Township,
3     01   Decatur County, Indiana, from R-2 One and Two Family Residential District
           to I-1 Light Industrial District.
2001- 6-5- Lot Numbers 1, 2, 3 and 4 in Block Number 13 in Highland Addition from R-
13    01   2 One and Two Family Residential District to I-1 Light Industrial District.
2002- 1-7- Lot Numbers 15, 16, and 17 in Commerce Park V West from I-1 Light
1     02   Industrial District to R-4 Multi-Family Dwelling District.
           Lot Numbers 1 and 2 in Millers Subdivision of out lot number 2 in Doles,
           Floyd and Others Addition; Out lot number 1 in, Doles, Floyd and Others
2002- 1-7- Addition; tract of land in half block number 3 in Abram Hendricks Addition;
2     02   land beginning 6 feet south of the northwest corner of the lot 21 in Doles,
           Floyd and Other Addition; and a vacated street that is located in out lot
           number 2 in Doles, Floyd and Others Addition are all rezoned from R-2 One
           and Two Family Dwelling District to R-4 Multi-Family Dwelling District.
2003- 4-7- Lots 26 and 28 in Miller's Addition and Addition to the city from R-2 One
5     03   and Two Family Dwellings to B-1 Retail Business District.
2003- 4-7- Part of the northeast quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 3,
6     03   Township 10 North, Range 9 East, in the city from R-2 One and Two Family
           Dwellings to I-1 Light Industrial District.
2006- 9-5- Part of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 2,
24    06   Township 10 North, Range 9 East, in Washington Township in the city from I-
           1 Light Industrial District to R-4 Multi-Family District.
2006- 1-2- Part of the southwest quarter of Section 34, Township 11 North, Range 9
33    07   East, in Washington Township from R-2 One and Two Family Residence District
           to R-4 Multi-Family District.
2007- 2-5- Part of the southeast quarter of Section 34, Township 11 North, Range 9
1     07   East, in Washington Township from R-2 One and Two Family Residence District
           to R-4 Multi-Family District and B-3 Heavy Business District.
2007- 2-5- Part of the northeast quarter of Section 12, Township 10 North, Range 9
2     07   East, in Washington Township from I-1 Light Industrial District to R-2 One
           and Two Family Residence District.
2007- 4-2- Rescinding Ordinance 1980-1.
3     07
2007- 4-2- A part of lot 161 in Joseph G. Monfort's Second Addition from B-2 General
6     07   Business District to R-2 One and Two Family Residence District.
2007- 12-  Part of the southwest quarter of Section 34, Township 11 North, Range 9
11-26 3-07 East in Washington Township from R-2 One and Two Family Residence District
           to B-2 General Business District.
2007- 1-7- Part of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 36,
12-30 08   Township 11 North, Range 9 East, in Washington Township from I-1 Light
           Industrial District to R-4 Multi-Family District.
2008- 5-5- Lots 6, 7,and 8 in Barachel Park from R-2 One and Two-Family Dwellings to
05-9  08   B-2 General Business District.
2008- 10-  Lot 28 in Lincoln Park Addition from R-2 One and Two-Family Dwellings to B-
27    6-08 2 General Business District.
2009- 6-1- Part of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 1,
7     09   Township 10 North, Range 9 East, from R-2 One- and Two- Family Dwellings to
           I-1 Light Industrial District.
2010- 12-  Parcel No. 16-06-36-130-001.010-016, from I-1 Light Industrial to R-
15    16-  4 Multi-Family District.
      10
2011- 1-3- Parcel No. 16-11-11-210-011.1000-016, from I-1 Light Industrial District to
01    11   B-1 Central Business District.
2012- 12-  Parcel No. 16-11-02-410-001.000-016 and Parcel No. 16-11-02-410-056.000-
17    3-12 016, from R-2 One- and Two-Family Dwellings to B-2 General Business
           District
2013- 7-1- Parcel No. 16-11-01-220-042.000-016, from R-2 One- and Two-Family Dwellings
4     13   to B-2 General Business District.
2013- 12-  Parcel No. 16-06-36-240-001.000-106, from I-1 Light Industrial to B-3 Heavy
16    2-13 Commercial District.
2014- 8-4- Parcel No. 16-11-02-330-021.000-016, from B-1 Central Business District to
6     14   R-4 Multi-Family Residential District.
2014- 9-2- Parcel Nos. 16-06-35-230-007.030-016 and 16-06-35-230-007.040-016, from R-
8     14   2 Single and Two-Family Residential District to B-3 Heavy Commercial
           District.
2015- 2-2- Parcel Nos. 16-11-02-410-003.000-016 and 16-11-410-002.000-016, from R-
1     15   2 One and Two-Family Dwellings to B-2 General Business District.
2015- 5-4- Parcel Nos. 16-11-11-110-023.000-016 and 16-11-11-110-024.000-016, from R-
3     15   2 One and Two-Family Dwellings to R- 4 Multi-Family Residential District.
2016- 4-4- Parcel Nos. 16-11-01-230-016.020-016, 16-11-01-320-011.000-016, and part of
2     16   Parcel No. 16-11-01-320-010.000-016, from R-2 One and Two-Family Dwellings
           to B-2 General Business District.
           Parcel Nos. 16-06-36-320-049.000-016, 16-06-36-320-049.030-016, 16-06-36-
2016- 5-2- 320-049.040-016, 16-06-36-320-049.010-016, 16-06-36-320-049.020-016, and
4     16   16-06-36-320-049.050-016, from I-1 Light Industrial District to B-2 General
           Business District.
2016- 5-2- Parcel No. 16-11-02-140-029.000-016, from R-2 One and Two Family
5     16   Residential District to B-2 General Business District.
           Parcel Nos. 16-11-11-110-024.000-016 and 16-11-11-110-023.000-016, from R-
2016- 10-  4 Multi-Family Residential District to R-3 Multiple Family Residential
24    3-16 District; and Parcel No. 16-11-11-110-025.000-016, from R-2 One or Two
           Family Residential District to R-3 Multiple Family Residential District.
           Parcel Nos. 16-11-11-120-082.000-016, 16-11-11-120-081.000-016, 16-11-11-
2016- 10-  120-057.000-016, 16-11-11-120-058.000-016, 16-11-11-120-059.000-016, 16-11-
25    3-16 11-120-016.000-016, 16-11-11-120.017.000-016, and 16-11-11-120-100.000-016,
           from I-1 Light Industrial District to B-1 Central Business District.
2019- 9-3- Parcel No. 16-11-11-130-034.000-016 from B-2 General Business District to
24    19   R-2 One- and Two-Family Residential District.
           Parcel Nos. 16-11-02-120-020.000-016, 16-11- 02-120-021.000-016, 16-11-02-
           120-022.000-016, 16-11-02-120-023.000- 016, 16-11-02-120-024.000-016, 16-
2019- 10-  11-02-120-025.000-016, 16-11-02-130-020.000-016, 16-11-02-130-021.000-016,
33    7-19 16-11-02-210-010.900.016, 16-11-02-240.001.000-016, 16-11-02-240-002.000-
           016 from I-1 Light Industrial District to R-2 One-and Two-Family
           Residential District.
2021- 1-5- Parcel No. 16-06-26-000-007.000-015 from B-2 General Business District to
1     21   R-1 One Family Residential District.
           Parts of Lots 113, 114, and 115, all of Lot 116, all of the vacated alleys
2021- 4-5- as shown in Ord. 1992-21, part of the vacated alleys as shown in Ord. 2020-
4     21   8, and part of Lot 2 of the Original Plat, and all of Lot 10 of Daily's
           Addition from R-2 One Family Residential District to B-2 General Business
           District.
2022- 2-8- Parcel No. 16-06-35-130-002.000-016 from B-2 General Business District to
2     22   R-1 One Family Residential District.
2022- 6-   Parcel No. 16-11-02-230-008.000-016 from I-1 Industrial District to B-
12    14-  2 General Business District.
      22
2023- 3-   Parcel No. 16-06-26-000-007.000-015 from R-1 One Family Residential
04    14-  District to R-2 One or Two Family Residential District.
      23
2023- 7-   Parcel No. 16-11-12-210-047.000-016 from R-2 Residential District to B-
10    11-  1 General Business District.
      23
2024- 4-9- Parcel No. 16-11-11-110-015.010-016 from B-2 General Business District to
06    24   B-1 Central Business District.
          
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
REFERENCES TO 1976 CODE
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
IC SECTION CODE SECTION
IC SECTION               CODE SECTION
1-1-1-8                  10.06
1-1-3.5                  10.04
1-1-4-1                  10.04,
                         10.05
1-1-4-5                  10.04
3-5-9                    36.046
3-13-8-1                 30.01
4-21.5-3-7               150.36
5-11-1-24                36.134
5-11-1-27(e)             36.134
5-11-1-27(g)             36.134
5-11-9-4                 36.062
5-13-9-5.7               38.50
5-13-9-5.7(a)            38.50
5-13-9-5.7(b)            38.50
5-22 et seq.             38.70
6-7-1-29.1               30.04 (B)
6-7-1-30.1               30.04 (B)
6-7-1-31.1               30.04 (B)
7.1-3-1-14               115.07
7.1-3-31                 115.02
8-1-32.5-3               30.11
8-1.5-4-1 - 8-1.5-4-19   Ch. 51
8-1.5-4-2                33.60
8-1.5-4-2(d)             33.63
8-1.5-4-4                33.64
8-22-2                   33.10,
                         33.15
9-1-2-2 (Repealed)       113.02
9-13-2-1 et seq.         97.02,
                         97.03
                         97.05,
9-13-2-1                 97.11,
                         97.15
9-13-2-69.7              76.01
9-18.1 et seq.           97.04
9-21-1-3                 Ch. 70
9-21-1-3(a)(1)           Ch. 72
9-21-1-3(a)(11)          71.07
9-21-1-3.3               71.11
9-21-1-3.3(a)            76.99
9-21-11                  Ch. 73
9-21-18-4                98.01,
                         98.02
9-22-1 et seq.           97.04
9-25-4-5                 71.11,
                         76.04
12-32-1-2                36.014
12-32-1-3                36.014
13-18-27                 52.091
13-20.5-10               93.20
13-21-3-12(4)            52.111 -
                         52.113
14-8-2-185               71.99,
                         76.99
14-8-22-233.5            71.11
14-28-1                  156.44
14-32                 52.005
                         52.060,
14-34                    52.075,
                         159.03
22-2-13                  36.088
22-9-1-4 et seq.         100.02
22-9.5-1                 100.01
22-9.5-2-2               100.02
22-9.5-2-3               100.02
22-9.5-2-4               100.02
22-9.5-2-8               100.02
22-9.5-2-9               100.02
22-9.5-2-11              100.02
22-9.5-2-13              100.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.         100.10
22-9.5-3                 100.03
22-9.5-4-8               100.09
22-9.5-5                 100.02
22-9.5-5-1               100.03
22-9.5-6                 100.02
22-11-14-1               92.08
22-12                    150.36
22-12-1-3                150.56
22-12-1-4                150.22
22-12-1-5                150.22
22-12-1-7                150.22
22-12-1-14               150.22
22-12-1-16               150.22
22-12-1-17               150.22
22-12-1-18               150.22
22-12-1-22(b)(12)        150.38
22-12-1-24               150.22
22-12-1-26               150.22
22-12-7                  150.24
22-13                    150.36
22-13-2-3(b)             150.37
22-13-2-6                150.23
22-13-2-7                150.36
22-13-2-7(b)             150.37
22-13-2-9                150.23
22-13-2-11               150.24
22-14                    150.36
22-15                    150.36
22-15-3                  150.26
22-15-4                  150.23
25-37-1-11               114.04
32-25-2-9                150.22
34-6-2-86(1)(B)          52.111 -
                         52.113
34-28-5                  71.11
34-28-5-1(b)             52.111 -
                         52.113
34-28-7                  36.155
34-28-7-2(a)(2)          36.155
35-44-2-4 (Repealed)     36.151
35-45-17-1               114.08
36-1-3-8                 10.99
36-1-4-11                156.01
36-1-5-4                 150.37
36-1-6-4                 150.35
36-1-6-9                 150.36
36-1-9(e)                52.113
36-1-9(f)                52.113
36-1-7-1 et seq.         90.23
36-1-8-13                30.08
36-1-20.2                36.045
36-1-21                  36.047
36-1-27-1                150.27
36-1-27-4                150.27
36-2-7-10                157.06
36-2-19                  157.01
36-2-19-4                157.02
36-4-3-1.5               50.013
36-4-4-3                 32.01
36-4-4-4                 Ch. 31
36-4-5-1 et seq.         32.01
36-4-5-2                 30.01,
                         32.01
36-4-5-3                 32.01
36-4-5-4                 32.01
36-4-6-2                 30.01
36-4-6-4                 31.01,
                         31.08
                         31.01,
36-4-6-5                 31.08,
                         31.09
36-4-6-7                 Ch. 31,
                         31.02
36-4-6-8                 31.01
36-4-6-9                 31.01
36-4-6-10                31.02,
                         31.04
36-4-6-10 - 36-4-6-12    Ch. 31
36-4-6-12 - 36-4-6-16    31.01
36-4-6-13                31.06
36-4-6-15                31.06
36-4-6-18                31.01,
                         31.05
36-4-6-21                31.01
36-4-6-24                31.01
36-4-7-2                 30.02
36-4-7-3                 30.02
36-4-8-3                 30.01
36-4-8-5                 30.01
36-4-8-14                30.07
36-4-9-4                 32.01
36-4-9-5                 32.01
36-4-9-8                 34.02,
                         35.02
36-4-9-11                Ch. 33
36-4-9-12                Ch. 33
36-4-10-2                30.01
36-4-10-3                30.01
36-4-11-1 et seq.        Ch. 36
36-7-2-2                 Ch. 155
36-7-2-4                 Ch. 150
36-7-4-102               33.51
36-7-4-201 - 36-7-4-1105 33.51,
                         33.59
36-7-4-207               33.51
36-7-4-401               33.51,
                         33.57
36-7-4-901 - 36-7-4-1003 33.50
36-7-4-1109(b)           150.27
36-7-9                   150.50
36-7-9-1 - 36-7-9-28     150.51
36-7-9-2                 150.55
36-7-9-4                 150.55
36-7-9-14                150.57
36-7-9-28                150.58
36-7-12-1 et seq.        33.25
36-7-12-4                33.25
36-7-12-5                33.26
36-8-2-2                 Ch. 34
36-8-2-3                 Ch. 35,
                         Ch. 92
36-8-2-4                 91.01
36-8-2-5                 90.12
36-8-2-11                Ch. 114
36-8-3-2                 Ch. 35
36-8-3-3                 Ch. 34,
                         Ch. 35
36-8-6-1 et seq.         34.05
36-8-6-2                 34.05
36-8-7-1 et seq.         35.04
36-8-17                  150.31
36-9-2-5 - 36-9-2-7      Ch. 70
36-9-2-7                 Ch. 95
36-9-2-14                Ch. 51
36-9-6. et seq.          154.01,
                         154.10
36-9-6.1-11              154.11
36-9-6.1-12              154.11
36-9-15.5                30.06
36-9-25-11               93.11
36-9-30-21               93.11
36-10-2-2                33.40
36-10-3-1 et seq.        33.35,
                         33.42
36-10-3-1 - 36-10-3-39   33.40(B)
36-10-3-3                33.35
36-10-3-4                33.36,
                         33.40
36-10-3-10               33.37,
                         33.40
36-10-3-11               33.37,
                         33.40
36-10-3-17               33.38
36-10-3-20               33.41
36-10-3-29 - 36-10-3-32  33.40
Trial rule 6A            10.11
                         
 
REFERENCES TO 1976 CODE
1976 CODE 1982 CODE
1976 CODE 1982 CODE
1-1       10.01 (A)
1-2       10.04,
          10.05
1-3       10.01 (B)
1-4       10.09
1-5       10.09
1-8       10.12
1-9       10.06
1-10      10.99
2-1       30.04
2-13      31.02
2-14      31.03 (A)
2-15      31.03 (B)
2-16      31.03 (C)
2-17      31.04
2-18      31.05
2-19      31.06
2-20      31.07
3-1       110.01
4-16      111.01
4-17      111.02
4-18      111.03 (A)
4-19      111.03 (B)
4-20      111.04
4-21      111.05
4-22      111.06
4-23      111.07
4-24      111.08
4-36      111.17
4-45      111.15
4-47      111.16
5-l       90.01
5-2       90.02 (A)
5-3       90.01,
          90.03 (A)
5-4       90.04
5-5       90.06
5-8       90.06
5-11      90.08
5-12      90.09
5-14      90.02 (B)
5-15      90.10
5-16      90.10
5-28      90.03 (B)
5-36      90.11
5-37      90.11
5-38      90.12
5-39      90.13
7-17      150.01
7-19      150.03
7-20      150.04
8-1       33.01
8-13      91.01
8-14      91.02
8-15      91.03,
          91.05
8-16      91.04
10-1      92.04
10-3      92.05
10-15     35.01
10-16     35.02 (A)
10-17     35.02 (B)
10-18     35.03
10-25     35.04
11-16     112.01
11-17     112.01
11-18     112.02
11-19     112.03
11-20     112.04
11-21     112.05
11-22     112.06
11-23     112.07
11-24     112.08
11-25     112.09
12-l      93.01
12-2      93.02
12-3      93.03
12-4      93.04
12-16     93.10
12-17     93.11
12-18     93.12
12-19     93.13
12-20     93.15
12-21     93.20
12-22     93.14,
          93.16 (B),
         93.19
12-23     97.17
12-24     93.16 (A)
12-25     93.18
12-26     93.19
12-27     93.20
12-28     93.21
15-l      70.01
15-2      70.02 (B)
15-3      70.02 (C)
15-15     71.01
15-16     71.02
15-18     71.10
15-19     71.04
15-20     71.05
15-21     71.06
15-22     73.01
15-23     73.02
15-24     73.03
15-25     71.07
15-26     Ch. 75, Sch. I
15-27     71.08
15-28     Ch. 75, Sch. II
15-28 (c) 71.03
15-40     72.01
15-41     72.02
15-42     72.03;
          Ch. 75, Sch. III
15-43     72.06
15-44     72.04
15-45     72.05
15-46     72.07
15-47     72.07
15-48     72.99 (A)
16-1      130.01
16-2      130.02
16-4      130.03
16-11     130.04 (A)
16-12     130.04 (B)
17-1      33.41
17-2      33.42
17-3      33.40
17-15     33.35
17-16     33.36 (A)
17-17     33.36 (B)
17-18     33.36 (C)
17-20     33.38
17-21     33.39
18-13     114.04
18-14     114.04
18-15     114.04
18-16     114.04
18-17     114.04
18-18     114.04
18-20     114.04
18-21     114.04,
          114.05
19-1      33.50
19-13     33.51
19-14     33.52
19-15     33.53 (A)
19-16     33.53 (B)
19-17     33.54 (A)
19-18     33.54 (B)
19-19     33.53 (C)
19-20     33.55
19-21     33.56
19-22     33.57
19-23     33.58
19-24     33.59
19-53     154.01 (A)
19-54     154.02 (A)
19-55     154.02 (B)
19-56     154.03
19-57     154.04
19-58     154.05
19-59     154.06
19-60     154.07
19-61     154.08
19-62     154.09
19-63     154.10
19-64     154.11
19-65     154.12
19-66     154.13
19-67     154.14
19-68     154.01 (B)
19-80     33.25
19-81     33.26
20-1      34.05
20-13     34.01
20-14     34.02 (A)
20-15     34.02 (B)
20-16     34.03
21-l      74.01
21-2      74.02
21-3      74.03
22-l      95.01
22-2      95.02
22-3      95.02
22-4      95.03
22-5      95.05
22-6      95.04
22-18     95.06
22-25     95.15
22-26     95.16
22-27     95.17
22-28     95.18
22-29     95.19
22-30     95.20
22-31     95.21
22-43     151.01
22-44     151.02
22-45     151.03
22-46     151.04
22-47     151.05
22-48     151.06
24-l      96.01
24-2      96.02
24-3      96.03
24-4      96.04
24-5      96.05
24-6      96.06
25-1      51.01
25-20     94.01
25-105    51.10
25-106    51.12
25-107    51.13
25-108    51.15
25-109    51.16
25-110    51.17
25-111    51.18
25-112    51.14
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
ORD. NO.   DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
          6-1-1894    95.05
          3-5 1897    95.02
                       111.01 -
                       111.05,
          5-3-01      111.08,
                       114.04,
                       114.05
          6-3-07      111.01,
                       111.05
          4-4-10      90.03
          5-13-10     90.12
          3-6-11      92.05,
                       95.06
          5-12-11     151.01 -
                       151.05
          1-6-13      111.06,
                       111.07
          8-13-17     30.03 (A)
                       96.01 -
          12-1-24     96.05,
                       110.01
          5-6-26      96.01 -
                       96.06
                       70.01,
                       70.02 (B),
                       71.01,
                       71.02,
          9-1-30      71.04,
                       71.05,
                       71.0,
                       72.01 -
                       72.06,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. III
          5-6-35      114.04
          3-7-38      51.01
                       71.03,
                       72.03,
          6-22-39     72.99 (A),
                       Ch. 75, Schs. II,
                       III
1945-5     11-5-45     95.03
1946-l     l-7-46      34.05,
                       35.04
1956-4     3-5-56      72.07
1956-5     4-2-56      94.01
1952-3     6-10-52     33.51 -
                       33.59
1960-9     7-5-60      33.01
1960-16    11-14-60    92.04
1962-2     3-5-62      Ch. 112
1963-6     8-26-63     95.5 -
                       95.21
1964-3     6-1-64      Ch. 154
1964-9     10-5-64     Ch. 74
1965-l     5-3-65      30.04
1965-4     5-3-65      72.07
1966-9     8-1-66      33.35 -
                       33.39
1967-5     4-3-67      33.40
                       111.15 -
1969-5     6-2-69      111.18,
                       111.19,
                       111.20
1969-16    11-3-69     95.04,
                       151.06
                       70.02(A),
                       71.05 -
1969-23    l-5-70      71.08,
                       Ch. 73,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. I
1970-2     6-1-70      Ch. 93
1970-11    11-2-70     130.01,
                       130.02
1971-5     8-2-71      33.50
1972-2     3-6-72      33.41
1972-3     3-6-72      33.42
1973-l     2-5-73      51.12 -
                       51.18
1973-6     6-5-73      33.52,
                       33.53 (A)
1973-13    8-28-73     33.25,
                       33.26
1975-11    8-4-75      72.99 (C)
1975-14    11-5-75     T.S.O. IV
1976-2     3-1-76      T.S.O. III
1976-3     4-5-76      92.01 -
                       92.02
1976-4     4-5-76      33.52
1976-6     5-3-76      T.S.O. III
1976-7     4-5-76      T.S.O. III
1976-11    9-7-76      T.S.O. III
1976-14    10-4-76     T.S.O. I
1976-15    9-7-76      T.S.O. III
1976-16    10-4-76     T.S.O. IV
1976-18    12-6-76     T.S.O. I
1977-l     3-17-77     94.15 -
                       94.31
1977-2     3-8-77      T.S.O. I
1977-3     2-7-77      51.1
1977-5     3-17-77     51.7
1977-6     4-4-77      T.S.O. I
1977-9     5-2-77      T.S.O. I
1977-12    6-6-77      71.09
1977-16    8-9-77      T.S.O. II
1977-17    9-6-77      T.S.O. I
1977-19    10-3-77     T.S.O. IV
1978-6     5-1-78      T.S.O. I
1978-7     4-17-78     72.19
1978-11    8-14-78     T.S.O. I
1978-13    9-11-78     T.S.O. III
1978-14    9-11-78     T.S.O. III
1978-18    12-4-78     T.S.O. IV
1978-19    3-5-79      111.5 -
                       111.20
1979-l     3-5-79      T.S.O. I
1979-2     4-2-79      T.S.O. IV
1979-3     6-4-79      T.S.O. III
1979-4     6-4-79      T.S.O. I
1979-9     9-4-79      72.19
1980-l     2-4-80      T.S.O. IV
1980-3     2-4-80      T.S.O. IV
1980-6     5-5-80      T.S.O. IV
1980-7     7-7-80      T.S.O. IV
1980-8     7-7-80      T.S.O. III
1980-11    9-2-80      33.10 -
                       33.17
1980-13    11-3-80     T.S.O. III
1980-14    11-3-80     T.S.O. IV
1980-19    12-23-80    51.17
1981-l     2-2-81      T.S.O. I
1981-2     7-7-81      90.20 -
                       90.25
1981-13    11-2-81     34.04
                       51.12,
1981-14    10-5-81     51.13,
                       51.15,
                       51.16
1981-15    12-22-81    T.S.O. IV
1981-16    12-7-81     T.S.O. IV
1982-2     4-5-82      95.22
1982-4     6-7-82      30.05
1982-5     6-7-82      Adopting Ordinance
1982-8     7-6-82      T.S.O. IV
                       97.01,
                       97.04 -
1982-9     7-6-82      97.08,
                       97.11 -
                       97.15
1982-11    8-23-82     T.S.O. I
1982-12    8-23-82     31.08
1982-15    10-4-82     T.S.O. IV
1982-17    11-1-82     T.S.O. IV
1982-18    12-6-82     33.60 -
                       33.64
1982-19    12-6-82     31.09
1982-20    12-6-82     114.03
1983-2     5-2-83      T.S.O. I
1983-3     5-2-83      T.S.O. IV
1983-4     5-1-83      33.40
1983-10    11-7-83     95.07,
                       95.99
1983-11    11-7-83     T.S.O. III
1983-15    12-21-83    130.01
1984-5     5-29-84     T.S.O. III
1984-9     7-2-84      Adopting Ordinance
1984-11    10-1-84     T.S.O. III
1984-12    11-5-84     T.S.O. III
1984-15    11-5-84     T.S.O. IV
1984-16    2-2-85      T.S.O. III
1984-20    1-7-85      51.25 -
                       51.30
1984-21    1-7-85      T.S.O. III
1984-22    3-4-85      T.S.O. III
1985-2     3-4-85      30.06
1985-5     5-6-85      T.S.O. IV
1985-6     5-6-85      51.8,
                       51.9
1985-9     7-1-85      98.02,
                       98.99
1985-11    8-5-85      T.S.O. III
1985-12    9-3-85      Ch. 75, Sch. V
1985-16    ll-4-85     98.01,
                       98.99
1985-17    12-2-85     Ch. 75, Sch. IV
1985-21    l-6-86      Ch. 75, Sch. I
1986-1     3-3-86      T.S.O. IV
1986-3     7-28-86     Ch. 75, Sch. V
1986-4     7-7-86      T.S.O. IV
1986-5     7-7-86      T.S.O. IV
1986-6     7-7-86      T.S.O. III
1986-7     7-28-86     Adopting Ordinance
1986-9     8-4-86      T.S.O. III
1986-10    9-2-86      Ch. 75, Sch. I
1986-19    11-3-86     T.S.O. IV
1986-20    12-1-86     T.S.O. I
1987-2     2-2-87      T.S.O. I
1987-3     3-2-87      72.09,
                       72.99
1987-4     4-6-87      T.S.O. IV
1987-5     4-6-87      T.S.O. I
1987-7     5-4-87      T.S.O. III
                       71.07,
1987-8     7-6-87      Ch. 75, Schs. IV,
                       V
1987-9     7-6-87      T.S.O. I
1987-11    8-3-87      T.S.O. III
1987-13    9-2-87      T.S.O. III
1987-14    10-5-87     99.01 -
                       99.09
1987-18    10-5-87     Adopting Ordinance
1988-l     2-1-88      T.S.O. IV
1988-4     4-4-88      Ch. 75, Sch. I
1988-7     6-6-88      30.06
1988-8     6-6-88      T.S.O. IV
1988-12    8-1-88      70.20 -
                       70.22
1988-13    8-1-88      T.S.O. IV
1988-15    9-4-88      T.S.O. III
1988-16    9-6-88      T.S.O. III
1988-18    10-3-88     Adopting Ordinance
1988-22    12-5-88     34.06
1989-3     4-3-89      T.S.O. III
                       92.20 -
1989-5     - -         92.25,
                       92.99(B)
1989-6     5-1-89      T.S.O. IV
1989-7     6-5-89      T.S.O. IV
                       51.12,
1989-9     6-5-89      51.13,
                       51.15,
                       51.16
1989-10    7-3-89      T.S.O. IV
1989-11    7-3-89      Ch. 75, Sch. I
1989-15    8-7-89      T.S.O. IV
1989-16    8-7-89      T.S.O. IV
1989-17    8-7-89      T.S.O. IV
- -        8-23-89     51.11
1989-19    9-5-89      T.S.O. I
1989-27    11-6-87     Adopting Ordinance
1989-28    12-4-89     T.S.O. III
1990-1     2-5-90      Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                       Sch. V
1990-2     3-5-90      T.S.O. IV
1990-3     5-7-90      T.S.O. III
1990-4     4-2-90      Ch. 75, Sch. IV
1990-5     5-7-90      34.15 -
                       34.19
                       151.15 -
1990-7     6-4-90      151.18,
                       151.99(B)
1990-14    8-6-90      T.S.O. III
1990-15    8-6-90      Adopting Ordinance
                       156.01,
                       156.03,
                       156.10,
                       156.16,
1990-16    9-4-90      156.19,
                       156.22,
                       156.32,
                       156.41,
                       156.42,
                       156.99
1991-1     2-4-91      T.S.O. I
1991-3     3-4-91      T.S.O. IV
1991-5     5-6-91      T.S.O. IV
                       Ch. 75, Sch. V,
1991-10    8-5-91      Sch. VI,
                       Sch. VII,
                       Sch. VIII
1991-12    9-3-91      T.S.O. III
1991-14    9-3-91      Ch. 75, Sch. V
1991-19    11-4-91     T.S.O. IV
1991-26    12-2-91     Ch. 75, Sch. V
                       156.01,
                       156.03,
                       156.10,
                       156.16,
1992-1     1-6-92      156.19,
                       156.22,
                       156.32,
                       156.41,
                       156.42,
                       156.99
1992-3     4-6-92      Ch. 75, Sch. V
1992-4     5-4-92      T.S.O. IV
1992-15    12-7-92     T.S.O. IV
1992-16    12-7-92     T.S.O. IV
                       96.15 -
                       96.20,
1992-17    2-1-93      96.30 -
                       96.41,
                       96.99
1992-20    2-1-93      Ch. 75, Sch. V
1992-21    2-1-93      T.S.O. III
1992-22    2-1-93      Ch. 100
1992-23    12-28-92    37.01,
                       37.02
1993-1     3-1-93      Ch. 75, Sch. VI
1993-2     4-5-93      T.S.O. IV
1993-18    8-2-93      92.06
1993-19    9-7-93      Ch. 75, Sch. V
1993-23    11-1-93     T.S.O. IV
                       99.15 -
1994-1     2-7-94      99.20,
                       99.99
1994-2     3-7-94      Ch. 75, Sch. V
1994-3     4-4-94      T.S.O. III
1994-4     4-4-94      50.030 -
                       50.035
1994-6     5-2-94      Ch. 75, Sch. I
1994-10    6-6-94      T.S.O. III
1994-14    9-6-94      T.S.O. III
1994-28    9-6-94      T.S.O. III
1994-32    11-7-94     Ch. 75, Sch. IV
1994-37    12-5-94     Ch. 75, Sch. V
1994-38    1-3-95      T.S.O. IV
1995-3     5-1-95      50.001 -
                       50.201
                       156.01,
                       156.03,
                       156.10,
                       156.16,
1995-5     4-3-95      156.19,
                       156.22,
                       156.32,
                       156.41,
                       156.42,
                       156.99
1995-10    6-5-95      Ch. 75, Sch. V
1995-11    7-3-95      T.S.O. III
1995-13    7-3-95      T.S.O. IV
1995-14    7-3-95      T.S.O. IV
1995-15    7-3-95      150.05
1995-16    8-7-95      T.S.O. IV
1995-20    9-5-95      T.S.O. III
1995-22    9-5-95      T.S.O. IV
1995-23    10-2-95     T.S.O. IV
1995-24    10-2-95     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                       72.01,
1995-28    1-2-96      Ch. 75, Schs. V,
                       VI,
                        IX
1996-3     4-1-96      34.04
1996-8     6-3-96      Ch. 75, Schs. I,
                       V
1996-13    10-7-96     Ch. 75, Schs. IV,
                       V
1996-18    11-4-96     72.01,
                       Ch.75, Sch. IX
1996-20    12-2-96     T.S.O. I
1996-21    1-6-97      T.S.O. III
1996-22    12-18-96    93.30 -
                       93.35
                       72.05,
                       72.07,
1997-2     3-3-97      72.11,
                       72.12,
                       72.99
1997-3     3-3-97      T.S.O. III
1997-10    8-4-97      T.S.O. I
1997-13    8-4-97      T.S.O. I
1997-14    8-4-97      T.S.O. IV
1997-15    9-2-97      50.004,
                       50.31
                       157.01 -
1997-16    9-2-97      157.08,
                       157.99
1997-18    12-1-97     150.50 -
                       150.58
1997-20    1-5-98      Ch. 75, Schs. I,
                       V
1998-1     1-5-98      Ch. 75, Schs. I,
                       VI
1998-6     3-2-98      T.S.O. IV
1998-10    6-1-98      T.S.O. IV
1998-14    8-3-98      Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                       114.03 -
1998-15    8-3-98      114.05,
                       114.99
                       156.01,
1998-17    8-31-98     156.41,
                       156.42
1998-23    10-5-98     72.01,
                       72.09
1998-27    12-7-98     158.01 -
                       158.04
1998-28    11-2-98     T.S.O. IV
1999-7     7-6-99      T.S.O. III
1999-8     7-6-99      T.S.O. III
                       70.99,
                       71.09,
                       71.11,
                       72.99,
1999-10    9-7-99      73.04,
                       74.02,
                       Ch. 75, Schs. VI,
                       VIII,
                       IX,
                       90.14
1999-11    8-2-99      T.S.O. III
                       Ch. 75, Schs. I,
1999-13    11-1-99     V,
                       VI,
                       VIII
1999-21    1-4-00      Ch. 75, Sch. V
1999-23    1-4-00      T.S.O. I
2000-3     3-6-00      T.S.O. III
2000-5     3-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-6     3-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-7     6-5-00      95.22
2000-13    6-19-00     50.030 -
                       50.038
2000-17    10-2-00     Ch. 75, Sch. IV
2001-3     2-5-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-4     3-6-01      Ch. 75, Sch. V
2001-7     6-5-01      92.07
2001-8     6-5-01      93.16
2001-13    6-5-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-16    9-4-01      34.07
2001-19    10-2-01     94.06
2001-21    10-2-01     90.15
2001-22    9-4-01      T.S.O. III
                       Ch. 75, Schs. I,
2001-25    12-4-01     V,
                       VIII
2001-26    11-6-01     T.S.O. III
2001-27    11-6-01     T.S.O. III
2001-28    11-6-01     51.19
2001-29    12-17-01    T.S.O. III
2002-1     1-7-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-5     3-4-02      Ch. 75, Sch. V
2002-6     4-1-02      T.S.O. III
2002-7     4-1-02      T.S.O. III
2002-8     4-1-02      T.S.O. III
2002-9     4-1-02      T.S.O. III
2002-20    7-1-02      150.57
                       51.11 -
                       51.13,
2002-21    7-1-02      51.5 -
                       51.18,
                       51.20
                       113.01,
2002-26    10-7-02     113.02,
                       113.99
2002-30    12-2-02     T.S.O. III
2003-3     2-3-03      37.01,
                       37.02
2003-1     3-3-03      Ch. 75, Sch. V
2003-5     4-7-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-6     4-7-03      T.S.O. IV
                       150.20 -
                       150.26,
2003-7     6-2-03      150.28 -
                       150.38,
                       150.99
2003-9     6-2-03      95.08
                       100.01 -
2003-17    8-4-03      100.07,
                       100.10,
                       100.11
2003-18    10-5-03     99.01 -
                       99.09
2003-19    11-3-03     Ch. 75, Sch. I
2004-2     3-1-04      93.30 -
                       93.35
2004-10    9-7-04      T.S.O. III
2004-12    12-6-04     50.220 -
                       50.243
2004-13    12-6-04     159.01 -
                       159.09
2004-14    1-4-05      150.02
2005-3     5-2-05      72.99
                       97.01 -
2005-4     6-6-05      97.08,
                       97.11 -
                       97.15
2005-5     7-5-05      T.S.O. III
                       156.01 -
                       156.03,
                       156.10,
                       156.15 -
2005-6     9-6-05      156.22,
                       156.30 -
                       156.32,
                       156.40 -
                       156.45,
                       156.99
                       51.11 -
                       51.13,
2005-12    8-1-05      51.15 -
                       51.17,
                       51.20
                       50.030 -
2005-13    8-1-05      50.035,
                       50.037,
                       50.038
2005-16    11-7-05     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
2005-17    11-7-05     50.010
2005-18    11-7-05     51.02
2005-21    11-7-05     Ch. 75, Sch. I
2005-22    12-5-05     T.S.O. III
2006-5     5-1-06      T.S.O. III
2006-6     6-5-06      Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                       38.01 -
2006-9     8-7-06      38.06,
                       38.99
2006-10    8-7-06      38.07
2006-11    6-5-06      T.S.O. III
2006-13    7-6-06      95.40 -
                       95.45
2006-18    7-6-06      T.S.O. III
2006-19    9-5-06      50.032
2006-20    8-7-06      Ch. 75, Schs. I,
                       V
                       38.20,
2006-21    9-5-06      Appendix A,
                       B
2006-23    11-6-06     51.21
2006-24    9-5-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-25    11-6-06     T.S.O. I
2006-28    1-2-07      T.S.O. I
2006-29    12-4-06     T.S.O. I
2006-31    12-4-06     Ch. 75, Sch. V
2006-33    1-2-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-1     2-5-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-2     2-5-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-3     4-2-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-4     4-2-07      33.10 -
                       33.17
2007-5     4-2-07      159.01 -
                       159.09
2007-6     4-2-07      T.S.O. IV
                       50.030 -
2007-06-10 6-19-07     50.035,
                       50.037,
                       50.038
                       51.11,
                       51.12,
                       51.13,
2007-06-11 6-19-07     51.15,
                       51.16,
                       51.17,
                       51.20
2007-06-12 8-6-07      T.S.O. III
                       51.40 -
2007-07-23 11-15-07    51.53,
                       51.99
2007-09-25 11-5-07     51.19
2007-11-26 12-3-07     T.S.O. IV
2007-12-30 1-7-08      T.S.O. IV
2008-1-1   2-4-08      38.02,
                       38.05
2008-05-8  11-3-08     50.013
2008-05-9  5-5-08      T.S.O. IV
2008-05-10 6-2-08      Ch. 75, Sch. V
2008-05-11 6-2-08      33.61,
                       33.62
2008-05-12 5-12-08     31.06
2008-25    10-6-08     Ch. 75, Sch. V
2008-27    10-6-08     T.S.O. IV
2008-28    12-1-08     30.07
2009-1     4-6-09      Ch. 75, Sch. I
2009-2     4-6-09      30.08
2009-4     4-6-09      T.S.O. III
2009-7     6-1-09      T.S.O. IV
2009-15    11-2-09     Ch. 75, Sch. V
                       50.030 -
2010-1     4-5-10      50.034,
                       50.037 -
                       50.040
                       51.11 -
                       51.13,
2010-2     4-5-10      51.15 -
                       51.17,
                       51.20
2010-3     4-5-10      51.21
2010-4     5-3-10      Ch. 75, Sch. IV
                       95.23 -
2010-5     4-5-10      95.30,
                       95.99
2010-12    18-2-10     T.S.O. III
2010-13    9-7-10      T.S.O. III
2010-15    12-6-10     T.S.O. IV
                       50.003,
                       50.004,
                       50.007,
                       50.010,
                       50.047,
2010-16    2-7-11      50.065,
                       50.076,
                       50.100,
                       50.102,
                       50.105,
                       50.140
2011-01    1-3-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-5     3-7-11      51.22
2011-6     3-7-11      50.040
2011-7     4-4-11      72.10,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. IX
2011-10    4-4-11      94.40 -
                       94.45
2011-11    6-6-11      T.S.O. I
2012-2     3-5-12      T.S.O. I
2012-3     3-5-12      31.02
2012-7     7-2-12      90.08
2012-12    9-4-12      50.004
                       93.01 -
2012-16    11-5-12     93.04,
                       93.10 -
                       93.21
2012-17    12-3-12     T.S.O. IV
2013-3     7-1-13      94.40 -
                       94.45
2013-4     7-1-13      T.S.O. IV
                       156.01 -
                       156.03,
                       156.10,
                       156.15 -
2013-10    8-5-13      156.22,
                       156.30 -
                       156.32,
                       156.40 -
                       156.46,
                       156.99
2013-12    11-4-13     30.09
                       51.11 -
                       51.13,
2013-14    11-4-13     51.15 -
                       51.17,
                       51.20,
                       51.23
                       50.030 -
2013-15    11-4-13     50.034,
                       50.036 -
                       50.039
2013-16    12-2-13     T.S.O. IV
2014-2     3-2-14      T.S.O. I
2014-3     4-7-14      T.S.O. I
2014-6     8-4-14      T.S.O. IV
2014-8     9-2-14      T.S.O. IV
2014-15    9-2-14      100.01 -
                       100.09
                       114.01 -
2014-18    3-2-15      114.08,
                       114.99
2015-1     2-2-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-2     2-2-15      Ch. 75, Sch. V
2015-3     2-2-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-4     8-3-15      Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
2015-13    12-7-15     33.54
2015-15    12-7-15     Ch. 75, Sch. V
2015-16    12-7-15     Ch. 75, Sch. VII
2015-17    12-7-15     Ch. 75, Sch. I
2015-18    1-4-16      51.21
2015-19    1-4-16      50.032
2016-2     4-4-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-4     5-2-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-5     5-2-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-6     5-2-16      T.S.O. III
2016-7     5-2-16      Ch. 75, Sch. VI
2016-8     5-2-16      Ch. 75, Sch. V
2016-009   6-6-16      38.36
2016-10    7-5-16      34.04
2016-11    6-6-16      38.35
2016-16    2-6-17      T.S.O. III
2016-18    11-7-16     34.04
2016-24    10-3-16     T.S.O. IV
2016-25    10-3-16     T.S.O. IV
                       50.030 -
2016-30    12-5-16     50.034,
                       50.036 -
                       50.039
2016-31    1-3-17      Ch. 75, Sch. I
                       90.01,
2017-21    12-4-17     90.03 -
                       90.15
2017-25    12-19-17    30.05
2018-2     1-2-18      Ch. 75, Sch. III
                       36.001 -
                       36.014,
                       36.025 -
                       36.047,
                       36.055 -
                       36.074,
                       36.085 -
2018-16    1-7-19   36.106,
                       36.115 -
                       36.135, 36.145 -
                       36.158,
                       36.170 -
                       36.174,
                       36.185 -
                       36.188,
                       Ch. 36, Appendix
2019-2     1- -19   T.S.O. I
2019-3     2-4-19      34.08
2019-4     3-4-19   T.S.O. III
2019-5     3-4-19      T.S.O. III
2019-7     3-4-19      35.05
2019-8     5-6-19   34.09
                       51.10 -
                       51.13,
                       51.15 -
2019-11    4-19-19     51.18,
                       51.20,
                       51.23 -
                       51.241
                       97.03,
2019-12    6-2-19   97.04,
                       97.09 -
                       97.15
2019-16    7-1-19      38.50
2019-23    8-5-19      150.27
2019-24    9-3-19      T.S.O. IV
2019-25    10-7-19     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
2019-33    10-7-19     T.S.O. IV
2019-37    1-6-20      30.05
2019-38    1-6-20      90.01 -
                       90.15
2019-39    1-6-20      92.08,
                       92.99
2019-40    3-2-20      71.11,
                       71.99
                       92.01,
2020-4     7-6-20      92.02,
                       92.99
2020-06    9-8-20      93.30 -
                       93.35
2020-7     9-8-20      94.40 -
                       94.45
2020-8     8-3-20      T.S.O. III
2020-9     8-3-20      T.S.O. III
2020-10    9-8-20      Ch. 75, Sch. V
2020-11    9-8-20      Ch. 75, Sch. V
2020-13    9-8-20      92.25
2020-20    9-8-20      33.52,
                       33.54
2020-24    10-5-20     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
2020-25    10-5-20     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
2021-1     1-5-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-3     5-3-21      T.S.O. I
2021-4     4-5-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-6     5-3-21   30.10
2021-9     5-3-21      30.11
                       76.01 -
2021-10    6-7-21      76.10,
                       76.99
2021-12    9-7-21      93.11 -
                       93.18
2021-15    9-7-21      50.032
                       51.10 -
                       51.13,
2021-23    12-6-21     51.15 -
                       51.18,
                       51.20,
                       51.23
                       50.030 -
2021-24    12-6-21     50.034,
                       50.037,
                       50.038
2021-26    1-11-22     Ch. 75, Sch. V
2022-2     2-8-22      T.S.O. IV
2022-04    3-8-22      50.032
2022-08    5-10-22     76.09
2022-09    5-10-22     71.11
2022-11    - -22       38.60 -
                       38.62
2022-12    6-14-22     T.S.O. IV
                       51.11 -
                       51.13,
                       51.15 -
2022-15    6-14-22     51.17,
                       51.20,
                       51.23,
                       51.24
2022-26    10-11-22    31.08
2023-3     2-14-23     Ch. 75, Sch. VII
2023-04    3-14-23     T.S.O. IV
2023-05    6-13-23     T.S.O. I
2023-06    5-9-23   T.S.O. III
2023-09    7-11-23     94.43,
                       94.45
2023-10    7-11-23     T.S.O. IV
2023-12    8-8-23      115.01 -
                       115.13
2023-13    8-8-23      T.S.O. III
2023-14    9-12-23     150.22
                       52.001 -
                       52.008,
                       52.020 -
                       52.026,
                       52.040 -
                       52.046,
2023-15    9-12-23     52.060 -
                       52.063,
                       52.075 -
                       52.079,
                       52.090 -
                       52.099 
                       52.110 -
                       52.113
2023-16    10-10-23    T.S.O. III
2023-23    11-9-23     160.01
2023-25    11-9-23     T.S.O. I
2023-26    11-9-23     T.S.O. I
2023-28    12-12-23    T.S.O. III
2023-29    12-12-23    115.01 -
                       115.13
2024-04    2-21-24     T.S.O. III
2024-05    4-9-24      30.06
2024-06    4-9-24      T.S.O. IV
2024-07    5-14-24     160.01
2024-09    5-14-24     38.70,
                       38.71
2024-10    6-11-24     158.01,
                       158.04
2024-11    7-9-24   72.01,
                       72.99
2024-12    9-10-24     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
2024-14    8-13-24     T.S.O. III
2024-15    9-10-24     160.01
2024-17    10-2-24     92.09
2024-24    11-12-24    52.095,
                       158.01
                       51.11 -
                       51.13,
                       51.15 -
2024-25    12-10-24    51.17,
                       51.20,
                       51.23,
                       51.24 -
                       51.243
                       50.030 -
2024-26    12-10-24    50.034,
                       50.036 -
                       50.039
                       156.01 -
                       156.04,
                       156.10,
                       156.15 -
2024-27    12-10-24    156.22,
                       156.30 -
                       156.35,
                       156.40 -
                       156.47,
                       156.99
                      
 
