GREENFIELD, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-44, passed 12-11-2024;
Res. 2024-081324BOW1, passed 8-13-2024; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2025 Acts, Pamphlet #1
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-15
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF GREENFIELD,
INDIANA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication
of such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF GREENFIELD, INDIANA:
   SECTION I
   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Greenfield, Indiana."
   SECTION II
   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section I shall consist of the
following Titles:
      Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
                  10.   General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
                  30.   General Provisions
                  31.   Executive Branch; City Departments and Department
Heads; Statutory Boards and Commissions
                  32.   Legislative Branch
                  33.   Boards and Commissions
                  34.   Police Department
                  35.   Fire Department
                  36.   Policy and Procedure Manual
                  37.   Internal Control Standards and Materiality Threshold
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
                  50.   Electric Services
                  51.   Sewers
                  52.   Water Service
                  53.   Utility Deposit Policies
                  54.   Stormwater Utility
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
                  70.   General Provisions
                  71.   Traffic Rules
                  72.   Parking
                  73.   Bicycles
                  74.   Traffic Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
                  90.   Animal Management
                  91.   Fire Prevention
                  92.   Streets and Sidewalks
                  93.   Garbage and Rubbish
                  94.   Sanitation
                  95.   Nuisances
                  96.   Parks
                  97.   Trees
                  98.   Fair Housing
                  99.   Fire and Security Alarms
                  100.   Park Cemetery
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
                  110.   Cable Television
                  111.   Itinerant Merchants; Solicitors
                  112.   Mobile Food Vendors
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
                  130.   General Provisions
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
                  150.   Building Code
                  151.   Master Plan Code
                  152.   Subdivision Code
                  153.   Thoroughfare Plan
                  154.   Zoning Code
                  155.   Historic Preservation Code
                  156.   Unsafe Building Code
                  157.   House Numbering Plan and Street Naming
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         Table
                  I.   Annexations
                  II.   Real Estate and Property
                  III.   Streets
                  IV.   Special Contracts
                  V.   Zoning Map Changes
                  VI.   Economic Revitalization Areas
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Indiana Code
   References to Prior Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   SECTION III
   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   SECTION IV
   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   SECTION V
   Such Code shall in full force and effect as provided in Section VI, and such
Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance
and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and
of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested,
recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as
required by law have been given.
   SECTION VI
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date provided
by law.
   SECTION VII
   Introduced and filed on the 27th day of April, 2022. A motion to consider on
first reading on the day of introduction was offered and sustained by a vote of
6 in favor and 0 opposed pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-9.8. On the 11th day of May,
2022, a motion to approve the above as amended on second reading was offered
and sustained by a vote of 6 in favor and 0 opposed pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-
9.8. Upon a motion to approve the above as amended on third reading was offered
and sustained by a vote of 6 in favor and 0 opposed pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-
9.8.
   Duly ordained and passed this 11th day of May, 2022 by the Common Council of
the City of Greenfield, Indiana, having been passed a vote of 6 in favor and 0
opposed.
COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GREENFIELD, INDIANA
Voting Affirmative               Voting Opposed:
Kerry Grass /s/                                                  
Kerry Grass                     Kerry Grass
                                                                             
Jeff Lowder                     Jeff Lowder
Gary McDaniel /s/                                               
Gary McDaniel                  Gary McDaniel
John Lester /s/                                                  
John Lester                     John Lester
Mitch Pendlum /s/                                                  
Mitch Pendlum                  Mitch Pendlum
Dan Riley /s/                                                     
Dan Riley                     Dan Riley
George Plisinski /s/                                               
George Plisinski                  George Plisinski
ATTEST:
Lori Elmore /s/
Lori Elmore, Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor this 11th day of May, 2022.
                                    Lori Elmore /s/
                                    Lori Elmore, Clerk-Treasurer
   Approved by me this 11th day of May, 2022.
                                    Chuck Fewell /s/
                                    Chuck Fewell, Mayor
                                    City of Greenfield, Indiana
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-01
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF GREENFIELD, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2023 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Common Council of the City of Greenfield,
Indiana that:
   SECTION I
   That the 2023 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   SECTION III
   Introduced and filed on the 24th day of January, 2024. A motion to consider
on first reading on the day of introduction was offered and sustained by a vote
of  6  in favor and  0  opposed pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-9.8. On the  14th  day
of  February, 2024, a motion to approve the above on second reading was offered
and sustained by a vote of  6  in favor and  0  opposed pursuant to I.C. 36-5-
2-9.8. Upon a motion to approve the above on third reading was offered and
sustained by a vote of  6  in favor and  0  opposed pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-
9.8.
   Duly ordained and passed this  14th day of  February, 2024 by the Common
Council of the City of Greenfield, Indiana, having been passed by a vote of  6
in favor and  0  opposed.
COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GREENFIELD, INDIANA
Voting Affirmative:            Voting Opposed:
                                                                           
John Jester
Amy Kirkpatrick /s/                                              
Amy Kirkpatrick
Jeff Lowder /s/                                           
Jeff Lowder
Thomas Moore /s/                                           
Thomas Moore
Joyce Plisinski /s/                                           
Joyce Plisinski
Dan Riley /s/                                           
Dan Riley
Anthony Scott /s/                                           
Anthony Scott
ATTEST:
Lori Elmore /s/
Lori Elmore, Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor this 14th day of February, 2024.
                        Lori Elmore /s/
                        Lori Elmore, Clerk-Treasurer
   Approved by me this 14th day of February, 2024.
                        Guy Titus /s/
                        Guy Titus, Mayor
                        City of Greenfield, Indiana
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-22
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF GREENFIELD, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2024 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Common Council of the City of Greenfield,
Indiana that:
   SECTION I
   That the 2024 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   SECTION III
   Introduced and filed on the 10th day of July, 2024. A motion to consider on
first reading on the day of introduction was offered and sustained by a vote of
5  in favor and  0  opposed pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-9.8. On the  24th  day of
July, 2024, a motion to approve the above on second reading was offered and
sustained by a vote of     in favor and     opposed pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-
9.8. Upon a motion to approve the above on third reading was offered and
sustained by a vote of     in favor and     opposed pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-
9.8.
   Duly ordained and passed this  24th day of  July, 2024 by the Common Council
of the City of Greenfield, Indiana, having been passed by a vote of     in
favor and     opposed.
COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GREENFIELD, INDIANA
Voting Affirmative:            Voting Opposed:
John Jester /s/                                              
John Jester
Amy Kirkpatrick /s/                                              
Amy Kirkpatrick
Jeff Lowder /s/                                           
Jeff Lowder
Thomas Moore /s/                                           
Thomas Moore
Joyce Plisinski /s/                                           
Joyce Plisinski
Dan Riley /s/                                           
Dan Riley
Anthony Scott /s/                                           
Anthony Scott
ATTEST:
Lori Elmore /s/
Lori Elmore, Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor this 24th day of July, 2024.
                        Lori Elmore /s/
                        Lori Elmore, Clerk-Treasurer
   Approved by me this 24th day of July, 2024.
                        Guy Titus /s/
                        Guy Titus, Mayor
                        City of Greenfield, Indiana
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Greenfield, Indiana
shall be designated as the “Code of Greenfield, Indiana,” and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 1.01)
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to codify, see I.C. 36-1-5-3
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
Indiana Code.
   (B)   (1)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the
Indiana Code, such reference indicates that the section is analogous or similar
to the cited sections in the Indiana Code.
      (2)   Footnotes, cross-references, and other comments are by way of
explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (C)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the municipal corporation although the same may not
be so limited specifically.
(Prior Code, § 1.01)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, not incompatible with future legislation, shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 1.02)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 1.03)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. But technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
(I.C. 1-1-4-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      APPOINTED OFFICIALS. The officials appointed by the Mayor to administer
and supervise the departments of the city.
      BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety.
      CITY, MUNICIPALITY, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Greenfield,
Indiana.
      THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The municipal code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk- Treasurer of the city, who shall perform the
duties set forth in Chapters
30 and
31.
      COUNCIL. The Common Council of the city.
      COUNCIL MEMBER. Any member of the Council of the city.
      DEPARTMENTS. The Departments of the city.
      ELECTED OFFICERS. The Mayor, the Clerk-Treasurer, and the Council Members
of the city.
      EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Mayor.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the city.
      MONTH. A calendar month, unless otherwise expressed.
      MUST or SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      OFFICIAL. The elected officers, appointed officials, and employees of the
city.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, or joint tenant of the whole or
a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
partnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and, as
applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      PUBLIC BODY. The Council, the Board, and all other commissions,
committees, or boards of the city, whether established by state statute, local
ordinance, policy, motion, order, resolution, or otherwise.
      REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all chattels real.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines of the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STREET. Except as provided in the traffic code, the entire width between
property lines of every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof
is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right.
      UTILITIES. The city’s utility departments which are comprised of the
Electric Utility, the Water Utility, the Wastewater Utility, and the Stormwater
Utility.
      WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Any representation of words, letters, or figures
whether by printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all statutes of this state shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislature or of the context of the statute:
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
   (B)   Words importing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise declared
in the statute giving authority.
   (C)   Words importing the singular number only may be also applied to the
plurals of persons and things.
   (D)   Words importing the masculine gender only may be extended to the
females also.
   (E)   When a statute requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or
deputy as well may do as the principal, the requisition is satisfied by the
performance of the act by an authorized agent or deputy.
   (F)   When a person is required to be disinterested or indifferent in acting
on any question or matter affecting other parties, consanguinity or affinity
within the sixth degree, inclusive, by the civil law rules, or within the
degree of second cousin, inclusive, disqualifies the persons from acting,
except by consent of parties.
(I.C. 1-1-4-1) (Prior Code, § 1.04)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8) (Prior Code, § 1.05)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 1.06)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 1.07)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
(Prior Code, § 1.08)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal law, shall
be the official time within the city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(I.C. 34-7-5-1)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code for which another penalty is not
specifically provided shall be fined not more than $2,500 for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum fine permissible for ordinance violations, see I.C. 36-1-3-8
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   EXECUTIVE BRANCH; CITY DEPARTMENTS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS; STATUTORY BOARDS
AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
      
33.   NON-STATUTORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL
      
37.   INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND MATERIALITY THRESHOLD
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Organization of city government
   
30.02   Elected officers; appointed officials
   
30.03   Eligibility for office
   
30.04   Notice; oath; bonds
   
30.05   Filling vacancies in office
   
30.06   Oppression; malconduct; misfeasance
   
30.07   Membership dues
   
30.08   Establishment of bank accounts
   
30.09   Purchasing policy
   
30.10   Credit card policy
   
30.11   Investment policy
   
30.12   Electronic funds transfers
City Funds
   
30.25   City Promotional Fund
   
30.26   Petty Cash Funds
   
30.27   Endowment Fund
   
30.28   Telecommunication Fund
   
30.29   Gift or Donation Fund
   
30.30   Police Vehicle Fund
   
30.31   Rainy Day Fund
   
30.32   Local Road and Streets Fund
   
30.33   Greenfield War Memorial Fund
   
30.34   Justice Department Nonreverting Fund
   
30.35   Health Reimbursement Account Nonreverting Fund
   
30.36   Economic Development Income Tax Fund
   
30.37   Local Income Tax Fund (LIT Fund)
   
30.38   Department of Parks and Recreation Cash Exchange Fund
   
30.39   Local Income Tax Certified Shares and Property Tax Refund Credit Tax
Fund
   
30.40   Miscellaneous Grants Fund
   
30.41   Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
   
30.42   Park Nonreverting Fund
   
30.43   County Jail Extension Project Nonreverting Fund
   
30.44   Court Mandated Fund
   
30.45   K-9 Shirley Gibbs Fund
   
30.46   BVP Nonreverting Fund
   
30.47   Nonreverting State Seizure Fund
   
30.48   Notification of extraordinary expenditures
   
30.49   Next Level Trails Grant Nonreverting Fund
   
30.50   Creating Places Nonreverting Fund
   
30.51   Opioid Settlement Fund-Unrestricted
   
30.52   Opioid Settlement Fund - Unrestricted
   
30.53   Shelter House Reconstruction Nonreverting Fund No. 4650
   
30.54   Homeland Security Overtime Nonreverting Fund
   
30.55   Nonreverting Police Evidence Fund
   
30.56   Greenfield Fire Territory Nonreverting Fund
   
30.57   Justice Department Overtime Nonreverting Fund
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
30.60   Short title
   
30.61   Purpose
   
30.62   Definitions
   
30.63   Findings
   
30.64   Process of establishing a covered account
   
30.65   Access to covered account information
   
30.66   Credit card payments
   
30.67   Sources and types of red flags
   
30.68   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
30.69   Updating the program
   
30.70   Program administration
   
30.71   Outside service providers
   
30.72   Treatment of address discrepancies
   
30.73   Methods of confirming consumer addresses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ORGANIZATION OF CITY GOVERNMENT.
   The city government shall consist of two branches, those being the
following:
   (A)   Executive branch; and
   (B)   Legislative branch.
Statutory reference:
   Executive branch, see I.C. 36-4-5
   Legislative branch, see I.C. 36-4-6
§ 30.02 ELECTED OFFICERS; APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The elected officers of the city, elected in accordance with the
provisions of the state election laws, shall be:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The members of the Common Council.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the authority to appoint the following officials:
      (1)   The City Engineer;
      (2)   The City Attorney;
      (3)   The Street Commissioner;
      (4)   Superintendent of Animal Management;
      (5)   Superintendent of Parks and Recreation;
      (6)   Director of Utilities;
      (7)   Director of Planning and Engineering;
      (8)   Manager of Information Services;
      (9)   Director of Human Resources;
      (10)   Chief of the Fire Department;
      (11)   Chief of the Police Department; and
      (12)   Such members of boards and commissions, officers, and other
employees as provided under the laws in effect and as hereafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 20.01)
Statutory reference:
   Duty of the Mayor to appoint city officials, I.C. 36-4-5-4
§ 30.03 ELIGIBILITY FOR OFFICE.
   (A)   A person is eligible to be the Mayor only if that person meets the
qualifications prescribed by I.C. 3-8-1-26.
(I.C. 36-4-5-2(b))
   (B)   A person is eligible to be a member of the Common Council only if that
person meets the qualifications prescribed by I.C. 3-8-1-27.
(I.C. 36-4-6-2(b))
   (C)   A person is eligible to be the Clerk-Treasurer only if that person
meets the qualifications prescribed by I.C. 3-8-1-28.
(I.C. 36-4-10-3(a))
   (D)   Should any elected officer cease to be a resident of the city, or any
Common Council member representing any district cease to be a resident of such
district during his or her term, such office becomes vacant immediately.
Statutory reference:
   Provisions affecting residency, I.C. 36-4-5-2(d), 36-4-6-2(c), 36-4-10-3(c)
§ 30.04 NOTICE; OATH; BONDS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, every elected
officer, appointed official, and deputy, before commencing with such officer’s,
official’s, or deputy’s official duties, shall take an oath to uphold the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the state, and that
the elected officer, appointed official, or deputy will faithfully discharge
the duties of his or her respective office.
      (2)   This section applies to a deputy of a political subdivision. An
individual appointed as a deputy is considered an employee of the political
subdivision performing ministerial functions on behalf of an officer and is not
required to take the oath prescribed by division (A)(1) above. However, if a
chief deputy assumes the duties of an office during a vacancy under I.C. 3-13-
11-12, the chief deputy must take the oath required under division (A)(1) above
before entering on the official duties of the office.
   (B)   The oath required by division (A) above, except in the case of a
notary public or in those cases specified in I.C. 5-4-1-3, shall be endorsed on
the:
      (1)   Commission;
      (2)   Certificate, if a certificate was issued under I.C. 3-10-7-34, I.C.
3-12-4, or I.C. 3-12-5; and
      (3)   Certificate of appointment pro tempore under I.C. 3-13-11-11,
signed by the person taking the oath, and certified to by the elected officer
before whom it was taken, who shall also deliver to the person taking the oath
a certified copy of the oath.
   (C)   The copy of the oath under I.C. 5-4-1-2 shall be deposited by the
person as follows:
      (1)   Of all officers whose oath is endorsed on or attached to the
commission and whose duties are not limited to a particular county; and
      (2)   Of the Circuit Court Clerk, officers of a political subdivision or
school corporation, and constables of a small claims court, in the Circuit
Court Clerk’s office of the county containing the greatest percentage of the
population of the political subdivision or school corporation.
   (D)   Unless otherwise permitted by I.C. 5-4-1-18, the following city
officers and city employees shall file an individual surety bond in the name of
such officer in such amount as required under I.C. 5-4-1-18, as the same may be
amended, restated, or replaced, from time to time:
      (1)   Controllers, clerks, and clerk-treasurers; and
      (2)   Those employees directed to file an individual bond by the fiscal
body of the city.
§ 30.05 FILLING VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   (A)   A vacancy in a city office that was last held by a person elected as a
candidate of a major political party of the state shall be filled by a caucus
held pursuant to I.C. 3-13-11.
(I.C. 3-13-8-1)
   (B)   A vacancy on Common Council not within the purview of division (A)
above shall be filled by the remaining Common Council members at a regular
meeting or special meeting of the Common Council. The Mayor may break any tie
vote.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall give notice of the meeting to fill any
vacancy in accordance with the requirements hereof. Except as provided in
division (D) below, the meeting to fill such vacancy shall be held not later
than 30 days after the vacancy occurs. The notice must:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State the purpose of the meeting;
      (3)   State the date, time, and place of the meeting; and
      (4)   Be sent by first-class mail to each Common Council member at least
ten days before the meeting.
   (D)   If a vacancy exists because of the death of a Common Council member,
the Common Council shall meet and select an individual to fill the vacancy not
later than 30 days after the Clerk-Treasurer receives notice of the death under
I.C. 5-8-6. The Clerk-Treasurer may not give the notice required by division
(C) above until the Clerk-Treasurer receives notice of the death under I.C. 5-
8-6.
(I.C. 3-13-8-10)
§ 30.06 OPPRESSION; MALCONDUCT; MISFEASANCE.
   If any officer is convicted of a misdemeanor under I.C. 35-44.1-1, the court
may enter an order removing the elected officer from office.
(I.C. 35-50-5-1.1(b))
Statutory reference:
   Bribery, see I.C. 35-44.1-1-2
   Conflict of interest, see I.C. 35-44.1-1-4
   Official misconduct, see I.C. 35-44.1-1-1
§ 30.07 MEMBERSHIP DUES.
   (A)   The Common Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate
funds from the General Fund or from other funds to provide membership for the
city and the elected officers and appointed officials and members of the public
boards, departments, or agencies in local, regional, state, and national
associations of a civic, educational, or governmental nature, which have, as
its purpose, the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
   (B)   The Common Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate
funds to pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the
meetings and functions of organizations to which the municipality belongs.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
§ 30.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF BANK ACCOUNTS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to establish a passbook savings
account or accounts, and is further authorized to execute all documents
necessary to open said account or accounts. The Clerk-Treasurer shall invest
the city’s funds in accordance with the investment policies set forth under §
30.11.
§ 30.09 PURCHASING POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to establish a uniform
purchasing policy for the City of Greenfield, Indiana. This policy reflects the
city's objective to promote and encourage accountability, fiscal
responsibility, and ethical behavior. It further aims to ensure that purchases
made by the city are conducted in accordance with federal, state and local law,
as well as policies enacted by governing boards or the Mayor.
   (B)   Policy scope. This policy applies to purchases made by the City of
Greenfield government ("the city") and that are within the city's control and
made pursuant to the public purchasing provisions of I.C. 5-22-3-3 of the
Indiana Code. These are purchases that are estimated to cost between $10,000
and $150,000 and over. Exceptions to this policy include "routine materials,
repairs to equipment, emergency" or any other item as approved by the Mayor. In
most cases, this policy will not include public infrastructure construction
projects. This policy applies to the purchasing of ongoing consumables, durable
goods and services, except for qualifications based selection services.
   (C)   Policy goals.
      (1)   The purpose of this policy is to purchase needed supplies,
materials, and services, except for qualifications based selection services in
a manner that will:
         (a)   Encourage accountability;
         (b)   Encourage fiscal responsibility;
         (c)   Promote ethical behavior; and
         (d)   Encourage opportunity for local vendors to participate in
purchasing process.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this policy shall be construed as requiring
the city to procure products that do not perform adequately for their intended
use, exclude adequate competition or are not available at a reasonable price in
a reasonable period of time.
   (D)   Obtaining quotes—procedure. In order to meet the city's objective to
promote and encourage accountability, fiscal responsibility, and good ethical
behavior, all purchasing agents for the city shall make purchases in the manner
described in division (H) below.
   (E)   Responsible party. Designated staff shall implement this policy upon
approval by the Greenfield Board of Public Works and Safety. These personnel
include, but are not limited to, city department heads, Administrative
Assistants, or any other city employees or parties acting as a purchasing agent
for materials on the city's behalf.
   (F)   Time period. This policy shall take effect on August 13, 2024 and
shall continue indefinitely or until amended or replaced by a subsequent
sustainable purchasing policy.
   (G)   Other city guidelines and policies.
      (1)   Supplier diversity. It is the city's objective to promote and
encourage competition among all vendors and contractors. The city is committed
to an open and fair business environment and exhibits this commitment by
offering business opportunities to all persons regardless of race, age, sex or
national origin. Further, the city wishes to encourage the diversification of
business opportunities among historically disadvantaged businesses, such as
women-owned and minority-owned businesses, and encourages its departments to
utilize those businesses where practical.
      (2)   Local business preference. For the purpose of stimulating local
economy, the city encourages its departments to utilize local businesses where
practical.
      (3)   General policy provisions.
         (a)   The City Legal Department must review and approve all contracts
for legal adequacy.
         (b)   Contracts must meet all federal, state, and local requirements,
including the City of Greenfield.
         (c)   The Mayor or his designee may review all contracts prior to
approval.
         (d)   The City Attorney must approve any decision to terminate a
contract due to failure to perform by the other party. After notification of
the appropriate Board or Commission, the City Attorney will perform the steps
necessary to legally terminate the contract.
         (e)   This policy shall not apply when items are being purchased
utilizing the State of Indiana's Quantity Purchase Agreement (QPA) procedure.
   (H)   Quotation guidelines. The following is a guideline for all individuals
within city administration when soliciting quotations as to the manner of
solicitation, what must be contained within the solicitation, and what must be
contained within the response to the solicitation by any perspective vendor.
      (1)   Quotations for purchases between $10,000 and $25,000.
         (a)   Solicitations by fax, phone, or email to at least three vendors
known to deal in the class of work to be proposed.
         (b)    Solicitation should include a description of the anticipated
work as detailed as possible.
         (c)   Solicitations should indicate the anticipated start date and
completion date for the work.
         (d)   Solicitations should indicate that quotations should be directed
to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer by 9:30 a.m. on the day of the Board
meeting at which the solicitation shall be considered.
         (e)   Solicitations should indicate that quotations should be sealed
if the amount of the solicitation is in excess of $10,000.
         (f)   The solicitation should include the document to be completed by
the vendor containing the amount of their quote.
         (g)   The solicitation should indicate to the perspective vendor where
the bid packet documents may be obtained and the hours to do so, subject to
established holiday schedule.
         (h)   A sign-in sheet for those picking up the quotation packets,
other than at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, should be maintained by the
applicable department head and delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer by the
department head by 9:00 a.m. on the day before the quotations are due.
         (j)   The solicitation shall inform perspective vendors that the
successful bidder will be required to name the city as an additional insured
under their insurance policy meeting the required limit set forth below.
         (k)   The solicitation should also indicate that the quotation will
require the following additional documents:
            1.   A copy of the bidder’s insurance declaration page reflecting
general liability coverage of at least $1,000,0000 per incident and $2,000,000
in the aggregate, the existence of worker’s compensation insurance, as well as
cyber security insurance if the project includes accessing the city’s computer
system;
            2.   A copy of the bidder’s proposed contract should the bidder be
selected as the vendor;
            3.   A duly executed E-verify affidavit;
            4.   A duly executed Iran Affidavit; and
            5.   A duly executed W-9.
         (l)   Purchases of automobiles and trucks shall be exempt from this
quotation guideline.
      (2)   Quotations for purchases greater than $25,000 but less than
$50,000.
         (a)   Solicitation for quotations must be by mail, although
solicitations may be confirmed by fax or email. Solicitations for quotations
must be mailed to at least three entities known to deal in the class of work
proposed. The mailing must be made not less than seven days before the time
fixed for receiving quotes which would be 9:30 a.m. on the day the Board will
consider the quotations.
         (b)   Solicitation should include a description of the anticipated
work as detailed as possible.
         (c)   Solicitations should indicate the anticipated start date and
completion date for the work.
         (d)   Solicitations should be sealed and should indicate that
quotations should be directed to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer by 9:30 a.m.
on the date the quotations will be considered by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
         (e)   The solicitation should include the document to be completed by
the vendor containing the amount of his, her, or their quote.
         (f)   The solicitation should tell the vendor where the bid packet
documents may be obtained and the hours to do so, subject to established
holiday schedule.
         (g)   A sign-in sheet for those picking up the quotation packets,
other than at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, should be maintained by the
applicable department head and delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer by the
department head by 9:00 a.m. on the day before the quotations are due.
         (h)   The solicitation shall inform vendors that the successful bidder
will be required to name the city as an additional insured under their
insurance policy meeting the required limit set forth below.
         (i)   The solicitation should also indicate that the quotation will
require the following additional documents:
            1.   A copy of the bidder’s insurance declaration page reflecting
general liability coverage of at least $1,000,0000 per incident and $2,000,000
in the aggregate, the existence of worker’s compensation insurance, as well as
cyber security insurance if the project includes accessing the city’s computer
system;
            2.   A copy of the bidder’s proposed contract should the bidder be
selected as the vendor;
            3.   A duly executed E-verify affidavit;
            4.   A duly executed Iran Affidavit;
            5.   A bond or cashier’s check in the amount of 5% of the total
quotation;
            6.   Should the solicitation pertain to the installation and/or
maintenance of any form of room, street, or alleyway, or any infrastructure
within the city, the solicitation shall inform the vendors that should he, she,
or they be the successful bidder, he, she, or they will be required to provide
a performance bond in the amount of 110% of the quotation, as well as a
maintenance bond in the amount of 25% of the quotation which shall continue in
existence for three years after acceptance of the work and release of the
performance bond; and
            7.   A duly executed W-9, if a W-9 is not already on file with the
Clerk-Treasurer.
         (j)   Purchases of automobiles and trucks shall be exempt from this
quotation guideline.
      (3)   Quotations for purchases greater than $50,000 but less than
$150,000.
         (a)   Solicitation for quotations must be by mail, although
solicitations may be confirmed by fax or email. Solicitations for quotations
must be mailed to at least three entities known to deal in the class of work
proposed. The mailing must be made not less than seven days before the time
fixed for receiving quotes which would be 9:30 a.m. on the day the Board will
consider the quotations.
         (b)   Solicitation should include a description of the anticipated
work as detailed as possible.
         (c)   Solicitations should indicate the anticipated start date and
completion date for the work.
         (d)   Solicitations should be sealed and should indicate that
quotations should be directed to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer by 9:30 a.m.
on the date the quotations will be considered by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
         (e)   The solicitation should include the document to be completed by
the vendor containing the amount of his, her, or their quote.
         (f)   The solicitation should tell the vendor where the bid packet
documents may be obtained and the hours to do so, subject to established
holiday schedule.
         (g)   A sign-in sheet for those picking up the quotation packets,
other than at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, should be maintained by the
applicable department head and delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer by the
department head by 9:00 a.m. on the day before the quotations are due.
         (h)   The solicitation shall inform vendors that the successful bidder
will be required to name the city as an additional insured under their
insurance policy meeting the required limit set forth below.
         (i)   The solicitation should also indicate that the quotation will
require the following additional documents:
            1.   A current financial statement of the bidder;
            2.   A list of equipment intended to be used on the project;
            3.   A statement of the contractor’s experience;
            4.   A copy of the bidder’s insurance declaration page reflecting
general liability coverage of at least $1,000,0000 per incident and $2,000,000
in the aggregate, the existence of worker’s compensation insurance, as well as
cyber security insurance if the project includes accessing the city’s computer
system;
            5.   A copy of the bidder’s proposed contract should the bidder be
selected as the vendor;
            6.   A duly executed E-verify affidavit;
            7.   A duly executed Iran Affidavit;
            8.   A duly executed W-9, if a W-9 is not already on file with the
Clerk-Treasurer;
            9.   A bond or cashier’s check in the amount of 5% of the total
quotation; and
            10.   Should the solicitation pertain to the installation and/or
maintenance of any form of room, street, or alleyway, or any infrastructure
within the city, the solicitation shall inform the vendors that should he, she,
or they be the successful bidder, he, she, or they will be required to provide
a performance bond in the amount of 110% of the quotation, as well as a
maintenance bond in the amount of 25% of the quotation which shall continue in
existence for three years after acceptance of the work and release of the
performance bond.
      (4)   Request for sealed bids for projects in excess of $150,000.
         (a)   Requests for sealed bids must be published in accordance with
I.C. 5-3-1 and this policy in a newspaper of general circulation in the city,
at least one week but no more than six weeks apart, with the second notice
being published at least ten days before the date specified for the bid
opening. The advertisement must fix the time for receiving bids to be 9:30 a.m.
on the day the Board will consider the bids.
         (b)    The request for sealed bids must inform the bidder that his,
her, or their bids must contain the following:
            1.   A current financial statement of the bidder;
            2.   A list of equipment intended to be used on the project;
            3.   A statement of the contractor’s experience;
            4.   A copy of the bidder’s insurance declaration page reflecting
general liability coverage of at least $1,000,0000 per incident and $2,000,000
in the aggregate, the existence of worker’s compensation insurance, as well as
cyber security insurance if the project includes accessing the city’s computer
system;
            5.   A copy of the bidder’s proposed contract should the bidder be
selected as the vendor;
            6.   A duly executed E-verify affidavit;
            7.   A duly executed Iran Affidavit;
            8.   A duly executed W-9 if a W-9 is not already on file with the
Clerk-Treasurer; and
            9.   A bond or cashier’s check in the amount of 5% of the total
quotation.
         (c)   All documents required for quotations of less than $150,000 are
required for all bids described in this section; provided, however, to the
extent applicable forms exist, all bids under this section must utilize forms
provided by the State Board of Accounts.
         (d)   All bidders must submit a non-collusion affidavit on forms set
forth by the state.
         (e)   The request for sealed bids should further advise the bidder
that, within the required proposed contract, the successful bidder shall
include the following provisions:
            1.   The successful bidder will not make cash payments to an
individual or entity for work done on the project;
            2.   The successful bidder will comply with the Fair Labor
Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., and the minimum wage law;
            3.   The successful bidder will comply with state’s workers’
compensation insurance requirements;
            4.   The successful bidder will comply with state’s unemployment
compensation requirements;
            5.   If the project in question is a road project funded in part by
the state, the advertisement should indicate the successful bidder will be
required to provide proof of certification by INDOT; and
            6.   The successful bidder must submit a copy of the drug testing
policy or collective bargaining agreement that describes the drug testing
policy.
         (f)   Should the solicitation pertain to the installation and/or
maintenance of any form of infrastructure within the city, the solicitation
shall inform the vendors that should he, she, or they be the successful bidder,
he, she, or they will be required to provide a performance bond in the amount
of 100% of the quotation, as well as a maintenance bond in the amount of 10% of
the quotation which shall continue in existence for three years after
acceptance of the work and release of the performance bond.
   (I)   General terms relating to purchasing.
      (1)   The purchasing agency may receive electronic offers in response to
an invitation to bid, request for proposals, or request for specifications.
      (2)   A purchasing agency may only receive an electronic offer if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (J)   Correction and withdrawal of bids.
      (1)   A bidder may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time at
which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting a
revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened.
      (2)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which bids will be opened.
   (K)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the city’s best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
   (L)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
      (1)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The City Clerk-Treasurer, or
the purchasing agent who receives offers, shall retain all offers received in a
secure location prior to the date and time at which offers will be opened in
order to prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening of the offers.
      (2)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened,
the purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
      (3)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the time of the bid opening, unless the bid opening is delayed, as
authorized in this section or any other statute or ordinance.
      (4)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a
register of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
   (M)   Discussions with bidders responding to a request for proposals. The
purchasing agent may conduct discussions with parties who are submitting
proposals. Final offers may be obtained from responsible bidders who submit
proposals and are determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for
a contract award.
   (N)   Delay of openings of offer. When the Board makes a written
determination that is in the city’s best interest, offers may be opened after
the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time, and place of the
rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the originally
scheduled opening.
   (O)   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies. If the Board
determines that it is either not practicable or not advantageous to purchase
certain types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding, it shall authorize the
appropriate purchasing agent to receive proposals.
   (P)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   Price adjustments. Any purchasing agent for the city may include
provisions to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following
provisions for price adjustments may be included:
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
         (b)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon; or
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contacting parties may mutually agree upon.
      (2)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
      (3)   Unilateral rights of the city. The purchasing agent may include in
a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the
purchasing agent, or the Board, to order changes in the work within the scope
of the contract or to order temporary work stoppage or delays in time of
performance.
      (4)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include, in a
purchase contract, provisions dealing with variations between the estimated
quantities of work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
   (Q)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all county purchases
and shall be purchased unless the county determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds, by an unreasonable amount, the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparable priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (R)   Contracting with a relative policy.
      (1)   The city may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with an
individual who is a relative of an elected officer or a business entity that is
wholly or partially owned by a relative of an elected officer, only if the
requirements of I.C. 36-1-21-5 are satisfied and the elected officer does not
violate I.C. 35-44.1-1-4. The elected officer must also file a written
disclosure as set forth in I.C. 36-1-21-5(b).
      (2)   The city contracting with a relative policy is hereby established
effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirement provisions of I.C.
36-1-21, including all future amendments thereto, which become law from time to
time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
      (3)   All elected officers and appointed officials of the city shall
cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies created by this division
(R) and demonstrating compliance with these policies. For the purposes of this
subchapter, RELATIVE shall mean parents, spouses, or stepparents; children,
including stepchildren; siblings, including stepsiblings; nieces; nephews;
aunts; uncles; daughters-in-law; or sons-in-law.
   (S)   Purchasing procedures and requirements when utilizing federal funds.
Any and all purchasing agents, the Common Council and all other boards of the
city shall comply with the following procedures and requirements when using
federal funds or awards to procure goods and/or services, whether received
directly or as a sub-recipient:
      (1)   No employee, officer, or agent of the city may participate in the
selection, award, or administration of a contract supported by a federal award
if he or she has a real or apparent conflict of interest. Such a conflict of
interest would arise when the employee, officer, or agent, any member of his or
her immediate family, his or her partner, or an organization which employs or
is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, has a financial or
other interest in or a tangible personal benefit from a firm considered for a
contract. The officers, employees, and agents of the non-federal entity may
neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value
from contractors or parties to subcontracts. Violation of this requirement
shall result in disciplinary action against the employee in violation. This
policy shall not apply in situations in which the financial interest is not
substantial, or the gift is an unsolicited item of nominal value. Prior to any
participation in the selection, award of administration of a contract, the
employee shall disclose any financial interest to the Common Council for a
determination if such interest is substantial.
      (2)   All purchasing shall avoid acquisition of unnecessary or
duplicative items. Consideration should be given to consolidating or breaking
out procurements to obtain a more economical purchase. Where appropriate, an
analysis will be made of lease versus purchase alternatives, and any other
appropriate analysis to determine the most economical approach.
      (3)   To foster greater economy and efficiency, and in accordance with
efforts to promote cost-effective use of shared services across the federal
government, the city shall consider state and local intergovernmental
agreements or inter-entity agreements where appropriate for procurement or use
of common or shared goods and services. Competition requirements will be met
with documented procurement actions using strategic sourcing, shared services,
and other similar procurement arrangements.
      (4)   The city shall consider using federal excess and surplus property
in lieu of purchasing new equipment and property whenever such use is feasible
and reduces project costs.
      (5)   The city shall consider using value engineering clauses in
contracts for construction projects of sufficient size to offer reasonable
opportunities for cost reductions. Value engineering is a systematic and
creative analysis of each contract item or task to ensure that its essential
function is provided at the overall lower cost.
      (6)   The city shall award contracts only to responsible contractors
possessing the ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions
of a proposed procurement. Consideration will be given to such matters as
contractor integrity, compliance with public policy, record of past
performance, and financial and technical resources.
      (7)   The city shall maintain records sufficient to detail the history of
procurement. These records will include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following: Rationale for the method of procurement, selection of contract
type, contractor selection or rejection, and the basis for the contract price.
      (8)   (a)   The city may use a time-and-materials type contract only
after a determination that no other contract is suitable and if the contract
includes a ceiling price that the contractor exceeds at its own risk. Time-and-
materials type contract means a contract whose cost to the city is the sum of:
            1.   The actual cost of materials; and
            2.   Direct labor hours charged at fixed hourly rates that reflect
wages, general and administrative expenses, and profit.
         (b)   Since this formula generates an open-ended contract price, a
time-and-materials contract provides no positive profit incentive to the
contractor for cost control or labor efficiency. Therefore, each contract with
the city must set a ceiling price that the contractor exceeds at its own risk.
Further, the city shall assert a high degree of oversight in order to obtain
reasonable assurance that the contractor is using efficient methods and
effective cost controls.
      (9)   The city shall be responsible, in accordance with good
administrative practice and sound business judgment, for the settlement of all
contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements. These issues
include, but are not limited to, source evaluation, protests, disputes, and
claims.
      (10)   All procurement transactions for the acquisition of property or
services required under a federal award shall be conducted in a manner
providing full and open competition consistent with the standards of this
section and 2 CFR § 200.320.
      (11)   In order to ensure objective contractor performance and eliminate
unfair competitive advantage, contractors that develop or draft specifications,
requirements, statements of work, or invitations for bids or requests for
proposals must be excluded from competing for such procurements. Some of the
situations considered to be restrictive of competition include but are not
limited to:
         (a)   Placing unreasonable requirements on firms in order for them to
qualify to do business;
         (b)   Requiring unnecessary experience and excessive bonding;
         (c)   Noncompetitive pricing practices between firms or between
affiliated companies;
         (d)   Noncompetitive contracts to consultants that are on retainer
contracts;
         (e)   Organizational conflicts of interest;
         (f)   Specifying only a “brand name” product instead of allowing “an
equal” product to be offered and describing the performance or other relevant
requirements of the procurement; and
         (g)   Any arbitrary action in the procurement process.
      (12)   The city shall conduct procurements in a manner that prohibits the
use of statutorily or administratively imposed state, local, or tribal
geographical preferences in the evaluation of bids or proposals, except in
those cases where applicable federal statutes expressly mandate or encourage
geographic preference. Nothing in this section preempts state licensing laws.
When contracting for architectural and engineering (A/E) services, geographic
location may be a selection criterion provided its application leaves an
appropriate number of qualified firms, given the nature and size of the
project, to compete for the contract.
      (13)   All solicitations for bids or quotes by the city shall incorporate
a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the
material, product, or service to be procured. Such description must not, in
competitive procurements, contain features which unduly restrict competition.
The description may include a statement of the qualitative nature of the
material, product or service to be procured and, when necessary, must set forth
those minimum essential characteristics and standards to which it must conform
if it is to satisfy its intended use. Detailed product specifications should be
avoided if at all possible. When it is impractical or uneconomical to make a
clear and accurate description of the technical requirements, a “brand name or
equivalent” description may be used as a means to define the performance or
other salient requirements of procurement.
      (14)   The specific features of the named brand which must be met by
offers must be clearly stated; and identify all requirements which the offerors
must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals.
      (15)   The city shall ensure that all prequalified lists of persons,
firms, or products which are used in acquiring goods and services are current
and include enough qualified sources to ensure maximum open and free
competition. The city shall not preclude potential bidders from qualifying
during the solicitation period.
      (16)   Methods of procurement to be followed. The city may use the
following methods of procurement used for the acquisition of property or
services required under a federal award or sub-award.
         (a)   Informal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement
for property or services under a federal award does not exceed the simplified
acquisition threshold (SAT), as defined in 2 CFR § 200.1, formal procurement
methods are not required. The city may use informal procurement methods to
expedite the completion of its transactions and minimize the associated
administrative burden and cost. The informal methods used for procurement of
property or services at or below the SAT include:
            1.    Micro-purchases.
               a.    Distribution. The acquisition of supplies or services, the
aggregate dollar amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold
(See the definition of micro-purchase in 2 CFR § 200.1). To the maximum extent
practicable, the city should distribute micro-purchases equitably among
qualified suppliers.
               b.    Micro-purchases may be awarded without soliciting
competitive price or rate quotations if city considers the price to be
reasonable based on research, experience, purchase history or other information
and documents it files accordingly.
            2.   Small purchases. The acquisition of property or services, the
aggregate dollar amount of which is higher than the micro-purchase threshold
but does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. If small purchase
procedures are used, price or rate quotations must be obtained from an adequate
number of qualified sources as determined appropriate by the Common Council.
The simplified acquisition threshold (“SAT”) shall be $50,000.00, unless a
higher amount may hereafter be required by federal regulation, rule or order.
         (b)   Formal procurement methods. When the value of the procurement
for property or services under a federal financial assistance award exceeds the
SAT, formal procurement methods are required. Formal procurement methods
require following documented procedures. Formal procurement methods also
require public advertising unless a non-competitive procurement can be used in
accordance with 2 CFR § 200.319 or this section. The following formal methods
of procurement are used for procurement of property or services above the SAT:
            1.   Sealed bids. A procurement method in which bids are publicly
solicited and a firm fixed-price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded
to the responsible bidder whose bid, conforming with all the material terms and
conditions of the invitation for bids, is the lowest in price. The sealed bids
method is the preferred method for procuring construction, if the conditions.
            2.   In order for sealed bidding to be feasible, the following
conditions should be present:
               a.   A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or
purchase description is available;
               b.   Two or more responsible bidders are willing and able to
compete effectively for the business; and
               c.   The procurement lends itself to a firm fixed price contract
and the selection of the successful bidder can be made principally on the basis
of price.
            3.   If sealed bids are used, the following requirements apply:
               a.   Bids must be solicited from an adequate number of qualified
sources, providing them sufficient response time prior to the date set for
opening the bids, for local, and tribal governments, the invitation for bids
must be publicly advertised;
               b.   The invitation for bids, which will include any
specifications and pertinent attachments, must define the items or services in
order for the bidder to properly respond;
               c.   All bids will be opened at the time and place prescribed in
the invitation for bids, and for local and tribal governments, the bids must be
opened publicly;
               d.   A firm fixed price contract award will be made in writing
to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Where specified in bidding
documents, factors such as discounts, transportation cost, and life cycle costs
must be considered in determining which bid is lowest. Payment discounts will
only be used to determine the low bid when prior experience indicates that such
discounts are usually taken advantage of; and
               e.   Any or all bids may be rejected if there is a sound
documented reason.
            4.   Proposals. A procurement method in which either a fixed price
or cost-reimbursement type contract is awarded. Proposals are generally used
when conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed bids. They are
awarded in accordance with the following requirements:
               a.    Requests for proposals must be publicized and identify all
evaluation factors and their relative importance;
               b.    Proposals must be solicited from an adequate number of
qualified offerors;
               c.   Any response to publicized requests for proposals must be
considered to the maximum extent practical;
               d.   The city shall conduct technical evaluations of the
proposals received and making selections by a committee of three persons;
               e.    Contracts must be awarded to the responsible offeror whose
proposal is most advantageous to the city, with price and other factors
considered; and
               f.   The city may use competitive proposal procedures for
qualifications-based procurement of architectural/engineering (A/E)
professional services whereby offeror’s qualifications are evaluated and the
most qualified offeror is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and
reasonable compensation. The method, where price is not used as a selection
factor, can only be used in procurement of A/E professional services. It cannot
be used to purchase other types of services though A/E firms that are a
potential source to perform the proposed effort.
         (c)   Noncompetitive procurement. There are specific circumstances in
which noncompetitive procurement can be used. Noncompetitive procurement can
only be awarded if one or more of the following circumstances apply:
            1.   The acquisition of property or services, the aggregate dollar
amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold;
            2.   The item is available only from a single source;
            3.   The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not
permit a delay resulting from publicizing a competitive solicitation;
            4.   The federal awarding agency or pass-through entity expressly
authorizes a noncompetitive procurement in response to a written request from
the city; or
            5.   After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is
determined inadequate.
      (17)   (a)   The city shall take all necessary affirmative steps to
assure that minority businesses, women’s business enterprises, and labor
surplus area firms are used when possible.
         (b)   Affirmative steps shall include:
            1.   Placing qualified small and minority businesses and women’s
business enterprises on solicitation lists;
            2.   Assuring that small and minority businesses, and women’s
business enterprises are solicited whenever they are potential sources;
            3.   Dividing total requirements, when economically feasible, into
smaller tasks or quantities to permit maximum participation by small and
minority businesses, and women’s business enterprises;
            4.   Establishing delivery schedules, where the requirement
permits, which encourage participation by small and minority businesses, and
women’s business enterprises;
            5.   Using the services and assistance, as appropriate, of such
organizations as the Small Business Administration and the Minority Business
Development Agency of the Department of Commerce; and
            6.   Requiring the prime contractor, if subcontracts are to be let,
to take the affirmative steps listed in this section.
      (18)   (a)   As appropriate and to the extent consistent with law, the
city, to the greatest extent practicable under a federal award, shall provide a
preference for the purchase, acquisition, or use of goods, products, or
materials produced in the United States (including but not limited to iron,
aluminum, steel, cement, and other manufactured products). The requirements of
this section must be included in all subawards including all contracts and
purchase orders for work or products under this award.
         (b)   For purposes of this section:
            1.   “Produced in the United States” means, for iron and steel
products, that all manufacturing processes, from the initial melting stage
through the application of coatings, occurred in the United States.
            2.    “Manufactured products” means items and construction
materials composed in whole or in part of non-ferrous metals such as aluminum;
plastics and polymer-based products such as polyvinyl chloride pipe; aggregates
such as concrete; glass, including optical fiber; and lumber.
      (19)   The city shall comply with § 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The requirements of §
6002 include procuring only items designated in guidelines of the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 CFR part 247 that contain the highest percentage
of recovered materials practicable, consistent with maintaining a satisfactory
level of competition, where the purchase price of the item exceeds $10,000 or
the value of the quantity acquired during the preceding fiscal year exceeded
$10,000; procuring solid waste management services in a manner that maximizes
energy and resource recovery; and establishing an affirmative procurement
program for procurement of recovered materials identified in the EPA
guidelines.
      (20)   The city shall perform a cost or price analysis in connection with
every procurement action in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold
including contract modifications. The method and degree of analysis is
dependent on the facts surrounding the particular procurement situation, but as
a starting point, the non-federal entity must make independent estimates before
receiving bids or proposals.
      (21)   The city shall negotiate profit as a separate element of the price
for each contract in which there is no price competition and in all cases where
cost analysis is performed. To establish a fair and reasonable profit,
consideration must be given to the complexity of the work to be performed, the
risk borne by the contractor, the contractor’s investment, the amount of
subcontracting, the quality of its record of past performance, and industry
profit rates in the surrounding geographical area for similar work.
      (22)   Costs or prices based on estimated costs for contracts under the
federal award are allowable only to the extent that costs incurred or cost
estimates included in negotiated prices would be allowable for the city under
federal regulations.
      (23)   The cost plus a percentage of cost and percentage of construction
cost methods of contracting must not be used.
      (24)   For construction or facility improvement contracts or subcontracts
exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold, the federal awarding agency or
pass-through entity may accept the bonding policy and requirements of the city
provided that the federal awarding agency or pass-through entity has made a
determination that the federal interest is adequately protected. If such a
determination has not been made, the minimum requirements must be as follows:
         (a)   A bid guarantee from each bidder equivalent to 5% of the bid
price. The bid guarantee must consist of a firm commitment such as a bid bond,
certified check, or other negotiable instrument accompanying a bid as assurance
that the bidder will, upon acceptance of the bid, execute such contractual
documents as may be required within the time specified.
         (b)   A performance bond on the part of the contractor for 100% of the
contract price. A performance bond is one executed in connection with a
contract to secure fulfillment of all the contractor’s requirements under such
contract.
         (c)   A payment bond on the part of the contractor for 100% of the
contract price. A payment bond is one executed in connection with a contract to
assure payment as required by law of all persons supplying labor and material
in the execution of the work provided for in the contract.
      (25)   The purchasing agent or other employee in responsible charge shall
maintain oversight to ensure that contractors perform in accordance with the
terms, conditions, and specifications of their contracts or purchase orders.
(Ord. 1998-13, passed 7-23-1998; Ord. 2012-6, passed 6-27-2012; Ord. 2022-47,
passed 12-14-2022; Res. 2024-081324BOW1, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 30.10 CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   The city is authorized to hold and maintain a credit card account for the
use of its officials and employees for city business only, upon the following
terms and conditions.
   (A)   All cards shall be maintained and monitored by the Clerk-Treasurer.
The Clerk-Treasurer may, from time to time in his/her direction, allow credit
card charges in excess of those limits set forth herein for a timeframe as
deemed necessary by said Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may authorize a city official or employee to use
the credit card for city business only. The credit cards shall be returned to
the Clerk-Treasurer upon their request.
   (C)   All claims for payment must be properly itemized and documented.
Improper charges or improperly itemized and documented charges as well as all
interest, carrying charges, or penalties, shall be the personal responsibility
of the individual user. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to pay any annual
maintenance fee for the credit card account.
   (D)   The below-referenced departments and elected officers are authorized
to maintain and use the number of credit cards with corresponding credit limits
as shown in the table below. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to apply in the
city’s
name to the bank for such Visa and/or Mastercard Charge credit cards for
commercial and business use by the city’s officers and employees. Further, the
city is authorized and empowered to pay all indebtedness incurred by the use of
such credit cards, whether such use is authorized or unauthorized, including
all indebtedness incurred under the prior resolutions. Further, the bank is
authorized to rely upon this resolution until written notice of its revocation
is delivered to the bank and that the authority granted by this section will
apply with equal force and effect to the successors in office to the elected
officers and appointed officials herein named.
Name on Account and on Billing Address Number of Cards Credit Limit per Dept.
Card
Name on Account and   Billing Address      Number of Cards Credit Limit per
on Card                                                    Dept.
Mayor - City of       10 S. State St.      2               $6,500
Greenfield            Greenfield, IN 46140
Clerk-Treasurer -     10 S. State St.      1               $5,000
City of Greenfield    Greenfield, IN 46140
Maintenance           10 S. State St.
Department - City of  Greenfield, IN 46140 1               $3,000
Greenfield
Animal Management -   10 S. State St.      1               $5,000
City of Greenfield    Greenfield, IN 46140
Cemetery - City of    10 S. State St.      2               $4,000
Greenfield            Greenfield, IN 46140
Engineering Dept. -   10 S. State St.      1               $4,000
City of Greenfield    Greenfield, IN 46140
Fire Dept. - City of  10 S. State St.      2               $8,000
Greenfield            Greenfield, IN 46140
Garage - City of      10 S. State St.      1               $3,000
Greenfield            Greenfield, IN 46140
IT Department - City  10 S. State St.      1               $15,000
of Greenfield         Greenfield, IN 46140
Parks & Recreation -  10 S. State St.      3               $10,000
City of Greenfield    Greenfield, IN 46140
*Parks & Recreation -
Increased during the  10 S. State St.      3               $25,000
summer months from    Greenfield, IN 46140
May to September*
Planning - City of    10 S. State St.      1               $4,000
Greenfield            Greenfield, IN 46140
Police Department -   10 S. State St.      1               $8,000
City of Greenfield    Greenfield, IN 46140
Power & Light - City  10 S. State St.      1               $6,000
of Greenfield         Greenfield, IN 46140
Street Department -   10 S. State St.      2               $6,000
City of Greenfield    Greenfield, IN 46140
Utility Billing       10 S. State St.
Customer Service -    Greenfield, IN 46140 1               $2,000
City of Greenfield
Waste Water Utility - 10 S. State St.      2               $6,000
City of Greenfield    Greenfield, IN 46140
Water Utility - City  10 S. State St.      2               $6,000
of Greenfield         Greenfield, IN 46140
 
(Res. 2004-19, passed 12-16-2004; Res. 2009-9, passed 11-18-2009; Ord. 2020-22,
passed 9-23-2020; Ord. 2022-12, passed 4-27-2022; Ord. 2024-42, passed 1-8-
2025)
§ 30.11 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may make investments having a maturity of more
than two years but not more than five years.
   (B)   The investments shall be made in accordance with I.C. 5-13.
   (C)   The total investments of the city outstanding under I.C. 5-13-9-5.7
shall not exceed 25% of the total portfolio of public funds invested by the
city, including balances in transaction accounts.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer may invest available funds in the following
manner:
      (1)   Securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Treasury or fully guaranteed by the United States and issued by any of the
following:
         (a)   The United States Treasury.
         (b)   A federal agency.
         (c)   A federal instrumentality.
         (d)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
      (2)   Securities fully guaranteed an issue by any of the following:
         (a)   A federal agency.
         (b)   A federal instrumentality.
         (c)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
      (3)   Insured Certificates of Deposit.
      (4)   GSE's.
   (E)   The above stated policy shall become effective January 1, 2024 and
shall expire December 31, 2027.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 12-10-2014; Ord. 2020-16, passed 4-22-2020; Ord. 2023-36,
passed 11-22-2023; Ord. 2024-35, passed 11-27-2024)
§ 30.12 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS.
   (A)   The City of Greenfield’s Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to use
electronic funds transfers for official business of the City of Greenfield for
all departments within the City of Greenfield.
   (B)   Electronic fund transfers. Electronic fund transfers shall include
automated clearinghouse payments (ACH), wire transfers, direct deposit, on-line
banking transactions, telephone transfers, and other electronically authorized
or implemented transfers or payments on behalf of all departments within the
City of Greenfield.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 9-28-2022)
CITY FUNDS
§ 30.25 CITY PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a nonreverting fund entitled the “City Promotional Fund”. Common
Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General
Fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the
betterment of the city. Expenditures from this fund may include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state, and national
associations of a civic, educational, or governmental nature, which have, as
their purpose, the betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals, and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business or meetings or organizations to which the municipality
belongs. However, lodging expense shall only be allowed for persons who reside
50 miles or more from the conference location unless the Board specifically
approves the lodging;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the municipality, including meeting room rental, decorations,
meals, and travel;
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates on objects such as
commemorative keys, clocks and the like;
      (5)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Mayor and/or Common Council
to directly relate to the promotion or betterment of the city including, but
not limited to, coffee, coffee supplies, soda, and water; and
      (6)   Floral gifts or other contributions as deemed appropriate by the
Mayor and/or Common Council.
   (B)   No expenses shall be allowed from the City Promotional Fund without
prior authorization and approval of the Mayor. Claims for expenses under this
section shall be allowed as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983; Ord. 2022-39, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 30.26 PETTY CASH FUNDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a fund entitled the “Petty Cash Fund” with the amount of $800 to be
utilized by the utilities in connection with the collection of utility payments
from the financial institutions.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a fund entitled the “Parks Petty Cash Fund” with the amount of $550 to
be utilized by the Parks Department in connection with its operations.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a fund entitled the “Cemetery Petty Cash Fund” with the amount of $500
to be utilized by the cemetery in connection with its operations.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a fund entitled Police Investigative Aid Petty Cash Fund in the amount
of and never to exceed the amount of $3,500 to be utilized by the Greenfield
Police Department in connection with its various investigations.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 8-23-2023; Ord. 2023-29, passed 10-25-2023)
§ 30.27 ENDOWMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a fund entitled the “Endowment Fund for Park Cemetery”.
   (B)   The monies held in the Endowment Fund for Park Cemetery shall be held
in a separate account from the general operating funds for the park cemetery.
   (C)   The Endowment Fund for Park Cemetery shall be funded with monies
received by the city that are not otherwise required to be used for purposes
for which such monies were received. Monies held in the Endowment Fund for Park
Cemetery shall be invested by the Clerk-Treasurer in accordance with the
investment policies set forth in §
30.11.
   (D)   On an annual basis, the Clerk-Treasurer shall separately credit each
bequest or account with the interest earned on the principal amount of such
bequest or account. At the end of each fiscal year, to the extent the interest
earned on any bequest or account exceeds 10% of the principal amount of such
bequest or account (“Excess Interest Earnings”) and remains unspent, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall transfer such excess interest earnings, to the operating fund
for the park cemetery for the perpetual care of all lots in park cemetery.
(Ord. 1988-2, passed 3-24-1988; Ord. 1997-12, passed 7-24-1997)
§ 30.28 TELECOMMUNICATION FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a fund entitled the “Telecommunication Fund”.
   (B)   The monies in the Telecommunication Fund shall be held separately from
funds in the general operating budget of the city.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit into the Telecommunication Fund the
proceeds of all franchise fees paid by cable television licensees to the city.
   (D)   Any monies received that are not otherwise required to be used to
carry out the purpose for which the money was received shall be invested by the
Clerk-Treasurer in accordance with the investment policies set forth in §
30.11.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 3-4-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Cable television franchise, see
Chapter 110
§ 30.29 GIFT OR DONATION FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain for each of the city departments a fund entitled the “Gift Fund or
Donation Fund” with each Gift Fund or Donation Fund also containing the
respective name of the city department for which it is established.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby further directed and authorized to
accept restricted donations and to hold such restricted donations in the
applicable departmental Gift Fund or Donation Fund and to establish and
maintain appropriate sub-accounts for each restricted donation. For the
purposes of this subchapter, RESTRICTED DONATIONS are defined as funds gifted
to the city on which the donor has attached terms, conditions, or purposes for
which the funds can be used.
   (C)   Each departmental Gift Fund or Donation Fund shall be perpetual and
continue until otherwise terminated by Common Council. Upon the termination of
any departmental Gift Fund or Donation Fund, the disposition of the proceeds
therein shall be determined by Common Council.
(Ord. 2001-8, passed 4-26-2001)
§ 30.30 POLICE VEHICLE FUND.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a nonreverting fund to be entitled the “Police Vehicle Fund”. The
proceeds held in the Police Vehicle Fund will be subject to the following terms
and conditions.
   (A)   Proceeds received by the city from the sale or disposition of police
vehicles shall be transferred to the Clerk-Treasurer and deposited into the
Police Vehicle Fund.
   (B)   Additional monies received from any other source may be transferred to
the Clerk-Treasurer and deposited into the Police Vehicle Fund.
   (C)   Monies held in the Police Vehicle Fund may be used only for the
purpose of paying for the repairs of any police vehicle involved in an accident
or for the purchase or leasing of motor vehicles for the Police Department.
   (D)   Monies remaining in this Police Vehicle Fund at the end of each fiscal
year shall remain on deposit in the Police Vehicle Fund for the succeeding
fiscal year and shall not revert to the General Fund.
   (E)   In the event the Common Council should, by ordinance, terminate the
Police Vehicle Fund, unless such ordinance directs otherwise, all monies then
held in the Police Vehicle Fund shall be transferred to the Clerk-Treasurer and
deposited into the General Fund.
(Ord. 2002-7, passed 3-28-2002; Ord. 2022-31, passed 9-28-2022)
§ 30.31 RAINY DAY FUND.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a fund to be entitled the “Rainy Day Fund” subject to the following
terms and conditions.
   (A)   The source of funding for the Rainy Day Fund shall be supplemental
distributions received by the city from the local income tax (LIT) and the
economic development income tax (EDIT).
   (B)   The monies held in the Rainy Day Fund shall only be used for capital
projects approved by Common Council.
   (C)   The Rainy Day Fund shall be subject to the same appropriation
processes as the other city funds that receive tax money.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 2-26-2004)
§ 30.32 LOCAL ROAD AND STREET FUND.
   In accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-5-15, the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed
and authorized to establish and maintain a fund entitled the “Local Road and
Street Fund”. The Clerk-Treasurer is further directed and authorized to deposit
any monies received by the city from the County Wheel Tax Fund into the Local
Road and Street Fund subject to the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The monies in the Local Road and Street Fund shall only be used to
construct, reconstruct, repair, or maintain city streets and city roads.
   (B)   The monies held in the Local Road and Street Fund shall be subject to
the same appropriation processes as the other city funds that receive tax
money.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 2-26-2004)
§ 30.33 GREENFIELD WAR MEMORIAL FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a fund to be entitled the “Greenfield War Memorial Fund”. The purpose
of the Greenfield War Memorial Fund is for the design, construction, and
maintenance of the war memorial site to be located at 100 South State Street,
Greenfield, Indiana, the previous location of the City Hall. The Greenfield War
Memorial Fund shall be funded with the proceeds of private donations from
whatever source, with such funds to be disbursed at the direction of the Board
in accordance with the authorized purposes set forth herein.
   (B)   In creating and maintaining the Greenfield War Memorial Fund, the
Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to comply with all state laws, rules, and
regulations of the State Board of Accounts and the Code of Ordinances. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall identify the Greenfield War Memorial Fund in accordance
with the processes and procedures of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 1-23-2008)
§ 30.34 JUSTICE DEPARTMENT NONREVERTING FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to establish and
maintain a special nonreverting fund entitled the “Justice Department
Nonreverting Fund”, which shall be held as a subsidiary fund of the General
Fund. Whenever the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, seizes funds in
accordance with I.C. 34-24-1-1 or 21 U.S.C. § 881, the funds derived from such
seizure shall be immediately transferred to the Clerk-Treasurer for deposit in
the Justice Department Nonreverting Fund.
   (B)   Disposition of proceeds derived from forfeited property pursuant to
I.C. 34-24-1-5 shall be deposited into the Justice Department Nonreverting
Fund, to be distributed pursuant to court order as may be issued in each
forfeiture action, and as substantiated by a duly authorized claim issued and
executed by, or on behalf of, the Chief of Police, with any excess funds to be
transferred to the Treasurer of the state for deposit in the common school fund
pursuant to a court order.
   (C)   In accordance with I.C. 34-24-1-9, proceeds forfeited under 18 U.S.C.
§ 981(e), 19 U.S.C. § 1616a, or 21 U.S.C. § 881(e) and any related regulations
as may be adopted by the United States Department of Justice, from time to
time, shall be deposited into the Justice Department Nonreverting Fund.
   (D)   Proceeds deposited into the Justice Department Nonreverting Fund only
be expended for the following purposes:
      (1)   Purposes related to the investigation and/or prosecution of
criminal activity or offenses associated with controlled substances within the
county;
      (2)   The purpose of reimbursing investigatory expenses and/or
prosecutorial expenses related to the investigation of criminal activity or
offenses associated with controlled substances within the county; or
      (3)   Upon approval of a duly executed claim by the Chief of Police and
approved by the Board, for any other purpose consistent with state and federal
laws and regulations.
   (E)   In accordance with the Department of Treasury rules and regulations,
there is hereby created a Nonreverting Department of Treasury Equitable Sharing
Fund into which all such funds disbursed by the Department of Treasury
equitable sharing program shall be deposited and which may only be used in
strict compliance with the Department of Treasury guide to equitable sharing
and all amendments, revisions, or supplements thereto.
(Ord. 2024-38, passed 2-12-2025)
§ 30.35 HEALTH REIMBURSEMENT ACCOUNT NONREVERTING FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a special nonreverting fund entitled the “Health Reimbursement Account
Nonreverting Fund”.
   (B)   On an annual basis, the Clerk-Treasurer shall transfer from the
General Fund into the Health Reimbursement Account Nonreverting Fund, such
amounts as are necessary to fully satisfy the maximum healthcare claim exposure
of the city for the succeeding health policy period (the “claim exposure
amount”). The determination and recommendation of such claim exposure amount
shall be made by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   After being deposited, funds held in the Health Reimbursement Account
Nonreverting Fund are to be disbursed to the city’s third-party health plan
administrator in amounts equal to claims submitted to and approved by the Board
in accordance with the standard claim process of the city.
(Ord. 2009-16, passed 5-27-2009)
§ 30.36 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a fund entitled the Local Income Tax Economic Development Fund into
which all funds received by the city from the County Auditor denominated as the
economic development allocation of the Local Income Tax (LIT) shall be
deposited and out of which disbursement shall be made in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   Funds held in the Local Income Tax Economic Development Fund may be
used for the following purposes:
      (1)   For paying, notwithstanding any other law, under a written
agreement, all or a part of the interest owed by a private developer or user on
a loan extended by a financial institution or other lender to the developer or
user if the proceeds of the loan are to be used to finance an economic
development project;
      (2)   For the retirement of bonds for economic development projects;
      (3)   For leases or bonds entered into or issued prior to the date the
economic development income tax was imposed if the purpose of the lease or
bonds would have qualified as a purpose at the time the lease was entered into
or the bonds were issued;
      (4)   The construction or acquisition of, or remedial action with respect
to, a capital project for which the unit is empowered to issue general
obligation bonds or establish a fund under any statute listed in I.C. 6-1.1-
18.5-9.8;
      (5)   The retirement of bonds issued under any provision of state law for
a capital project;
      (6)   The payment of lease rentals under statute for a capital project;
      (7)   Contract payments to a nonprofit corporation whose primary
corporate purpose is to assist government in planning and implementing economic
development projects;
      (8)   Operating expenses of a governmental entity that plans or
implements economic development projects;
      (9)   Funding substance removal or remedial action in a designated unit;
      (10)   Funding of a revolving fund established under I.C. 5-1-14-14;
      (11)   For any lawful purpose for which money in any of its other funds
may be used;
      (12)   For making transfers required by I.C. 36-7.5-4-12; and
      (13)   For a regional venture capital fund established under this chapter
or a local venture capital fund established under I.C. 6-3.6-10.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, an economic development project is
defined as any project that:
      (1)   The city determines will:
         (a)   Promote significant opportunities for the gainful employment of
its citizens;
         (b)   Attract a major new business enterprise to the unit; or
         (c)   Retain or expand a significant business enterprise within the
unit.
      (2)   Involves expenditures for:
         (a)   The acquisition of land;
         (b)   Interests in land;
         (c)   Site improvements;
         (d)   Infrastructure improvements;
         (e)   Buildings;
         (f)   Structures;
         (g)   Rehabilitation, renovation, and enlargement of buildings and
structures;
         (h)   Machinery;
         (i)   Equipment;
         (j)   Furnishings;
         (k)   Facilities;
         (l)   Administrative expenses associated with such a project,
including contract payments authorized under I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-11;
         (m)   Operating expenses authorized under I.C. 6-3.6-10; or
         (n)   To the extent not otherwise allowed, substance removal or
remedial action in a designated unit, or any combination of these.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 2-10-2010; Ord. 2024-10, passed 4-24-2024)
§ 30.37 LOCAL INCOME TAX FUND (LIT FUND).
    As required by I.C. 6-3-6, the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and
authorized to establish and maintain a fund entitled the "Local Income Tax
Public Safety Fund". Said fund shall be utilized for the purposes of receiving
public safety allocations from the Local Income Tax (LIT) received from the
County Auditor. The monies on deposit within said fund shall be appropriated by
the Common Council of the City of Greenfield, Indiana for Public Safety
purposes.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 2-9-2011; Ord. 2024-10, passed 4-24-2024)
§ 30.38 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION CASH EXCHANGE FUND.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8-2, the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and
authorized to establish and maintain a cash exchange fund, entitled the
“Greenfield Department of Parks and Recreation Cash Exchange Fund”, to be
funded in the initial amount of $2,175, which shall be divided among and held
within four sub-accounts described below.
   (A)   Pool Cash Exchange Fund. This sub-account shall be initially funded by
the City Clerk-Treasurer with $400, which shall be drawn upon at the opening of
the swimming pool operated by the City Parks and Recreation Department for
utilization to make change for individuals paying the cost of admission to the
pool with the further provision that, upon the closing of the swimming pool
each season, the entire amount shall be remitted back to the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
   (B)   Pool Concession Cash Exchange Fund. This sub-account shall be
initially funded by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the amount of $600, which shall
be drawn upon the opening of the swimming pool operated by the City Parks and
Recreation Department for utilization to make change for individuals buying
concessions at the department operated concession stand, with the further
provision that upon the closing of the swimming pool each season, the entire
amount shall be remitted back to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   Riley Home Cash Exchange Fund. The Riley Home Cash Exchange Fund sub-
account shall be initially funded by the Clerk-Treasurer in the amount of $75,
which shall be drawn on at the beginning of each operational season for the
Riley Home by the Parks and Recreation Department and utilized to make change
for those individuals paying admission to the Riley Home. Upon the close of the
Riley Home for the operational season, the entire amount referenced herein
shall be remitted to the Clerk-Treasurer for deposit in the Riley Home Cash
Exchange Fund until the succeeding operational season for the Riley Home.
   (D)   Department of Parks and Recreation Office Cash Exchange Fund. The
Department of Parks and Recreation Office Cash Exchange Fund sub-account shall
be initially funded by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the amount of $100 to be
utilized to make change for individuals paying fees to participate in the
programs operated by the Department of Parks and Recreation.
   (E)   Department of Parks and Recreation Kids Kamp Field Trip Program. This
sub-account shall be initially funded by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the amount
of $1,000 to be utilized and maintained for cash payments to enable the Kamp
participants to attend weekly field trips throughout the eight-week summer
program with the further provision that upon the closing of each operational
season, the remaining funds shall be remitted back to the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 4-27-2011; Res. 2016-4, passed 6-8-2016; Res. 2018-3,
passed 4-25-2018; Ord. 2019-9, passed 4-24-2019; Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-10-
2019)
§ 30.39 LOCAL INCOME TAX CERTIFIED SHARES AND PROPERTY TAX REFUND CREDIT TAX
FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a Local Income Tax Certified Shares/Property Tax Refund Credit Fund
into which shall be deposited all monies received from the County Auditor
representing the city's certified share allocation and property tax refund
credit allocation.
   (B)   The monies received for deposit into the Local Income Tax Certified
Shares/Property Tax Refund Credit Fund shall be subject to the same
appropriation process as other city funds that receive tax money.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 4-24-2024)
§ 30.40 MISCELLANEOUS GRANTS FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a nonreverting fund entitled the “264-Miscellaneous Grants Fund”. The
264-Miscellaneous Grants Fund shall receive grant funds, not to exceed $7,500
for each grant.
   (B)   The utilization of these monies deposited in the 264-Miscellaneous
Grants Fund shall be non-restricted and no supplemental reporting shall be
required under the terms of such grants.
(Ord. 2016-20, passed 1-11-2017)
§ 30.41 LOCAL ROAD AND BRIDGE MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed and authorized to establish and
maintain a nonreverting fund entitled the “265-Local Road and Bridge Matching
Grant Fund”. The 265-Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund is funded with
the proceeds of funds received from the State Department of Transportation, as
well as funds transferred from the LOIT Special Distribution Fund 257 earmarked
for local road and bridge improvements.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 1-11-2017)
§ 30.42 PARK NONREVERTING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a special nonreverting fund to be known as the
“Park Nonreverting Fund” into which are to be deposited all funds received to
be designated as account number 211.
   (B)   The funds or monies within said nonreverting fund may be used for
expenditures in the following categories:
 
Fund          Expenditures
211100111.000 Non-reverting salaries
211100213.000 Non-reverting miscellaneous supplies
211100442.00  Non-reverting equipment
211100500.00  Non-reverting non-appropriated
211100501.00  Non-reverting refunds
211100503.00  Non-reverting Kids Kamp
 
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 11-28-2018)
§ 30.43 COUNTY JAIL EXTENSION PROJECT NONREVERTING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a special non-reverting fund to be known as
the county “Jail Extension Project Fund No. 605”.
   (B)   Expenditures may be made from Fund No. 605 for all expenses associated
with the county jail extension project, including, but not limited to, the
design, construction, land acquisition, or any other expense associated with
the extension of water and wastewater facility from their current point of
termination to a connection point set forth in the associated contractual
documents as well as extension from said connection point to the jail facility.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 3-11-2020)
§ 30.44 COURT MANDATED FUND.
   There is hereby established a new nonreverting fund to be known as the
“Court Mandated Fund” and given number 460. The Court Mandated Fund shall
receive various funds pursuant to Circuit or Superior Court orders and the
monies in the Fund shall be subject to the terms of said court orders.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 2-28-2018)
§ 30.45 K-9 SHIRLEY GIBBS FUND.
   There is hereby established a new nonreverting fund to be known as the “K-
9 Shirley Gibbs Fund” and given number 446. The 446 Fund shall receive funds
from the Shirley Gibbs Trust, and from other donations or fundraising events
conducted by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of the City Police Department
canine unit to be used for the benefit of said unit. The monies in the Fund
shall be subject to the same appropriation process as other city funds that
receive tax money.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 2-28-2018; Ord. 2020-12, passed 3-25-2020)
§ 30.46 BVP NONREVERTING FUND.
   There is hereby created a special nonreverting “BVP Nonreverting Fund” into
which grant monies received for the purchase of replacement protective vests
for the City Police Department shall be deposited, with said fund to be
designated as Fund 266.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-27-2019)
§ 30.47 NONREVERTING STATE SEIZURE FUND.
   (A)   From August 28, 2019, the “Nonreverting State Seizure Fund” shall be
denominated as the “Nonreverting Law Enforcement Fund 270”.
   (B)   There is hereby created a nonreverting fund to be denominated as the
“Nonreverting Department of Treasury Equitable Sharing Fund”, identified as the
“Homeland Security Investigation Fund” denominated as “Fund 271100500.000”,
into which all funds received from the Department of Treasury Equitable Sharing
Program are to be deposited and which may only be utilized in accordance with
the Department of Treasury Guide to Equitable Sharing and all amendments,
revisions, or supplements thereto.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-28-2019)
§ 30.48 NOTIFICATION OF EXTRAORDINARY EXPENDITURES.
   Effective upon passage of the ordinance contained in this section, it shall
be the policy of the city that the Common Council be informed, in writing, by
applicable department head and/or manager of any expenditure in excess of
$500,000, as authorized by the City Board of Public Works and Safety, and the
identity of the fund or funds from which said expenditures are to be paid and
that said written notification become a part of the permanent official records
for the city.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-27-2019)
§ 30.49 NEXT LEVEL TRAILS GRANT NONREVERTING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a special nonreverting fund to be known as the
Next Level Trails Grant Nonreverting Fund No. 269.
   (B)   There shall be deposited into said fund any and all monies received
from the State of Indiana pursuant to the Next Level Trails Grant Program.
   (C)   Expenditures may be made from Fund No. 269 for costs incurred
associated with the construction of the Franklin Street Trails Extension.
(Ord. 2022-10, passed 3-23-2022)
§ 30.50 CREATING PLACES NONREVERTING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a special nonreverting fund to be known as the
Creating Places Nonreverting Fund No. 2459.
   (B)   Expenditures from Fund No. 2459 may be made for any and all
expenditures necessary and associated with the Sensory Wall Project to be
located adjacent to Michael's Playground within the City of Greenfield,
Indiana.
(Ord. 2022-27, passed 8-10-2022)
§ 30.51 OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUND- RESTRICTED.
   There is hereby established a special nonreverting fund known as Opioid
Settlement Fund- Restricted as Fund #2257. Contributions to the fund shall be
the restricted portion of Opioid Settlement Funds received from the State of
Indiana by the city as a participating political subdivision from a national
settlement with Johnson & Johnson, AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal Health, and
McKesson. Expenditures may be made from said fund by appropriation by the
Common Council of Greenfield, Indiana for any purposes approved by said Common
Council from the List attached to Ordinance 2022-44 as Exhibit A and
incorporated herein by reference. This fund shall be a perpetual fund until
terminated by future ordinance, and any funds remaining at time of termination
shall be returned to the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 2022-44, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 30.52 OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUND- UNRESTRICTED.
   There is hereby established a special nonreverting fund known as Opioid
Settlement Fund- Unrestricted as Fund #2256. Contributions to the fund shall be
the unrestricted portion of Opioid Settlement Funds received from the State of
Indiana by the City as a participating political subdivision from a national
settlement with Johnson & Johnson, AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal Health, and
McKesson. Expenditures may be made from said fund by appropriation by the
Common Council of Greenfield, Indiana for any purposes approved by said Common
Council. This fund shall be a perpetual fund until terminated by future
ordinance, and any funds remaining at time of termination shall be returned to
the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 2022-45, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 30.53 SHELTER HOUSE RECONSTRUCTION NONREVERTING FUND NO. 4650.
   (A)   There is hereby created a special nonreverting fund to be known as the
Shelter House Reconstruction Nonreverting Fund No. 4650.
   (B)   There shall be deposited into said fund any and all monies received
from Sentry Insurance relating to the reconstruction of the Shelter House.
   (C)   Expenditures may be made from Fund No. 4650 for costs incurred
associated with the reconstruction of the Shelter House and to reimburse the
Greenfield Parks and Recreation Department for loss of rental income from the
date of the destruction of the Shelter House until such time as it is available
to be rented again.
(Ord. 2023-17, passed 6-28-2023)
§ 30.54 HOMELAND SECURITY OVERTIME NONREVERTING FUND.
   There is hereby established a special Nonreverting Fund known as the
Homeland Security-Overtime Nonreverting Fund referenced as Fund #2424. Initial
contributions to said fund shall be made from the Local Option Income Tax
Public Safety Fund #2240 in the amount of $10,000. Thereafter the sole source
of monetary contributions shall be overtime payments received from the
Department of Treasury. Said funds may only be expended in order to make earned
overtime payments to applicable officers.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 4-24-2024)
§ 30.55 NONREVERTING POLICE EVIDENCE FUND.
   There is hereby created a nonreverting fund to be known as the Greenfield
Police Department's Police Evidence Nonreverting Fund No. 2430 into which all
items of evidence taken into custody by the Greenfield Police Department under
any circumstances shall be deposited and out of which only disbursements
authorized by Court Order may be made or where a forfeiture order has not been
issued, then returned to the individual from whom the evidence was obtained.
(Ord. 2024-34, passed 11-27-2024)
§ 30.56 GREENFIELD FIRE TERRITORY NONREVERTING FUND.
   There is hereby established a nonreverting fund for the Greenfield Fire
Territory entitled the Greenfield Fire Territory Nonreverting Fund #2304471.000
which fund is subject to the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   Monies received from any training programs, property-casualty
insurance payments and/or reimbursements, any fines, inspection fees, or permit
fees generated by the Greenfield Fire Territory, and any monies received by way
of reimbursement from members who failed to successfully complete training, the
cost of which was paid in advance by the Greenfield Fire Territory shall be
deposited into said fund.
   (B)   The monies maintained within said nonreverting fund may be used for
the following purposes:
      (1)   The purchase of training materials.
      (2)   The purchase of training equipment.
      (3)   The payment of instructors.
      (4)   The purchase of fire prevention materials.
      (5)   The repair, maintenance, or replacement of real property and/or
personal property including, but not limited to, structures, equipment and
automobiles resulting from a property or casualty loss.
      (6)   The cost of training paramedics.
      (7)   Food and beverage for training sessions.
(Ord. 2024-36, passed 11-27-2024)
§ 30.57 JUSTICE DEPARTMENT OVERTIME NONREVERTING FUND.
   There is hereby established a special Nonreverting Fund known as the Justice
Department Overtime Nonreverting Fund referenced as Fund #2508. Initial
contributions to said fund shall be made from the Local Option Income Tax
Public Safety Fund #2240 in the amount of $10,000. Thereafter the sole source
of monetary contributions shall be overtime payments received from the
Department of Justice. Said funds may only be expended in order to make earned
overtime payments to applicable officers.
(Ord. 2024-38, passed 2-12-2025)
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 30.60 SHORT TITLE.
   This policy shall be known as the identity theft prevention program
(hereinafter “program”).
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.61 PURPOSE.
   This policy is adopted to comply with the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq., and federal regulations
promulgated at 16 C.F.R. § 681.2, as the same may be amended, repealed, or
replaced, from time to time, in order to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity
theft by identifying and detecting identity theft red flags and by responding
to such red flags in a manner that will prevent identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.62 DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, utility account, checking account, or savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefore.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes utility companies
and telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   NOTICE OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCY. A notice sent to a user by a consumer
reporting agency, pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 1681(c)(h)(l), that informs the user
of a substantial difference between the address for the consumer that the user
provided to request the consumer report and the address(es) in the agency’s
file for the consumer.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information, and driver’s
license information and for a natural person includes his or her social
security number, mother’s birth name, and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the city.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.63 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Customer Service Department is a creditor, pursuant to 16 C.F.R. §
681.2, due to its provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which
payment is made in arrears.
   (B)   Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of services
include wastewater utility accounts and stormwater utility accounts.
   (C)   No Utility Department has prior history with identity theft related to
covered accounts.
   (D)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, making payments on such accounts, and providing account
information access in person or via phone or website have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (E)   All Utility Departments limit access to personal identifying
information to those employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening
or restoring covered accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts.
Information provided to such employees is entered directly into all Utility
Department computer systems and is not otherwise recorded.
   (F)   All Utility Departments determine that there is a low risk of identity
theft occurring in the following ways (if any):
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account, or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account or accounts;
and
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account of another person’s credit card, bank account, or other method of
payment.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.64 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   As a precondition to opening a covered account, each applicant shall provide
name, address, telephone number, owner of property, and occupancy date with
personal identifying information of the customer. Such information shall be
entered directly into the Utility Department’s computer system and shall not
otherwise be recorded. Each account shall be assigned an account number and
personal identification number (PIN) which shall be unique to that account. The
Utility Department may utilize computer software to randomly generate assigned
PINs and to encrypt account numbers and PINs.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.65 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized personnel of all Utility Customer Service Departments.
   (B)   Such password(s) shall be changed on a regular basis by each
individual user; shall be at least eight characters in length; and shall
contain letters, numbers, and symbols.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the utility customer service manager and the
password changed immediately.
   (D)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential (to the extent allowed by law), and any request or
demand for such information shall be immediately forwarded to the Utility
Customer Service Manager.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.66 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event credit card payments that are made over the internet are
processed through a third-party service provider, such third-party service
provider shall certify to the city that it has an adequate identity theft
prevention program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone or on the city’s
website shall be entered directly into the customer’s account information in
the computer data base.
   (C)   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include
only the last four digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.67 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account, or accepting payment for a
covered account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity
theft. Such red flags shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   (1)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection
agencies, or service providers.
      (2)   Examples of such alerts are:
         (a)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
         (b)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a
consumer report; and
         (c)   A notice of address discrepancy discovered through the county’s
geographic information system.
   (B)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered or
forged;
      (2)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
      (3)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
      (4)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file, such as a signature card or a
recent check; and
      (5)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identifying information. Examples include:
      (1)   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with external
information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
the address does not match any address in the customer report;
      (2)   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor;
      (3)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
mail drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers, or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity;
      (4)   The social security number provided is the same as that submitted
by other applicants or customers;
      (5)   The address or telephone number provided is the same or similar to
the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number
of applicants or customers;
      (6)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete;
      (7)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor; and
      (8)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or customer
report.
   (D)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
Examples include:
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an account,
there is a request for the addition of authorized users on the account;
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns, such as where the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments;
      (3)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account, such as nonpayment when there
is no history of late or missed payments;
      (4)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s account;
      (5)   The Customer Service Department is notified that the customer is
not receiving paper account statements;
      (6)   The Customer Service Department is notified of unauthorized charges
or transactions in connection with a customer’s account; and
      (7)   The Customer Service Department is notified by a customer, law
enforcement, or another person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a
person engaged in identity theft.
   (E)   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims, or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to covered
accounts.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.68 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the City
Police Department. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that
identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Utility
Customer Service Manager, who may, in his or her discretion, determine that no
further action is necessary. If the customer service manager, in his or her
discretion, determines that further action is necessary, one or more of the
following responses as determined to be appropriate by the customer service
manager shall be performed:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting the
customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed the
customer’s covered account:
         (a)   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes, or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
         (b)   Close the account.
      (3)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer and
decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event that
the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such access
has caused additional charges to accrue;
      (4)   Notify law enforcement in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; and/or
      (5)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   In the event that an employee responsible for or involved in opening a
new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity
theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee shall use
his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red
flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the City
Police Department. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that
identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the Customer
Service Manager, who may, in his or her discretion, determine that no further
action is necessary. If the Customer Service Manager, in his or her discretion,
determines that further action is necessary, one or more of the following
responses as determined to be appropriate by the customer service manager shall
be performed:
      (1)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
      (2)   Deny the application for the new account;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
      (4)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.69 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   The Customer Service Department shall annually review and, as deemed
necessary, update the identity theft prevention program along with any relevant
red flags in order to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety
and soundness of the Department and its covered accounts from identity theft.
In so doing, the Department shall consider the following factors and exercise
its discretion in amending the program:
   (A)   The Customer Service Department experiences with identity theft;
   (B)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
   (C)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft;
   (D)   Updates in the types of accounts that all Utility Departments offer or
maintain; and
   (E)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.70 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   All utility managers are responsible for oversight of the program and
for program implementation. All utility managers are responsible for reviewing
reports prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and
with recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion
of the manager, to address changing identity theft risks, and to identify new
or discontinued types of covered accounts. Any recommended material changes to
the program shall be submitted to the City Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   The Utility Director will report to the City Board of Public Works and
Safety at least annually on compliance with the red flag requirements. The
report shall be due no later than December 31 each year and shall address
material matters related to the program and evaluate issues, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the program policies and procedures in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
   (C)   All managers are responsible for providing training to all employees
responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account, restoring an
existing covered account, or accepting payment for a covered account with
respect to the implementation and requirements of the identity theft prevention
program. Each Utility Manager shall exercise his or her discretion in
determining the amount and substance of training necessary.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.71 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that a Utility Department engages a service provider to perform
an activity in connection with one or more covered accounts, the Utility
Manager shall exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such arrangements in
order to ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the service provider’s
activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed
upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in
the performance of the service provider’s activities and take appropriate steps
to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.72 TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES.
   In the event that the customer service receives a notice of address
discrepancy, the employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses for the
purpose of providing the service or account sought by the consumer shall
perform one or more of the following activities, as determined to be
appropriate by such employee:
   (A)   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
      (1)   Information the utility obtains and uses to verify a consumer’s
identity in accordance with the requirements of the customer information
program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. § 5318(1);
      (2)   Information the utility maintains in its own records, such as
applications for service, change of address notices, other customer account
records, or tax records; or
      (3)   Information the utility obtains from third-party sources that are
deemed reliable by the relevant employee.
   (B)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
§ 30.73 METHODS OF CONFIRMING CUSTOMER ADDRESSES.
   The employee charged with confirming customer addresses may, in his or her
discretion, confirm the accuracy of an address through one or more of the
following methods:
   (A)   Verifying the address with the customer;
   (B)   Reviewing the Utility Department records to verify the customer’s
address;
   (C)   Verifying the address through third-party sources; or
   (D)   Using other reasonable processes.
(Ord. 2009-9, passed 5-13-2009)
CHAPTER 31: EXECUTIVE BRANCH; CITY DEPARTMENTS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS; STATUTORY
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Executive Branch
   
31.01   Execution of executive powers of city
   
31.02   Mayor
   
31.03   Clerk-Treasurer
City Officials and Departments
   
31.15   Appointment of department heads
   
31.16   Authority of Department head to hire, purchase, contract
   
31.17   City Engineer
   
31.18   Planning Department
   
31.19   Department of Redevelopment
   
31.20   Department of Law
   
31.21   Department of Parks and Recreation
Statutory Boards of the City
   
31.35   Board of Public Works and Safety; duties and responsibilities;
organization
   
31.36   City Plan Commission
   
31.37   Economic Development Commission
   
31.38   Traffic Safety Commission; duties and responsibilities; organization
   
31.39   Establishment; composition of Board of Parks and Recreation; powers,
duties, and responsibilities of Board of Parks and Recreation
   
31.40   Park and recreational infrastructure impact fee
   
31.41   Police Pension Board of Trustees
   
31.42   Fire Department Merit Commission
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
§ 31.01 EXECUTION OF EXECUTIVE POWERS OF CITY.
   (A)   All powers and duties of the city that are executive or administrative
in nature shall be exercised or performed by the Mayor, another city officer,
or a city department.
   (B)   An ordinance of the Common Council requiring an executive or
administrative function to be performed may:
      (1)   Designate the department that is to perform that function; or
      (2)   Establish a new department or agency to perform that function.
   (C)   If an executive or administrative function is not assigned by a
statute, ordinance, or resolution, the Mayor shall assign that function to the
proper department or officer.
(I.C. 36-4-4-3) (Prior Code, § 23.01)
§ 31.02 MAYOR.
   The Mayor is the city executive and head of the Executive Branch. The Mayor
shall faithfully perform the duties and responsibilities contained in I.C. 36-
4-5 and other applicable state statutes.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
Cross-reference:
   Mayor as presiding officer of Common Council, see §
32.04
§ 31.03 CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is the fiscal officer of the city and shall perform the
duties assigned by I.C. 36-4-10-4, and such other duties as Common Council may,
by ordinance, require. The Clerk-Treasurer shall hire the employees in the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 23.02) (Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
Cross-reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer as Clerk of Common Council, see §§
31.03 and
32.05
CITY OFFICIALS AND DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.15 APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   The Mayor shall have the authority to appoint the following department heads
who shall serve at the leisure of the Mayor:
   (A)   The Fire Chief;
   (B)   The Police Chief;
   (C)   The City Attorney;
   (D)   The City Engineer; and
   (E)   Such other department heads as the Mayor may appoint.
§ 31.16 AUTHORITY OF DEPARTMENTS TO HIRE, PURCHASE, CONTRACT.
   Subject to the appropriation power of the Common Council, the departments
listed in this chapter shall have the ability to hire employees and purchase or
contract for materials or services as the Board of Public Works and Safety, or
other governing board or commission, deems necessary to perform their public
functions.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
§ 31.17 CITY ENGINEER.
   There is hereby created the office of City Engineer, the head of which shall
be appointed by the Mayor and whose duties shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
   (A)   Review development and erosion control plans;
   (B)   Plan and administer new public works projects;
   (C)   Administer compliance for the state requirements for grants, Indiana
Main Street, and stormwater maintenance; and
   (D)   Oversight of all engineering requirements for any and all departments
of the city.
(Prior Code, §§ 23.20, 23.21) (Ord. 1957-28, passed 8-26-1957; Ord. 1964-1,
passed 1-6-1964; Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983; Ord. 2008-28, passed 9-10-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Mayor’s appointment of Building Commissioner and City Engineer, see §
30.02
§ 31.18 PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established the Planning Department, whose department head,
appointed by the executive of the city, shall perform and/or supervise the
performance of the following functions in addition to any and all other
prescribed duties as set forth in
Chapter 150 and such other duties as may otherwise be prescribed within the
code:
   (A)   Review permit requests for new construction, remodeling, and accessory
uses;
   (B)   Conduct zoning compliance inspections and enforcement of all zoning
and building code violations;
   (C)   Inspection of construction of buildings;
   (D)   Function as staff for Advisory Plan Commission, Board of Zoning
Appeals, and Historic Board of Review, each as defined in
Chapter 150;
   (E)   Issue occupancy permits, improvement permits, sign permits, and
demolition permits;
   (F)   Perform all duties required by law or ordinance to be performed by the
Building Commissioner;
   (G)   The head of the Planning Department shall also perform and/or
supervise all duties designated as those of the Zoning Administrator, pursuant
to
Chapter 155; and
   (H)   The head of the Planning Department shall also perform and/or
supervise all obligations of the City Building Inspector position.
(Ord. 2008-28, passed 9-10-2008)
§ 31.19 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There is established the Department of Redevelopment of the city. The
Department will be controlled by a board of five members known as the City
Redevelopment Commission.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14, all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the city will be a taxing district to be known as the city’s
redevelopment district for the purpose of levying and collecting special
benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes as provided in I.C. 36-7-14.
   (C)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14.5-7, the City Redevelopment Authority
(the “Redevelopment Authority”) is hereby created as a separate body corporate
and politic and as an instrumentality of the city for the purposes and to
exercise the powers set forth in the Act or otherwise by law.
      (2)   The Redevelopment Authority shall be governed by a board of
directors consisting of five members, each of whom shall be appointed by the
Mayor.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall serve as the Secretary of the
Redevelopment Authority.
§ 31.20 DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   There is hereby established a Department of Law, pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-12.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
§ 31.21 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   There is hereby established a Department of Parks and Recreation to be
controlled and operated by the Park and Recreation Board established pursuant
to I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1973-14, passed 7-27-1973; Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
Cross-reference:
   Parks and Recreation Department; Board, see §§ 33.50 through 33.58
STATUTORY BOARDS OF THE CITY
§ 31.35 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES;
ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Board established. There is hereby established a Board of Public Works
and Safety within the Executive Branch. The Board shall be the chief
administrative body of the city and shall have control of the day-to-day
operations of the following executive departments which are established:
      (1)   Police Department;
      (2)   Fire Department;
      (3)   Utilities Department;
      (4)   Street Department;
      (5)   Animal Control Department;
      (6)   Engineering Department;
      (7)   Human Resources;
      (8)   Cemetery;
      (9)   Planning Department;
      (10)   Department of Law; and
      (11)   City garage.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities. The Board is hereby designated as the
purchasing agency for the city and its departments. The Board, in its capacity
as purchasing agency, shall have all the powers and duties authorized under
I.C. 5-22, the same as may be supplemented, from time to time, by ordinances
adopted by the Common Council and by policies adopted by the Board. The Board
in its capacity as purchasing agency shall act as the purchasing agency for
every public board, department, or other entity of the city. The Mayor, the
Clerk-Treasurer, and each department head shall act as purchasing agents for
that office department.
   (C)   Organization. The members of the Board are the Mayor and four voters
of the city who shall be appointed by the Mayor and serve at the leisure of the
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 23.03) (Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983; Ord. 1985-6, passed 3-14-
1985; Ord. 2004-36, passed 12-16-2004; Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-23-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Public Works and Safety, see I.C. 36-4-9-5, 36-4-9-8
§ 31.36 CITY PLAN COMMISSION.
   There is hereby established a Plan Commission for the city, pursuant to I.C.
36-7-4-101 through 36-7-4-1213.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Membership, see I.C. 36-7-4-207
§ 31.37 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   There is hereby established the City Economic Development Commission
organized pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of members and their terms, see I.C. 36-7-12-5
   Selections and nomination for membership, see I.C. 36-7-12-9
§ 31.38 TRAFFIC SAFETY COMMISSION; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES; ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Establishment of Traffic Safety Commission. There is hereby created a
Commission to be entitled and designated the “Traffic Safety Commission”.
   (B)   Duties and Responsibilities of Traffic Safety Commission. The duties
of the Traffic Safety Commission shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Developing and implementing coordinated traffic safety programs
which meet local needs;
      (2)   Acting in an advisory capacity to the Common Council and the Mayor
in the coordination of traffic safety activities of the official city agencies
and departments;
      (3)   Establishing traffic safety priorities for the city;
      (4)   Reviewing and approving project applications for funding;
      (5)   Serving in a liaison capacity between the city and the State
Department of Traffic Safety in developing the state highway safety program and
in meeting the national highway safety program standards;
      (6)   Promoting public acceptance of official programs proposed or
instigated by the city;
      (7)   Fostering public knowledge and support of traffic law enforcement
and traffic engineering problems;
      (8)   Cooperating with the schools of the city in promoting traffic
safety aids in the schools;
      (9)   Promoting the education of the public on traffic safety; and
      (10)   Generally assisting in the overall reduction of traffic accidents,
injuries, and deaths on the city’s streets.
   (C)   Organization. The Traffic Safety Commission shall consist of five
members, four of which shall be city officials and one of which shall not be a
city official. No member of the Traffic Safety Commission shall be paid or
granted any salary or compensation from the city for service on the commission.
The members of the Traffic Safety Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor
and shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified, unless
otherwise removed from the Traffic Safety Commission. The four city officials
shall consist of representatives from:
         (1)   City Police Department;
         (2)   City Engineer;
         (3)   City Street Department; and
         (4)   Common Council.
   (D)   Terms. The terms of the nonofficial member shall be for a two-year
period.
   (E)   Secretary. The Chairperson of the Commission shall appoint the
Secretary of the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to:
      (1)   Send all notices for the meeting of the Commission;
      (2)   Keep and preserve the minutes;
      (3)   Have custody and keep all documents and papers filed with the
Commission;
      (4)   Advise and consult with the Mayor, Common Council, and city
officials as to the work and recommendations of the Commission and its
committees;
      (5)   Work with organized community groups and others to carry forward
all plans and policies of the Commission as to traffic accident prevention
which may be approved by the Commission; and
      (6)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Commission.
   (F)   Meetings. The Commission shall meet at least once each month, and
shall meet on the call of the Chairperson or on call by a majority of its
members.
   (G)   Quorum. Three members shall constitute a quorum.
§ 31.39 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION; POWERS,
DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Establishment of Board. Pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq. and this
subchapter, there is hereby established a Board of Parks and Recreation.
   (B)   Organization of Board. The Board of Parks and Recreation shall be
comprised of five members, which shall include the following:
      (1)   Four members selected and appointed by the Mayor based upon their
respective interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation;
      (2)   One member shall be selected by the Board of School Trustees;
      (3)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board of Parks and
Recreation shall elect a President and a Vice-President. The Vice-President
shall have authority to act as the President of the Board during the absence or
disability of the President; and
      (4)   Members initially appointed to the Board of Parks and Recreation
shall serve for four- year terms: one for a term of one year; one for a term of
two years; one for a term of three years; and one for a term of four years.
Thereafter as a term expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year
term. All terms shall expire on the first Monday in January, but an appointee
shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
   (C)   Powers, duties, and responsibilities of Board. The Board of Parks and
Recreation shall have the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
      (1)   The power to perform all acts necessary to acquire and develop
sites and facilities to conduct such programs as are generally understood to be
park and recreation functions;
      (2)   The duty to administer the Department of Parks and Recreation,
including the power to oversee the Superintendent, and such other personnel as
the Board may determine to be necessary;
      (3)    The duty to prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of the city government;
      (4)    The power to accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes; and
      (5)   The power to create an Advisory Common Council and special
committees composed of citizens interested in the problems of parks and
recreation in accordance with state law.
§ 31.40 PARK AND RECREATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE IMPACT FEE.
   At least once every five years, and from time to time as so required, Common
Council shall adopt an ordinance assessing an equitable impact fee for the
purpose of planning and financing park and recreational infrastructure to serve
new development in the city. Such ordinance shall be incorporated by reference
as though set forth in full herein.
§ 31.41 POLICE PENSION BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   There shall be a Police Pension Board of Trustees to perform certain duties
as prescribed by I.C. 36-8-6 (1925 Fund) and I.C. 36-8-8 (1977 Fund) concerning
the statutory pensions of city police. The Board shall pay funeral benefits
pursuant to I.C. 36-8-6-9.8 and I.C. 36-8-8-16.
(Ord. 1959-15, passed 6-3-1959; Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
Cross-reference:
   Police Department, see
Chapter 34
§ 31.42 FIRE DEPARTMENT MERIT COMMISSION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, "Fire Department," has the meaning set
forth in §
35.01.
   (B)   By operation of I.C. 36-8-3.5-5.5, a Merit Commission is established
for the Fire Department effective January 1, 2025.
   (C)   The Merit Commission shall have powers and duties that are limited to
selection, appointment, performance evaluation, promotion, demotion, discipline
and dismissal of the full-time, paid active members of the Fire Department, as
determined by the rules adopted by the Merit Commission.
   (D)   The Board of Works may, at its discretion, further limit the powers
and duties of the Merit Commission by passage of a resolution.
   (E)   The initial members of the Merit Commission shall be appointed not
later than March 1, 2025. In accordance with I.C. 36-8-3.5-1.1(c) and the
requirements in I.C. 36-8-3.5-6(c), the Merit Commission shall be comprised of
nine members as follows:
      (1)   The five members of the Board of Works;
      (2)   Two members, elected by the active members of the Fire Department
pursuant to the procedure in I.C. 36-8-3.5-8, who are of different political
parties, as determined through the voter registration records of the three most
recent primary elections and who meet the following qualifications:
         (a)   Must have been a legal resident of the territory within the Fire
Department's jurisdiction for three consecutive years immediately preceding the
commissioner's term;
         (b)   Be a person of good moral character;
         (c)   Be a person of at least 21 years of age;
         (d)   May not be an active member of a police or fire department or
agency; and
         (e)   Must not receive any remuneration as salary from the city,
Center Township in Hancock County, or the Fire Department.
      (3)   One member, elected by the active members of the Fire Department
pursuant to the procedures in I.C. 36-8-3.5-8, who meets the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Must have been a legal resident of the territory within the Fire
Department's jurisdiction for three consecutive years immediately preceding the
Commissioner's term;
         (b)   Be a person of good moral character;
         (c)   Be a person of at least 21 years of age;
         (d)   Must not be an active member of a police or fire department or
agency;
         (e)   Must not be a past member of a police or fire department or
agency; and
         (f)   Must not receive any remuneration as salary from the city,
Center Township in Hancock County, or the Fire Department.
      (4)   One citizen member appointed by the Council who meets the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Must have been a legal resident of the territory within the Fire
Department's jurisdiction for three consecutive years immediately preceding the
Commissioner's term;
         (b)   Be a person of good moral character;
         (c)   Be a person of at least 21 years of age;
         (d)   Must not be an active member of a police or fire department or
agency; and
         (e)   Must not receive any remuneration as salary from the city,
Center Township in Hancock County, or the Fire Department.
   (F)   The terms of office members appointed under (E)(1) coincide with their
terms on the Board of Works. The term of office for members appointed under (E)
(2), (E)(3) or (E)(4) is four years, however, the initial term shall be for two
years for:
      (1)   One of the members appointed under (E)(2); and
      (2)   The member appointed under (E)(4).
   (G)   The Board of Works may, at its discretion, determine a per diem to be
paid to each commission member appointed under (E)(2), (E)(3) or (E)(4) for
each day of actual service for the Commission.
   (H)   Each Commission member shall take an oath of office to conscientiously
discharge the Commissioner's duties. A signed copy of the oath shall be filed
with the Board of Works.
(Ord. 2024-44, passed 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 32: LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Section
   
32.01   Legislative authority vested in Common Council
   
32.02   Councilmanic districts
   
32.03   Regular, special meetings
   
32.04   Presiding officer
   
32.05   Clerk-Treasurer as Clerk of Common Council
   
32.06   Order of business
   
32.07   Disorder in Common Council room
   
32.08   Introduction, adoption of ordinances and resolutions
   
32.09   Questions of order
   
32.10   Appeal from decision of presiding officer
   
32.11   Petition or comments of citizens
§ 32.01 LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY VESTED IN COMMON COUNCIL.
   The legislative branch of the city is the Common Council. The Common Council
shall have exclusive authority to adopt ordinances and appropriate tax monies
received by the city, and to perform other necessary and desirable legislative
functions.
(Prior Code, § 21.01) (Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
§ 32.02 COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS.
   The councilmanic districts of the city shall be numbered and determined as
hereinafter set forth with reference to the precinct numbers previously adopted
by the Board of Commissioners of Hancock County, Indiana, as follows:
   (A)   Councilmanic District #1. All that area within the corporate limits of
the City of Greenfield that lies east of Blue Road and south of McKenzie Road,
together with all that area within the City of Greenfield that lies north of
McKenzie Road and east of Apple Street.
   (B)   Councilmanic District #2. All that area within the corporate limits of
the City of Greenfield that lies west of Blue Road, south of McKenzie Road,
east of State Street, and north of Main Street; except that area that lies
North of Hancock Regional Hospital and west of Swope Street; together with all
that area within the City of Greenfield that lies north of McKenzie Road, west
of Apple Street, south of Walnut Ridge Subdivision, and east of Brandywine
Creek.
   (C)   Councilmanic District #3. All that area within the corporate limits of
the City of Greenfield that lies north of McKenzie Road, and west of Apple
Street; except that area that lies east of Brandywine Creek and south of Walnut
Ridge Subdivision; together with all that area within the City of Greenfield
bounded by a line described as follows; beginning at the intersection of
McKenzie Road and Franklin Street; thence south along Franklin Street to Park
Avenue; thence east along Park Avenue to State Street; thence north along State
Street to the northwest comer of the Hancock Regional Hospital property; thence
east along the north line of the Hospital to Swope Street; thence northerly
along Swope Street to McKenzie Road; thence west along McKenzie Road to the
point of beginning.
   (D)   Councilmanic District #4. All that area within the corporate limits of
the City of Greenfield that lies south of McKenzie Road, and north of Main
Street, and bounded on the east by a line described as follows; beginning at
the intersection of McKenzie Road and Franklin Street; thence south along
Franklin Street to Park Avenue; thence east along Park Avenue to School Street;
thence south along School Street to Main Street.
   (E)   Councilmanic District #5. All that area within the corporate limits of
the City of Greenfield that lies south of Main Street and west of Blue Road,
together with the area north of Main Street bounded on the east by State
Street, on the north by Park Avenue and on the west by School Street.
   (F)   In addition to the above districts, there shall be two at-large
members.
(Prior Code, § 21.02) (Ord. 1934-2, passed 3-7-1934; Ord. 1974-21, passed 11-
12-1974; Ord. 1982-19, passed 12-9-1982; Ord. 1992-20, passed 12-17-1992; Ord.
2002-30, passed 10-24- 2002; Ord. 2008-36, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2012-9,
passed 10-10-2012; Ord. 2022-25, passed 8-24-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Common Councilmanic Districts, see I.C. 36-4-6-4
§ 32.03 REGULAR, SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular meeting date and time for the Common
Council shall be at 7:00 p.m. on the second and fourth Wednesdays of each
month.
   (B)   A special meeting of the Common Council. Any member desiring to call a
special meeting of Common Council shall give a written notice of the time and
place of such meeting to the Mayor, to each Common Council member, and to the
Clerk-Treasurer at least 48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) before the time such meeting is to be held.
(Prior Code, § 21.03) (Ord. 1957-3, passed 1-2-1957; Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-
1983; Ord. 2002-5, passed 2-14-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings, see I.C. 36-4-6-7
§ 32.04 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of Common Council pursuant to I.C.
36-4-6-8. Meetings shall be conducted pursuant to the applicable statutes (I.C.
36-4-6-10 through 36-4-6-17) and in accordance with the rules set forth in §§
32.06 through
32.10 which are adopted as a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
§ 32.05 CLERK-TREASURER AS CLERK OF COMMON COUNCIL.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Clerk of Common Council and shall perform
the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-4-6-9 and such others as the Common Council
may direct.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
Cross-reference:
   Executive functions and duties of Clerk-Treasurer,
Chapter 31
§ 32.06 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business to be followed at a meeting of the Common Council
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Calling to order;
   (B)   Roll call by Clerk-Treasurer;
   (C)   Reading of minutes and approval;
   (D)   Reports from committees, boards, and commissions;
   (E)   Unfinished business, including ordinances or resolutions already
introduced;
   (F)   New business, including introduction of ordinances and resolutions;
   (G)   Miscellaneous business, including any matters not already considered;
   (H)   Petitions or comments of citizens; and
   (I)   Adjournment.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983; Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-23-2008)
§ 32.07 DISORDER IN COMMON COUNCIL ROOM.
   No person shall use violent or contemptuous language, behave in a disorderly
manner, or refuse to obey the orders of the Mayor or presiding officer in the
Common Council room while the Common Council is in session. The Mayor or
presiding officer may order the removal from the Common Council room of anyone
who intentionally disturbs the decorum of a Common Council meeting.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
§ 32.08 INTRODUCTION, ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   All proposed ordinances should be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer at
least two days before a regular meeting.
   (B)    All ordinances and resolutions shall be read by title only three
times before being passed and no ordinance shall pass on the same day which it
is introduced unless it is in compliance with the provisions of I.C. 36-4-6-13.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983; Ord. 2024-04, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 32.09 QUESTIONS OF ORDER.
   The Mayor or presiding officer shall decide all questions of order. The
Mayor shall decide whether any question submitted to Common Council for
adoption or rejection is decided in the affirmative or negative.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
§ 32.10 APPEAL FROM DECISION OF PRESIDING OFFICER.
   Any Common Council member may appeal any decision of the presiding officer
to the Common Council. The appeal shall be by motion duly made and seconded. A
majority vote as defined in I.C. 36-4-6-11 is necessary to overrule the
presiding officer.
(Ord. 1983-6, passed 4-14-1983)
§ 32.11 PETITION OR COMMENTS OF CITIZENS.
   Any citizen wishing to present a petition or make a comment during the
course of a meeting of the Common Council of the City of Greenfield, Indiana
shall stand, request recognition and once recognized, and approach the podium,
be sworn in by the City Attorney, state their name, spell their last name, and
give their address for the record, then present their petition or comment.
Presentation of petitions or comments shall not exceed three minutes in length
unless, by a motion made, seconded, and duly passed by a majority of the Common
Council of the City of Greenfield, Indiana to extend said time for a specified
duration.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 2-28-2024)
CHAPTER 33: NON-STATUTORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
City Tree Commission
   
33.01   Establishment of City Tree Commission
   
33.02   Duties and responsibilities
CITY TREE COMMISSION
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY TREE COMMISSION.
   The Board will be charged with the responsibilities of the city’s Tree
Ordinance,
Chapter 97.
(Ord. 2001-23, passed 12-13-2001)
§ 33.02 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel, and develop, update, and administer an annual written plan for the
care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of
trees and shrubs in parks, along the streets and in other public areas. Such a
plan will be presented annually to the Common Council and upon its acceptance
and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the
city for that year.
   (B)   The Board, when requested by Common Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report, and make recommendations upon any special
matter or question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 2001-23, passed 12-13-2001)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Chain of command
   
34.03   Commanding officers; authority
   
34.04   Superior officers
   
34.05   Police Department Standard Operating Procedures Manual adopted by
reference
Duties of Officers
   
34.20   Chief of Police
   
34.21   Deputy Chief considered Assistant Chief
   
34.22   Captains considered division commanders
   
34.23   Lieutenants considered commanding officers
   
34.24   Supervisory officers
Accident Reports
   
34.35   Cost for accident reports
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF. The office of Chief of Police and the person occupying that office at
the time, whether he or she is acting in a permanent or temporary capacity.
   CIVILIAN EMPLOYEE. An employee of the Police Department not sworn in as a
police officer.
   CONDUCT UNBECOMING AN OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   Use of profane language in public;
      (2)   Loss of temper and self-control;
      (3)   Discourteous treatment of a citizen or fellow law enforcement
officer;
      (4)   Loud, boisterous, vulgar, indecorous, clownish, or obtrusive
behavior in public;
      (5)   Repeating rumors or falsehoods concerning a fellow officer or
holding a fellow officer up to ridicule;
      (6)   Knowingly submitting a false report to the Police Department;
      (7)   Knowingly withholding information from the Police Department or any
court in which the officer is a witness; and
      (8)   Any other act or conduct which is unethical or tends to ridicule,
debase, disgrace, or degrade the officer or his or her department, or otherwise
create disrespect.
   GENERAL ORDER. A written order issued by the Chief, approved by the Board,
and applicable to the entire Police Department which expresses and establishes
a principle, policy, or procedure concerning a given subject and which is
effective permanently or until revoked by a subsequent order.
   OFF DUTY. The period during which an officer is not actively engaged in the
performance of his or her duties.
   OFFICER. Any employee sworn in as a police officer of the Police Department
of the city.
   ON DUTY. The period when an officer is actively engaged in the performance
of his or her duties either on a regular tour of duty or when on duty during
and by reason of emergency.
   RANKING OFFICER. The officer on the scene with the highest rank assuming
that he or she is not incapacitated at the time and thereby unable to assume
leadership. If officers of equal rank are present, then the one with the most
seniority shall be the RANKING OFFICER. This shall not prevent the Chief from
specifically delegating responsibility for command of a detail or situation to
an officer regardless of his or her seniority status and, in which event, the
delegated officer shall be considered the RANKING OFFICER.
   SHIFT. A tour of duty to which an officer may be assigned, the hours of
which shall be established, from time to time, by the Chief.
   SICK LEAVE. The period during which an officer is excused from active duty
and reporting by reason of illness or injury.
   SPECIAL DUTY. The service which the officer is assigned to perform which is
not regular routine duty.
   SPECIAL ORDER. A written order issued by the Chief applicable to the entire
Department, shifts, or individuals of the Department which establishes a
temporary principle, policy, or procedure concerning a given subject for a
stated period of time. When the effective period of the special order is not
stated, it becomes inoperative with the passing of the incident.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 1-24-1974; Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-26-1995; Ord. 2006-8,
passed 5-25-2006)
§ 34.02 CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   The chain of command with respect to the Police Department shall be:
   (A)   Mayor;
   (B)   Chief of Police;
   (C)   Deputy Chief;
   (D)   Captains;
   (E)   Lieutenants;
   (F)   Sergeants; and
   (G)   Corporals.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 1-24-1974; Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-26-1995)
§ 34.03 COMMANDING OFFICERS; AUTHORITY.
   Commanding officers shall have the authority to temporarily suspend from
duty any officer for violation of any of the rules or regulations of the Police
Department.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 1-24-1974)
§ 34.04 SUPERIOR OFFICERS.
   (A)   Superior officers, when coming in contact with men/women under their
command, shall set examples of sobriety, discipline, energy, activity,
neatness, accuracy, thoroughness, courage, moderation, and dignity, and shall
not indulge in unofficer-like familiarity with them.
   (B)   Superior officers shall be held responsible for all orders given by
them to their subordinates.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 1-24-1974; Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-26-1995)
§ 34.05 POLICE DEPARTMENT STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES MANUAL ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.
   The City Police Department Standard Operating Procedures Manual, as approved
by the Board of Public Works and Safety, and all subsequent amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this chapter as if set
out in its entirety.
(Ord. 2006-8, passed 5-25-2006)
DUTIES OF OFFICERS
§ 34.20 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be the commanding officer of the entire
Department, subject to the laws of the United States, to the laws of the state,
to the ordinances of the city, and to the rules and regulations of the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   The Chief is delegated, by the Board of Public Works and Safety, the
responsibility to administer the police function of the city through his or her
Department, consistent with the policies of the Board, through the issuance of
orders, directions, and instructions to the officers of the Department, and to
utilize both efficiency of manpower and equipment of the Department to the best
of his or her ability.
   (C)   Officers of the Department shall obey such orders, directions, and
instructions of the Chief to the best of their ability.
   (D)   The Chief shall have the custody and control of all books, records,
machines, tools, implements, apparatus, or equipment of any kind necessary for
use in the Department and of all public property pertaining to and connected
therewith or belonging thereto, including all property confiscated by the
Department. The Chief may call on officers of the Department to assist in this
responsibility or may delegate certain of the responsibilities to the
individual officers of the Department.
   (E)   The Chief shall have the power to temporarily suspend any police
officer or civilian employee of the Department from duty for violations of
rules and regulations of the Board pending investigation and the filing of
charges of such challenged violation with the Board for a period not to exceed
five days.
   (F)   The Chief shall issue departmental policies and procedures in writing
and shall issue special orders, from time to time, under circumstances or
conditions requiring the proper government of the Department for protection and
maintenance of public order.
   (G)   Failure or refusal of any member of the Department to comply with such
legal orders, directives, policies, and procedures from the Chief shall
constitute neglect or disobedience of orders. He or she shall avoid injury,
degradation, or discredit to subordinates in the presence of others whenever
possible. Subordinates shall show him or her proper respect and shall carry out
orders and directions of the Chief.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 1-24-1974; Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-26-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of police officers, see I.C. 36-8-3-6
§ 34.21 DEPUTY CHIEF CONSIDERED ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   A Deputy Chief shall be considered as the Assistant Chief of the Police
Department and, in the absence of the Chief, shall have the authority to act
and direct in the name of the Chief. He or she shall be held responsible for
the operation of the division, function, or activity to which he or she is
assigned. All orders or directions issued by him or her shall be in conformity
with policies of the Department and legal requirements. He or she shall avoid
injury, degradation, or discredit to subordinates in the presence of others
whenever possible. Subordinates shall show him or her proper respect and shall
carry out orders and directions from him or her.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 1-24-1974; Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-26-1995)
§ 34.22 CAPTAINS CONSIDERED DIVISION COMMANDERS.
   Captains shall be considered commanding officers and they shall each be held
responsible for the operation of the division, function, or activity to which
they are assigned. All orders or directions issued by them shall be in
conformity with policies of the Police Department and legal requirements. They
shall avoid injury, degradation, or discredit to subordinates in the presence
of others whenever possible. Subordinates shall show them proper respect and
shall carry out orders and directions from them. They shall report all
irregularities or disciplinary problems to the Chief or Deputy Chief.
§ 34.23 LIEUTENANTS CONSIDERED COMMANDING OFFICERS.
   Lieutenants shall be considered commanding officers of the Police Department
and they shall each be held responsible for the operation of the division,
function, or activity to which they are assigned. All orders or directions
issued by them shall be in conformity with policies of the Department and legal
requirements. They shall avoid injury, degradation, or discredit to
subordinates in the presence of others whenever possible. Subordinates shall
show them proper respect and shall carry out orders and directions from them.
They shall report all irregularities or disciplinary problems to the Chief or
Assistant Chief.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 1-24-1974; Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-26-1995)
§ 34.24 SUPERVISORY OFFICERS.
   Sergeants, detective sergeants, and corporals shall be considered
supervisory ranks, and they shall be responsible for carrying out the
directions and commands of their superiors and assisting their subordinates in
carrying out duties assigned to them. They shall report all irregularities or
disciplinary problems to their commanding officers. They shall avoid injury,
degradation, or discredit to subordinates in the presence of others whenever
possible. Subordinates shall show them proper respect, and shall carry out
orders and directions from them.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 1-24-1974; Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-26-1995)
ACCIDENT REPORTS
§ 34.35 COST FOR ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   For each copy of an accident report which is supplied by the Police
Department, the city shall charge a fee of $6, which shall be deposited in the
Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund.
(Ord. 2002-21, passed 7-11-2002)
CHAPTER 35: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   (Reserved)
   
35.03   (Reserved)
   
35.04   Equipment
   
35.05   Membership
   
35.06   (Reserved)
   
35.07   Insurance
   
35.08   (Reserved)
   
35.09   Suspension or dismissal
   
35.10   Suspension or dismissal
   
35.11   Police powers of members of the Fire Department
   
35.12   Police to assist Fire Department
   
35.13   Suspension or dismissal
   
35.14   Suspension or dismissal
   
35.15   Fire Department Training Fund
Emergency Medical Services
   
35.30   Emergency ambulance service part of Fire Department
   
35.31   Responsibility of Board of Public Works and Safety relating to
emergency medical services
   
35.32   Fees for emergency services
   
35.33   Fees for hazardous material services
   
35.34   Fees for re-inspection of Fire Code violations
   
35.35   Firewatch; fees for firewatch
Cross-reference:
   Bereavement leave, see §
36.142
   Fire prevention, see
Chapter 91
   Firefighters’ Pension Board of Trustees, see
Chapter 31
   Vacation leave, see §
36.141
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPUTY FIRE CHIEF. The Deputy Fire Chief appointed by the Fire Chief in
accordance with this subchapter.
   EMS APPARATUS. An ambulance or other vehicle utilized for the provision of
EMS services belonging to the City Division of Emergency Medical Services.
   EMS EQUIPMENT. All equipment of the Emergency Medical Services division of
the Fire Department as required to provide life saving FIRE APPARATUS; means
fire engine, fire rescue unit, heavy rescue unit, hazardous material unit, or
command/control vehicle.
   FIRE CHIEF. The chief officer of the City Fire Department.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Greenfield Fire Territory that renders fire prevention
and protection services to the Greenfield Fire Territory, pursuant to I.C. 36-
8-17-2.
   FIRE EQUIPMENT. All equipment utilized by members of the Fire Department as
may be required, from time to time, to maintain its efficiency and enable it to
effectively protect life and property from fire.
   FIRE PREVENTION CHIEF. The Fire Prevention Chief of any Fire Bureau created
within the Greenfield Fire Territory.
   FIREWATCH. A person or persons who are assigned to monitor an area for
watching fires or the outbreak of fires in accordance with this Chapter and
Chapter 91.
   GREENFIELD FIRE TERRITORY. The Fire Territory established by the city and
Center Township.
   MEMBERS. Members of the Fire Department whether volunteer, part-time, or
full-time.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A written notice issued by the City Fire Department
usually in the form of an inspection report listing violation(s).
§ 35.02 (RESERVED).
§ 35.03 (RESERVED).
§ 35.04 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall be equipped with such fire apparatus, fire
equipment, EMS apparatus, and EMS equipment as may be required, from time to
time, to maintain its efficiency and enable it to effectively protect life and
property from fire.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall make recommendations to the Common Council
regarding the fire apparatus, fire equipment, EMS apparatus, and EMS equipment
required by the Fire Department to enable it to effectively protect life and
property from fire. Upon the Board’s approval of any or all of the Fire Chief’s
recommendations, the Fire Department shall be authorized to purchase such
approved fire apparatus, fire equipment, EMS equipment, and EMS apparatus in
such manner as may be designated by the Common Council.
   (C)   All fire apparatus, fire equipment, EMS apparatus, and EMS equipment
shall be safely and conveniently stored in such places as are deemed by the
Fire Chief to allow for efficient and effective responses to fires and other
emergency situations.
   (D)   Suitable arrangements shall be provided for notifying all members of
the Fire Department so that they may promptly respond to fires and emergency
situations.
   (E)   No person shall use any fire apparatus, fire equipment, EMS apparatus,
or EMS equipment for any private purpose.
   (F)   Unless authorized by the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s designee, no
person shall enter any place where any fire apparatus, fire equipment, EMS
apparatus, or EMS equipment are stored nor shall any person handle any fire
apparatus, fire equipment, EMS apparatus, or EMS equipment belonging to the
Fire Department.
   (G)   The Board is authorized to enter into agreements or contracts with
nearby jurisdictions to provide the residents of such nearby jurisdictions with
fire protection or to establish a mutual aid system.
   (H)   Unless otherwise approved by the Mayor, no fire apparatus, fire
equipment, EMS apparatus, or EMS equipment shall be permitted to leave the
city, except in compliance with the terms of a duly authorized mutual aid
agreement. The Fire Chief is authorized to assign fire apparatus, fire
equipment, EMS apparatus, and EMS equipment to respond to calls for outside
aid, in accordance with division (G) above, only when the absence of such
equipment will not jeopardize protection in the designated fire district.
   (I)   No person except for such persons authorized by the Fire Chief shall
ride on fire vehicles or emergency vehicles on any emergency run.
(Prior Code, § 23.42) (Ord. 1960-6, passed 4-6-1960; Ord. 1977-4, passed 4-14-
1977; Ord. 2001-27, passed 1-10-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Mutual aid agreements, see
TSO Table IV
§ 35.05 MEMBERSHIP.
   The membership of the Fire Department shall consist of at least 49 members
and not more than 90 members as may be appointed by the Fire Chief with
approval of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 23.43) (Ord. 1960-6, passed 4-6-1960; Ord. 1977-4, passed 4-14-
1977; Ord. 2001-27, passed 1-10-2002)
§ 35.06 (RESERVED).
§ 35.07 INSURANCE.
   The members of the Fire Department shall be covered by insurance as
prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 23.45) (Ord. 1960-6, passed 4-6-1960; Ord. 1977-4, passed 4-14-
1977)
Statutory reference:
   Firefighter’s Insurance Fund, see I.C. 36-8-3-14
§ 35.08 (RESERVED).
§ 35.09 (RESERVED).
§ 35.10 (RESERVED).
§ 35.11 POLICE POWERS OF MEMBERS OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   All regularly appointed members of the Fire Department are vested with the
necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this code, the Fire Prevention Ordinance under Chapter 91, and all other
regulations pertaining to the operation of the Fire Department or to fire
prevention.
(Prior Code, § 23.49) (Ord. 1960-6, passed 4-6-1960; Ord. 1977-4, passed 4-14-
1977)
Statutory reference:
   Special duty firefighters, see I.C. 36-8-3-7
§ 35.12 POLICE TO ASSIST FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   It is made the special duty of the Chief of Police or other peace officers
who may be on duty and available for fire duty to respond to all fire alarms
and assist the Fire Department in the protection of life and property, in
regulating traffic, maintaining order, and in enforcing observance of all
sections of this code, the Fire Prevention Ordinance under Chapter 91, and all
other regulations pertaining to the operation of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 23.50) (Ord. 1960-6, passed 4-6-1960; Ord. 1977-4, passed 4-14-
1977)
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention,
Chapter 91
§ 35.13 (RESERVED).
§ 35.14 (RESERVED).
§ 35.15 FIRE DEPARTMENT TRAINING FUND.
   There is hereby established in the City Fire Department a nonreverting fund
called the City Fire Department Training Fund, subject to the following terms
and conditions.
   (A)   Monies received from any training programs shall be deposited into the
fund and shall be used for the purchase of training materials, equipment, and
for paying the instructors.
   (B)   The monies in the fund shall be subject to the same appropriation
process as other city funds that are funded from the general fund.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 8-26-2015)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
§ 35.30 EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE PART OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Emergency Medical Services is a division of the Fire Department. This
division shall be subject to all rules, regulations, and duties promulgated by
the Fire Chief, from time to time. This division shall be designated as the
“Greenfield Emergency Medical Services”.
(Ord. 1970-46, passed 12-29-1970)
§ 35.31 RESPONSIBILITY OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY RELATING TO
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The Board is hereby directed and authorized to provide for and
maintain an ambulance service for the efficient and effective removal of
injured and needy persons, which service may include, but shall not be limited
to, the ownership by the city of an emergency ambulance or mobile first aid
unit, the purchase of a new unit or units or sale and exchange of any such unit
or units, the maintenance and repair of same, and the employment and training
of personnel for the operation of same.
   (B)   The Board is further directed and authorized to promulgate
administrative procedures and regulations for the operation of an emergency
ambulance service. Common Council shall consider and approve such
administrative procedures and regulations as promulgated by the Board.
§ 35.32 FEES FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 2019, the Fire Department shall charge $1,500 per
transported patient for Basic Life Support Services, $1,700 per transported
patient for Level 1 Advanced Life Support Services, $2,000 per transported
patient for Level 2 Advanced Life Support Services, and $425 for Non-Transport
Advanced Life Support Services, such as Advanced Life Support Signed Refusal of
Transport where medications have been used or for a patient treated in cardiac
arrest but not transported. In addition to the above, a separate mileage charge
of $25 per loaded mile shall be charged for the service provided by the Fire
Department. These fees include the cost of supplies or medications used or
furnished on behalf of the patient. There shall be a 60% discount given to any
patient who receives no benefit from Medicaid, Medicare, or private insurance
companies. In addition to the above charges, an additional charge of $200 shall
be charged for such services being rendered to any person who is not a resident
of the Fire Territory or a resident of a jurisdiction within which the Fire
Territory has entered into a mutual aid agreement.
   (B)   The city shall also charge a $1,000 fee for motor vehicle extrication
resulting from a motor vehicle collision.
   (C)   The Fire Department shall charge any not-for-profit unit requesting
Intercept ALS Services, the sum of $250, which shall be payable by the
requesting unit no later than 30 days after issuance of an invoice with any
remaining unpaid balance thereafter to accrue interest at the rate of 1% per
month until paid in full. For any for-profit unit requesting manpower for EMS
Services, the charge shall be $75 per man hour, which charge shall be paid no
later than 30 days after the issuance of an invoice and any remaining unpaid
balance thereafter shall accrue interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid
in full. These rates may be increased, from time to time, without amendment of
this section so as to adjust as the allowances set by Medicare increase.
(Ord. 1982-21, passed 1-13-1983; Ord. 1983-4, passed 3-31-1983; Ord. 1983-19,
passed 9-22-1983; Ord. 1998-17, passed 8-27-1998; Ord. 2000-19, passed 12-14-
2000; Ord. 2002-20, passed 7-11-2002; Ord. 2008-6, passed 3-12-2008; Ord. 2008-
32, passed 10-22-2008; Ord. 2012-13, passed 11-14-2012)
§ 35.33 FEES FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall charge for all incidents involving the
release or imminent uncontrolled release of hazardous materials, as defined in
I.C. 13-11-2-96 et seq. The responsible party or parties of a hazardous
materials emergency shall pay the following fees:
 
Initial Response
Command/control vehicle $100
Fire engine             $250
Fire rescue unit        $250
Hazardous material unit $250
Heavy rescue unit       $250
 
 
Each Hour or Fraction Thereafter
Command/control vehicle $50
Fire engine             $150
Fire rescue unit        $150
Hazardous material unit $150
Heavy rescue unit       $150
 
   (B)   In addition, the party or parties responsible for the dispatch of Fire
Department apparatus under this division (B) shall pay for materials used and
equipment replacement or repairs, if any, at the cost incurred by the Fire
Department for said materials or replacement or repairs.
   (C)   All fees received pursuant to this section shall be deposited into the
City Fire Department Hazardous Material Nonreverting Fund.
(Ord. 2015-8, passed 8-26-2015)
§ 35.34 FEES FOR RE-INSPECTION OF FIRE CODE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All fire code violations will be documented on a notice of violation
and transmitted to violators following the discovery of such fire code
violations by the Fire Department. Violators shall have not more than 30 days
from the date of a notice of violation to remedy the violations described
therein; provided however, in the interest of public health, safety, and
welfare, the Fire Department may, in its sole discretion, determine that based
upon the severity of a fire code violation, such lesser time for compliance is
required. Upon complying with the Fire Department’s notice of violation, a
violator shall certify compliance through the Fire Department’s electronic
platform. If a violator fails to demonstrate compliance within the time-period
set forth within a notice of violation, the Fire Department shall conduct a
reinspection of the violator’s premises to verify compliance with the fire
code.
   (B)   The fees for inspections and reinspections of any ongoing fire code
violation are as follows:
 
First reinspection                      $0
Second reinspection                     $75
Third reinspection                      $150
Fourth and any reinspection, thereafter $300
 
§ 35.35 FIREWATCH; FEES FOR FIREWATCH.
   (A)   Any firewatch conducted in the Greenfield Fire Territory must include
only state certified firefighters. Any firefighter taking part in a firewatch
within the Greenfield Fire Territory who is not a member of the Greenfield Fire
Territory must provide such certification to the Greenfield Fire Territory
prior to participating in any firewatch.
   (B)   Any firewatch conducted in the Greenfield Fire Territory shall have
one firefighter for every 250 people of occupant load.
   (C)   The per firefighter rates for any firewatch are as follows:
 
$35/hour
$50/hour on federally recognized holidays
 
   (D)   All fees required hereunder shall be paid directly to the firefighter.
CHAPTER 36: POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL
Section
Policy Administration
   
36.001   Introduction and purpose
   
36.002   Definitions
   
36.003   Organization and responsibility
   
36.004   Policy manual administration
   
36.005   Equal employment opportunity
   
36.006   Discrimination; sexual harassment; verbal harassment; physical
harassment
   
36.007   Harassment/discrimination grievance procedures
   
36.008   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
   
36.009   Employment-at-will
   
36.010   Nepotism
   
36.011   Employer-employee relations
   
36.012   Alcohol and drug free workplace
   
36.013   Safety-sensitive positions
   
36.014   Management rights
Employment
   
36.030   Definitions
   
36.031   Classification plan
   
36.032   Minimum position qualifications
   
36.033   Vacancies and appointments
   
36.034   Employment orientation
   
36.035   Probationary period
   
36.036   Performance evaluations
   
36.037   Employee file
   
36.038   Transfer and promotion
   
36.039   Demotion
   
36.040   Resignation; separation
   
36.041   Training
Employee Behavior/Conduct
   
36.055   Definitions
   
36.056   Ethics; conflict of interest
   
36.057   Conflict of interest - permitting
   
36.058   Gifts
   
36.059   Confidential information
   
36.060   Use of public property
   
36.061   Notice of alleged ethics non-compliance
   
36.062   Ethical standards
   
36.063   Ethical standards - honesty/integrity
   
36.064   Ethical standards - respect/civility
   
36.065   Ethical standards- accountability/responsibility
   
36.066   Ethical standards - fairness/justice
   
36.067   Grooming
   
36.068   Clothing/attire
   
36.069   Employee fitness for duty
   
36.070   Behavior
   
36.071   Late arrival
   
36.072   Outside employment
   
36.073   Progressive discipline
   
36.074   Employee appeal
   
36.075   Grievance procedure
General Policies
   
36.090   Definitions
   
36.091   Travel and expense reimbursement
   
36.092   Health/safety
   
36.093   Lactation policy
   
36.094   Safety data sheets
   
36.095   Blood-borne pathogens
   
36.096   HIPAA privacy rule
   
36.097   Smoking policy
   
36.098   Tools, equipment, and vehicles
   
36.099   Take home vehicles
   
36.100   Solicitation and distribution
   
36.101   Social media
   
36.102   Hours of work
   
36.103   Weather/civil emergencies
   
36.104   Computers, internet and email, cellular phones
   
36.105   Handling citizens’ questions and complaints
   
36.106   Political activity
Wages and Hours
   
36.120   Payroll
   
36.121   Direct deposit
   
36.122   Overtime
   
36.123   Compensatory time
   
36.124   Emergency Call Out
   
36.125   Flextime
   
36.126   Pension plan
   
36.127   Garnishments
Holidays, Vacations, Leaves
   
36.140   Holidays
   
36.141   Vacation leave
   
36.142   Bereavement leave
   
36.143   Court leave
   
36.144   Personal time off (PTO)
   
36.145   Military or reserve service
   
36.146   Leave of absence
   
36.147   Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
Insurance Coverage
   
36.160   Group health insurance
   
36.161   Life insurance
   
36.162   Deferred compensation plan
   
36.163   Workers’s compensation
Cross-reference:
   Internal control standards and materiality threshold, see
Chapter 37
POLICY ADMINISTRATION
§ 36.001 INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy manual is to provide a consistent,
systematic, and organized approach to the establishment, implementation, and
administration of the city’s personnel policies. It is written, adopted, and
interpreted exclusively by the executive officer, and his or her designees, and
is not subject to modification, change, or contrary interpretation by any
employee or employee representative organization, except as may otherwise be
specifically authorized and recognized by the laws and/or constitutions of the
state and United States.
   (B)   This policy manual is to be used to assist and guide personnel in the
day-to-day direction and performance of the general workforce, the result being
that a number of important and responsible goals may be achieved.
      (1)   First, by implementing uniform personnel policies that are applied
in as consistent and impartial a manner as is practicable, the goal is to
promote the best possible working relationships and highest morale among all
employees. This policy manual was created for employees not covered by any
other bargaining agreement. Furthermore, it is not intended to supersede or
overrule any state or federal rules and regulations governing the operation of
a department (the Police Department and Fire Department). It is, however, the
intent of this personnel policy manual to provide support, direction, and
procedures that will enable the city to practice fair and consistent daily
personnel administration.
      (2)   Second, by providing employees with fair and equal opportunities in
their recruitment and advancement, by evaluating their services on the basis of
merit and fitness, and by giving consideration to their needs and desires, the
goal is to provide an employment atmosphere that increases the cooperation and
productivity of the employees, together with the prospects for career
opportunities within the city and each office or department of city government.
      (3)   Third, by providing dependable and courteous services to the
residents of the city, the goal is to enhance the reputation and stature of the
city’s departments and offices within the community.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Capitalized terms that are not defined in this subchapter, shall have the
meaning assigned to them in Title I of this code.
   ADA. The Americans with Disabilities Act, as may be amended, repealed, or
replaced from time to time.
   AT-WILL EMPLOYMENT. The form of employment for any city employee, as
described in applicable state and federal case law, statutes, and regulations.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in such state and federal
case law, statutes, and regulations, for the purposes of this code, AT-WILL
EMPLOYMENT means that any employee may voluntarily leave employment or may be
terminated from their employment by the city at any time with or without cause.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. As the context provides, the appointed official selected to
administer any department of the city.
   DIRECT THREAT. A significant risk to the health or safety of others that
cannot be eliminated by reasonable accommodation. Benefits provided to disabled
individuals who are qualified to perform the work must be consistent with the
benefits provided to other employees. Any individual who believes he or she has
received treatment inconsistent with the policies set forth above, or any other
requirement of ADA, may file a complaint with the executive officer or his or
her designee.
   DISCRIMINATION. Includes, but is not limited to, any or all of the following
actions:
      (1)   Hiring based upon race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age,
marital status, sexual orientation, or non-job-related handicaps;
      (2)   Promotions based upon race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
age, marital status, sexual orientation, or non-job-related handicaps;
      (3)   Pay increases based upon race, color, religion, national origin,
sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, or non-job-related handicaps;
      (4)   Conduct that denigrates or shows hostility or aversion towards an
individual because of his or her race, color, religion, national origin, sexual
orientation, gender, age, or disability;
      (5)   Making derogatory ethnic or racial statements, or belittling one’s
religion or religious practices;
      (6)   Perpetuating stereotypes about one’s age, gender, and the like;
      (7)   Refusing to assist an employee or victim/patient because of their
race, gender, and the like; and
      (8)   Ridiculing the sexual orientation of an employee or their
associates.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Parents, spouses, or stepparents; children, including
stepchildren; siblings (including half-siblings), including stepsiblings;
nieces; nephews; aunts; uncles; grandparents; grandchildren; grand-
stepchildren; mothers-in-law; fathers-in-law; daughters-in-law; sons-in-law;
other corresponding in-laws; or other members of the employee’s household
whether blood-relative or not.
   PHYSICAL HARASSMENT. To knowingly and intentionally cause or inflict
physical pain to a fellow employee.
   POLICY MANUAL. Collectively, the policies and procedures set forth under
this chapter which shall be entitled the “City of Greenfield Policy and
Procedure Manual”.
   SAFETY SENSITIVE POSITION. Any position required to operate a motor vehicle
having a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of 26,000 pounds, or any
position requiring the operation of a motor vehicle used to transport hazardous
materials in a quantity that requires the vehicle to be placarded regardless of
its size.
   SEXUAL HARASSMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, unwanted, uninvited, or
offensive touching; displaying sexually suggestive or explicit material,
pictures, or cartoons; telling sexually suggestive or explicit stories or
jokes; making sexually suggestive or explicit gestures, unwelcome sexual
advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a
sexual nature where:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is either an expressed or implied term
or condition of employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as a basis for
an employment decision affecting the harassed person; and/or
      (3)   The purpose or the effect of such conduct is to interfere with the
affected individual’s job performance, or to create an intimidating, hostile,
or offensive work environment.
   VERBAL ABUSE. To disturb or persistently irritate through repeated attacks
on fellow employees and/or supervisors so as to disrupt their work or
reputations.
§ 36.003 ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The executive officer is responsible for administration of city
business.
   (B)   The city is organized into various departments, or offices, to ensure
adequate expertise, specialization, and efficient functioning. These
departments, or offices, function under the administrative guidance and control
of the department heads, who are responsible for the day-to-day management and
operation of the city.
   (C)   Department heads are appointed by the executive officer and reviewed
by the Board, as required, within each city department or office, to provide
proper control and supervision of certain internal and department functions.
   (D)   The employees in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office work at his or her
pleasure. These employees can be separated without cause.
   (E)   Each employee’s particular duties, obligations, and areas of
responsibility are defined in his or her position description and/or by
assignment or directive of any supervisor. Employees are primarily responsible
to their immediate supervisor for completion of specific work assignments and
the quality, quantity, and timeliness of the work performed.
   (F)   The rights, authorities, powers, and responsibilities of employees at
all levels, with respect to the policies in this policy manual, are more
clearly delineated in the specific subject areas. However, in general, the
executive officer, the Board, and the Common Council are charged with the
development, promulgation, and adoption of the provisions of this policy
manual. The various management and supervisory personnel are charged with
applying, interpreting, enforcing, and generally ensuring compliance with the
provisions of this policy manual. It is the obligation, and a requirement as a
condition of employment, for each individual person employed by the city to
comply in every respect with the provisions of this policy manual, and any
related procedures and work rules, and to perform their assigned duties in a
responsible manner creditable to the city. As such, all employees are expected
to become knowledgeable about its contents and abide by the policies set forth
herein. Any questions, concerns, or lack of understanding about a particular
provision of this policy manual should be promptly discussed with one’s
department head.
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer has adopted this policy manual into the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer for this particular branch of city government.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.004 POLICY MANUAL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   To implement this policy manual and to oversee its administration on a
day-to-day basis, the following procedures will be taken.
      (1)   A copy of this policy manual will be given to all current
employees, and to all new employees, subsequent to its adoption.
      (2)   This policy manual will also be made available to part-time and
temporary employees.
   (B)   The contents of this policy manual are subject to change without
notice at the discretion of the city. Only the executive officer, the Board,
and Common Council will have the authority to make revisions of policies
contained herein for their areas of responsibility.
   (C)   Any changes in the policy manual shall in no way alter the employment-
at-will policy or create a binding contract between the city and any employee.
   (D)   Employees are encouraged to make suggestions for improvements in
personnel policies and practices. Suggestions should be directed to the
department head, in writing, together with an explanation as to how such a
change could benefit the city, the department, and/or the public.
   (E)   The city will undertake to accomplish a review of the policy manual at
12-month intervals, or as may be indicated by law or change in characteristics
of the city workforce.
   (F)   The department heads maintain the ultimate right to manage their
workforces, consistent with the policies set forth in this policy manual and
all applicable state and federal laws. The department heads’ rights include,
but are not limited to, determining methods and procedures, recommending:
number of workforce, assignment of duties, hours of employment, compensation of
personnel, hiring, disciplining, discharging, promoting and transferring
employees, and laying off employees for lack of work, lack of funds, or due to
job abolishment.
   (G)   The policies of this policy manual supersede all previous city
policies, procedures, orders, or ordinances, whether written or unwritten, on
subjects covered or referred to herein. The respective policy manuals of the
Police Department and Fire Departments will supersede this policy manual in
situations where the requirements set forth in the Police Department policy
manual or the Fire Department policy manual are more restrictive than the
corresponding requirements set forth in this policy manual. Where the Police
Department policy manual or the Fire Department policy manual is silent on a
requirement, the requirements of this manual shall govern the conduct of the
employees of the Police Department and Fire Department.
   (H)   In the event that any section of this policy manual, or amendment or
revisions thereto, is held to be unenforceable, contrary to law, or otherwise
restrained from its full force and effect by a court or other tribunal of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining section(s) of this policy manual, to the
extent that they remain unaffected by such declaration restraint, shall
continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.005 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   It is the policy of the city that all personnel actions, such as hires,
rates of compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, recalls, city-
supported training, and social or recreational programs, shall be administered
without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital
status, sexual orientation, or non-job-related handicap. Therefore, all such
personnel actions should be consistently administered to all employees without
compromise, and thus should be based on the results achieved on the job, as
well as objective job-relatedness in both job qualifications and performance
standards.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.006 DISCRIMINATION; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; VERBAL HARASSMENT; PHYSICAL
HARASSMENT.
   (A)   All employees should be able to work in an atmosphere free from all
forms of employment discrimination, including physical harassment, verbal
harassment, and sexual harassment. The city’s policy is to forbid harassment
and any type of discrimination. This policy extends to every level of city
operations. Accordingly, discrimination and harassment, whether by a fellow
employee, supervisor, or executive officer, will not be tolerated. Activities
of this nature serve no legitimate purpose, have a disruptive effect on an
employee’s ability to perform, and undermine the integrity of the employment
relationship.
   (B)   The city takes allegations of discrimination, physical harassment,
verbal harassment, and sexual harassment very seriously. Any employee who
believes that he or she is a victim of discrimination, verbal harassment,
physical harassment, and/or sexual harassment should immediately bring the
matter to the attention of his or her supervisor, or in the case where the
supervisor has undertaken actions that constitute discrimination, physical
harassment, verbal harassment, or sexual harassment, such employee shall
contact the executive officer or his or her designee. All such matters will be
treated confidentially, and with the utmost caution and discretion. The process
for filing a harassment or discrimination charge against an official or
employee of the city is set forth under §
36.007.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a charge of discrimination or harassment, the city
will actively investigate all complaints of discrimination, verbal harassment,
physical harassment, and sexual harassment, and if it is determined after
conducting an investigation that discrimination, verbal harassment, physical
harassment, or sexual harassment has occurred, the executive officer and/or
Board will take appropriate disciplinary action against the employee or
official determined to be in violation of this policy manual, up to and
including terminating the term or employment of the official or employee
determined to be in violation of the policy manual.
§ 36.007 HARASSMENT/DISCRIMINATION GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.
   It is helpful for the victim to inform the harasser directly that the
conduct is unwelcome and must stop. If an employee desires to file a harassment
or discrimination charge against anyone in the city, the following procedures
shall be followed.
   (A)   Any individual who believes that he or she has been harassed or
discriminated against must report this information to the Mayor, or his or her
designee, as soon as possible.
   (B)   Upon notification, the Mayor/designee will conduct a thorough
investigation of the alleged incident. The investigation will consist of the
following:
      (1)   A written statement from the victim, along with an interview;
      (2)   Interviewing all of the witnesses to the alleged violation; and
      (3)   Interviewing the alleged violator.
   (C)   A written analysis and decision will be provided to the victim,
alleged violator, Board, and Mayor.
   (D)   The Board shall conduct a hearing to render a final decision.
      (1)   The Board will meet within two weeks of the initial claim.
      (2)   The victim and the alleged violator will have the opportunity to
make a statement and provide the Board with additional information if
necessary.
      (3)   The Board will render a final disposition at the closing of the
hearing.
      (4)   The Board’s decision will be carried out immediately.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.008 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA).
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that qualified individuals with
disabilities are not to be excluded from participation in or benefit from its
services, programs, or activities. It is the policy of the city not to
discriminate against a qualified individual with a disability in job
application procedures; the hiring, advancement, or discharge of employees;
employee compensation; job training; and other terms, conditions, and
privileges of employment. It is the intent of the city to comply with all
applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
   (B)   The city will reasonably accommodate persons with disabilities on a
case-by-case basis, which may include making facilities readily accessible to
individuals with disabilities, restructuring jobs, modifying work schedules
and/or equipment, or similar accommodations.
   (C)   Employees who desire to request an accommodation shall inform the
executive officer or his or her designee of their request. Upon making any
request for an accommodation, the requesting employee shall provide pertinent
medical information supporting his or her request. Employees and the
supervisors should contact the executive officer or his or her designee for
assistance when an accommodation is necessary.
   (D)   Accommodations may not create an undue hardship for the city or other
employees. An individual who cannot be reasonably accommodated for a job,
without undue hardship, will not be selected for that position. The executive
officer and the City Attorney will make the determination of reasonable
accommodation.
   (E)   All employees are required to comply with safety standards. Applicants
who pose a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals in the
workplace, and where the threat cannot be eliminated by reasonable
accommodation, will not be hired or retained. Current employees who pose a
direct threat to the health or safety of the other individuals in the workplace
will be placed on the appropriate leave.
   (F)   Further, disabled individuals cannot pose a direct threat to the
safety of themselves or others.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.009 EMPLOYMENT-AT-WILL.
   (A)   The policy for employment with the city is that public employment is
at-will employment. Any amendment of modification to this policy will be
effective only if set forth in writing and signed by both the employee and the
executive officer or his or her designee.
   (B)   There are exceptions to the at-will employment that prevent wrongful
termination.
   (C)   The city’s at-will employment policy may not be modified by any
statements contained in this policy manual or any other employee materials,
including applications, memoranda, or other documents provided to applicants
and employees in connection with their employment. None of these documents,
whether single or combined, create an expressed or implied contract of
employment for a definite period, or an expressed or implied contract
concerning any terms or conditions of employment.
   (D)   Similarly, city policies and practices with respect to any matter
should not be considered as creating any contractual obligation on the city’s
part or as stating in any way that termination would occur only “for cause”.
Statements of specific grounds for termination set forth in this policy manual
or in any other city documents are examples only, not all-inclusive lists, and
are not intended to restrict the city’s right to terminate at-will employment.
   (E)   With respect to the termination of employees, the Police Department
and the Fire Department will be required to follow the standard operating
procedures governing their respective departments.
   (F)   Completion of a probationary period or conferral of regular status
does not change an employee’s status as an at-will employee, or in any way
restrict the city’s right to terminate the employee or change the terms or
conditions of employment.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.010 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   (1)   The city selects employees based on their job qualifications.
      (2)   To make sure this standard is always followed and to protect the
integrity of business operations, the city has certain restrictions on when and
where relatives of employees can be hired, and how related employees can work
together.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified by state law, immediate family members will
not be hired, promoted, or transferred to positions that:
      (1)   Place them in direct or indirect supervisory or managerial capacity
over an immediate family member;
      (2)   Allow them to directly or indirectly influence salary adjustments,
career progress, or other managerial activities involving an immediate family
member; and/or
      (3)   Require them to audit or review the work of another immediate
family member.
   (C)   If an elected official has an immediate family member working for the
city, that elected official shall abstain from any vote affecting such
employee’s pay wage, benefits, promotion, demotion, and the like.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, there is a
“grandfathering clause” for elected officials and employees elected or hired
prior to July 1, 2012, with family relationships that would otherwise be in
violation of the nepotism policy unless there is a break in the office holding
or in employment.
      (1)   Grandfathered employees may remain in their positions and they may
be promoted as long as such promotion is not in conflict with the nepotism
policies set forth under this section.
      (2)   Employees hired after July 1, 2012, whose immediate family member
is subsequently elected or hired in the direct line of supervision of such
employee, will have no possibility for promotion.
   (E)   State law requires that each elected official and department heard
must annually certify, in writing, subject to the penalties for perjury, that
the elected official and department head has not violated the nepotism law, and
submit the certification to the Clerk-Treasurer no later than December 31 of
each year.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.011 EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE RELATIONS.
   (A)   The city is committed to a mutually rewarding and direct relationship
with its employees. Thus, the city attempts to be receptive to constructive
suggestions, criticisms, and questions. Departmental meetings are regularly
scheduled to keep employees informed about items of interest and to discuss
issues of concern to employees. The city, as part of its commitment to
delivering the highest level of services to its residents and guests, expects
all employees:
      (1)   To treat all residents, guests, and suppliers as customers of all
city services;
      (2)   To represent the city in a positive and ethical manner;
      (3)   To perform assigned tasks in a safe and efficient manner;
      (4)   To attend work as required and to be punctual;
      (5)   To demonstrate a considerate, friendly, and constructive attitude
toward fellow employees, supervisors, and elected officials; and
      (6)   To follow the city and departmental policies and practices.
   (B)   The city retains the sole discretion to exercise all managerial
functions, including the following rights:
      (1)   To dismiss, assign, supervise, and discipline employees;
      (2)   To determine and change employee work schedules to meet the needs
of customers and guests of the city;
      (3)   To assign employees to other jobs within departments or into other
departments;
      (4)   To determine and adjust the employee number and specific
qualifications of the workforce;
      (5)   To assign duties to employees in accordance with the city’s needs
and requirements, and to carry out all ordinary administrative and management
functions; and
      (6)   To establish, change, and abolish policies, practices, roles, and
regulations as the city works to meet the needs of its constituents.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.012 ALCOHOL AND DRUG FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   (1)   It is the intent and obligation of the city to provide its
employees with an alcohol and drug free workplace.
      (2)   Employees are expected and required to report to work on time and
in appropriate mental and physical condition. It is unlawful to manufacture,
consume, possess, control, distribute, or sell alcohol or illegal drugs, in any
amount, at any time during working hours, or at any time while on city
premises. Alternatively, when the employee is performing his or her job
functions while off city premises will also constitute a violation of this
policy. Violation of this policy is strictly prohibited. Violation of this
policy may result in disciplinary procedures, up to and including termination.
      (3)   The city recognizes alcohol or drug dependency as an illness and a
major health problem. Additionally, the city also recognizes alcohol or drug
abuse as a potential health, safety, and security problem. The city understands
that some employees are hesitant or afraid to ask for help even when they are
aware that they may have a drug and/or alcohol problem. Employees needing help
in dealing with such problems will have one opportunity to ask for help without
repercussion. He or she should contact his or her department head, who in turn
will notify the executive officer’s office for guidance and direction. Every
effort will be made to confidentially refer the employee who needs and requests
such help to qualify for help. Conscientious efforts to seek such help may not
jeopardize any employee’s job.
   (B)   Pre-employment screening.
      (1)   Applicants for positions with the city, and former employees
seeking to be rehired, will be notified of the city’s drug and alcohol
screening policy at the time they apply.
      (2)   As a condition of employment, the candidate will be required to
pass a physical exam, including a drug and alcohol screening, at the
applicant’s expense, before becoming employed by the city. If the applicant is
hired, he or she will be reimbursed for the physical, including drug and
alcohol screening.
      (3)   The prospective employee will be denied employment if he or she
fails the drug or the alcohol screening, or refuses to submit to the drug and
alcohol screening.
§ 36.013 SAFETY-SENSITIVE POSITIONS.
   (A)   Testing policy.
      (1)   Any city employee in a safety-sensitive position will be required
to participate in city’s alcohol and drug testing program as mandated by the
Department of Transportation.
      (2)   The goals of the city’s alcohol and drug testing policy are to
ensure a drug and alcohol-free work environment, and to reduce and help
eliminate drug- and alcohol-related accidents, fatalities, and property damage.
      (3)   All applicants for safety-sensitive positions will be notified of
the city’s drug and alcohol use and testing policy at the time they apply. They
will be required to pass an alcohol and drug test before becoming employed by
the city.
      (4)   A CDL driver must maintain his or her CDL license status or he or
she will be terminated.
   (B)   Post-accident testing.
      (1)   Any employee in a safety-sensitive position must submit to a post-
accident drug and alcohol test as soon as possible after an accident, whenever:
         (a)   He or she receives a citation for a moving violation involving
the accident;
         (b)   Either a person is injured because of the accident and the
injuries require immediate medical treatment to the person away from the
accident scene; or
         (c)   One or more motor vehicles involved in the accident incur
disabling damage and must be transported away from the accident scene by a tow
truck or another vehicle. (A supervisor on the scene can ask the employee to
submit to drug and or alcohol test if the supervisor believes the situation
warrants one, even if there is no personal injury or disabling vehicle damage.)
Note: the police can also request that a test be done following an accident.
      (2)   An employee who is required to take a post-accident drug and
alcohol test will, at the city’s discretion, either be assigned to a position
that is not classified as a safety-sensitive position, or placed on non-
disciplinary suspension with pay while awaiting the post-accident test results.
      (3)   An employee who tests positive for drugs and/or alcohol, or who
refuses or fails to submit to a post-accident drug and alcohol test, will be
subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
   (C)   Random testing—safety sensitive position.
      (1)   The city is required to test employees in safety-sensitive
positions on a random basis, and all such tests will be unannounced. Every
employee in a safety-sensitive position will have an equal chance of being
selected every time the selection is conducted. Appropriate safeguards are also
present to ensure that the identity of the individual drivers cannot be
determined before or at the time of their selection. When an employee in a
safety-sensitive position is randomly selected to be tested, he or she will be
notified and instructed to report to the collection site immediately.
      (2)   An employee in a safety-sensitive position who tests positive for
drugs and/or alcohol, or who refuses or fails to submit to a random drug and/or
alcohol test, will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
discharge.
   (D)   Reasonable suspicion testing.
      (1)   Each employee in a safety-sensitive position is required to submit
to a drug and alcohol test whenever the city has reasonable suspicion to
believe that such employee has used drugs and/or alcohol in violation of DOT
regulations and/or this policy.
      (2)   Reasonable suspicion will exist when an employee’s appearance,
behavior, speech, or body odors indicate drug or alcohol use, or the withdrawal
effects of drugs. Such observations must be personally observed and documented
by at least one city official who has received training covering the physical,
behavioral, speech, and performance indicators of probable drug and alcohol
use. (If the trained individual is not available, the supervisor who observes
the impairment will use his or her best judgment to determine whether a test is
necessary.)
      (3)   An employee in a safety sensitive position who is required to
submit to a reasonable suspicion test will be escorted by his or her supervisor
to the appropriate specimen collection site for the drug and alcohol test.
      (4)   The supervisor will arrange the transportation of the employee home
at the completion of the test.
      (5)   An employee in a safety sensitive position who is required to take
a reasonable suspicion test will be considered by the city as unqualified to
work and placed on immediate suspension, without pay, pending the results of
the test. An employee in a safety sensitive position whose test results are
positive will not be reimbursed for the time of the suspension.
      (6)   An employee in a safety sensitive position who tests positive for
drugs and/or alcohol, or who refuses or fails to submit to a reasonable cause
drug and alcohol test, will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including discharge.
      (7)   If the employee in a safety sensitive position tests positive for
drugs or alcohol, he or she will be required to reimburse the city for the cost
of testing.
§ 36.014 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.
   (A)   The city reserves all rights afforded to it by virtue of its capacity
and authority under the Indiana Code, together with all such other rights of
management inherent by custom to such positions.
   (B)   The Common Council is responsible for affixing compensation and
benefits.
   (C)   Specifically, management rights include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The right to manage through the implementation, enforcement,
amendment, deletion, or revision of policies, procedures, rules, regulations,
and directives;
      (2)   The right to control the efficiency of operations through
organization or reorganization of work methods or procedures; layoff or recall
of employees due to operational or financial needs; and improvement in work
methods, equipment, machinery, and facilities;
      (3)   The right to direct the workforce through the determination of its
size and number; the number of shifts required; work schedules and hours of
employment determine when it is necessary for overtime or compensatory time,
and the amount, if required. The selection, retention, and assignment of all
employees based upon qualifications and departmental functions and duties, and
disciplining them as required, including suspension, termination, or reduction
in pay or position; and promoting and transferring employees as needed pursuant
to established policy;
      (4)   The right to effectively, efficiently, and economically manage the
department by determining acceptable standards of conduct and performance; the
methods, means, equipment, materials, and processes for the accomplishment of
work; the department’s goals, objectives, programs, services, and work to be
performed and to utilize personnel in a manner designed to meet these purposes
and improve productivity; and
      (5)   The right to determine when an emergency exists and implement
actions and assignments deemed advisable and necessary to effectively respond
to such emergencies. Each department head shall have the right and authority to
promulgate and enforce any reasonable work rules and operational policies and
procedures necessary to carry out the mission, goals, objectives, and functions
of their department.
   (D)   Department heads shall further have the right to create and enforce
any rules, regulations, and procedures necessary to implement the personnel
policies contained in this policy manual.
   (E)   Such rules, regulations, and procedures shall not conflict in any
manner with the policies of this policy manual, and are only applicable to the
particular department or office.
EMPLOYMENT
§ 36.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADA. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), as may be amended, replaced,
or replaced from time to time.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. The head of any department of the city.
   FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE. An employee who works an average of 1,820 hours per year
(35 hours per week), on a regularly scheduled basis.
   INPRS. The Indiana Public Retirement System.
   PART-TIME EMPLOYEE. An employee who works less than 1,820 hours per year, or
averages less than full-time as described above, but on a regularly scheduled
basis.
   TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE. An employee who works in a position that is of a non-
permanent nature (full-time, part-time), with a specified duration of time, not
to exceed ten months.
§ 36.031 CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   (A)   A position description based upon the duties and responsibilities of
positions has been created for each position within the city.
   (B)   The department head shall, as needed, review the duties and
responsibilities of positions to recommend to the executive officer or his or
her designee, for adjustments or revisions to the position descriptions.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.032 MINIMUM POSITION QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of employees to maintain the minimum
qualifications of their classifications as established by the executive
officer, his or her designee, or department head and/or mandated by applicable
state or federal laws or regulations. The department heads shall determine the
qualifications and requirements for each classification in the city.
   (B)   Employees failing to maintain the minimum qualifications of their
classification, or who do not comply with applicable state and federal laws and
regulations, may be subject to either termination of employment or a demotion.
   (C)   If a vacancy exists in a department for which the employee is
qualified, the employee may be recommended for the position by the department
head, with final approval granted by the executive officer, his or her
designee, or the Board.
   (D)   (1)   An employee who is terminated pursuant to this section may
reapply for employment, upon meeting the minimum requirements of the
classification. An employee who is demoted shall receive the rate of pay of new
classification, and may apply for his or her former position when a vacancy
becomes available and the employee can demonstrate his or her compliance with
the applicable state or federal laws and regulations pertaining to the
position.
      (2)   All employees are expected to make reasonable and diligent efforts
to maintain the qualifications of his or her current classification.
      (3)   The provisions of layoff and recall shall not be applicable to this
section.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.033 VACANCIES AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   In the event the executive officer, Board, and/or department head
determines that a vacancy exists, a notice of such position opening shall be
conspicuously posted for a period of five working days on employee bulletin
boards, or electronic bulletin boards, and emailed to each department head
throughout the city. The notice shall include the date of posting, as well as
the date the notice expires. The department heads should notify the executive
officer, or his or her designee, to coordinate all postings.
   (B)   All announcements will specify the position title, nature of the
position, required qualifications, and essential functions of the position,
compensation range, application deadline, and the place to file such
applications.
   (C)   Current employees desiring to be considered for the position must
complete a new application and apply for a posted vacancy, provided he or she
possesses the requisite minimum qualifications and is not a probationary
employee. Criteria used in evaluating an applicant’s qualifications may include
such considerations as evaluations, aptitude, attendance records, education,
training, prior work experience history, physical and mental fitness for the
position, and length of service with the city and the particular city
department or office.
   (D)   In the event that no qualified current city employee applies or the
executive officer or his or her designee determines that such position requires
the hiring of an outside candidate, the executive officer, his or her designee,
and/or department heads, at their sole and absolute discretion, may conduct a
hiring process to identify an outside candidate for the vacancy.
   (E)   Any applicant for employment with the city must complete an employment
application, which shall include such applicant’s acknowledgment that he or she
is a citizen of the United States, or has filed a declaration of intent to
become a citizen of the United States, and a declaration that all information
provided in the application is truthful. Falsification of any statements by the
applicant shall be cause for denial of employment or termination from
employment if discovered after the applicant has been hired. Evidence of a
conviction of a felony that was not reported, or other conduct unbecoming of a
city employee, or posing a threat to the legitimate business concerns of the
city or its various departments, shall also be cause for denial or termination
from employment; provided, however, prior criminal conviction(s) shall not be
an automatic bar to employment. Any application for employment with the city
must be delivered to the applicable department head or the executive officer or
his or her designee by the close of business on the last day that the vacancy
is posted.
   (F)   Upon determination of which applicants meet the minimum position-
related qualifications, the applicant’s knowledge, skill, and ability to
perform the essential functions of the position may be considered. Applicants
shall be required to provide any information and undergo any position-related
performance tests, reference checks, background checks, or other position-
related procedures necessary to demonstrate qualifications for the position
sought.
   (G)   Full-time applicants selected for employment will be required to
submit to a pre-employment alcohol and drug screen as a condition of
employment. The applicant may also be required to submit to physical and/or
psychological examinations to determine their ability to perform the duties of
the position for which they have been selected. Such examinations shall be
conducted prior to commencement of employment and shall be a condition for
acceptance as an employee of the city. All testing and examinations required by
the city shall be at the expense of the employee and will be reimbursed if
hired. Examinations may include any position-related examinations determined to
be pre-employment requirements. If an employee is being reinstated within one
year of separation, another examination may not be required. Any applicant
choosing to waive the examination requirement shall submit a written affidavit
from a qualified physician describing his or her state of health at the time of
employment.
   (H)   In the event that an applicant has a disability that affects his or
her abilities to complete employment testing, a request for reasonable
accommodation (including accessible testing sites, modified testing conditions,
and accessible testing formats) can be made by the applicant prior to the
administration of the testing. The city will evaluate all requests for
reasonable accommodations in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter
to ensure that the application process is available to all qualified
applicants.
   (I)   Requests for reasonable accommodations will be evaluated for
applicants and employees with a disability as required by applicable laws and
regulations, including, but not limited to, the ADA. Health and medical
conditions shall only be a bar to employment if the employee or applicant’s
condition is still such that, after making reasonable accommodation, he or she
could not perform the substantial and material aspects of the open position.
If, at any time after hiring an employee with a disability, the city believes
that such employee is no longer capable of performing substantial and material
duties of his or her position, the city, at its own expense, may require such
employee to undergo a medical examination conducted by a licensed physician
selected by the city.
   (J)   In conjunction with any hiring process, the city may conduct or
arrange for oral examinations, written examinations, and/or proficiency tests
as deemed necessary to select the most qualified candidates for employment and/
or promotion.
   (K)   In the event that the minimum requirements and qualifications of a
classification are changed by state or federal laws or regulations or due to
technological advancements, it shall be the sole responsibility of any employee
affected by such changes or advancements to satisfy such new minimum
requirements and qualifications within a reasonable period of time. Employees
failing to maintain the minimum requirements and qualifications of their
classification in a reasonable period of time may be subject to demotion or
termination if no vacancy exists in a classification meeting such employee’s
qualifications. For the avoidance of doubt, the city has no obligation to
create a new position or vacancy for an employee failing to maintain the
qualifications of his or her position.
   (L)   (1)   The department heads may eliminate a candidate from
consideration if the candidate:
         (a)   Does not possess the knowledge, skill, and abilities necessary
to effectively perform the duties of the vacant position;
         (b)   Has made a false statement of material fact on the application
form or supplements;
         (c)   Has committed or attempted to commit a fraudulent act at any
stage of the hiring process; or
         (d)   Is an illegal alien.
      (2)   An applicant may be eliminated from consideration upon other
reasonable grounds relating to position requirements (i.e., inability to
perform essential functions even though reasonable accommodations have been
made).
      (3)   If an applicant is hired and it is subsequently discovered that any
of the above disqualifying criteria apply, the department head may recommend
termination of the employee for dishonesty, incompetence, nonfeasance, or
malfeasance.
   (M)   Continued employment with the city is conditioned upon each employee
maintaining his or her physical, mental, and emotional ability to perform the
substantial and material duties of his or her position, and maintain a
satisfactory record of performance and discipline as determined solely and
exclusively by the executive officer and/or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.034 EMPLOYMENT ORIENTATION.
   (A)   An orientation program will be conducted for all newly hired
employees. The primary purpose of the orientation program is to acquaint new
employees with city policies and departmental rules and procedures, the city’s
organizational structure, such new city employee’s position description, and to
familiarize the new employees with facilities and equipment, and to introduce
the new city employee to department personnel and supervisors.
   (B)   The department head is responsible for establishing an orientation
program for new employees within his or her department and to designate
individuals to conduct the orientation.
   (C)   Prior to a new city employee’s first day of employment, the department
head, in conjunction with the employee designated to conduct the orientation,
shall ensure that, as applicable, documentation or understanding the items
listed below are included in the personnel file of the new city employee:
      (1)   Employment application;
      (2)   Review of city benefits;
      (3)   I-9 form with identification (examples: Social Security card,
driver’s license, birth certificate, and passport);
      (4)   W-4 form;
      (5)   457 application;
      (6)   INPRS;
      (7)   Emergency contact information;
      (8)   Completed insurance forms;
      (9)   Completed payroll information;
      (10)   Provide and review city personnel policy and procedure manual and
return signed acknowledgment page to Clerk-Treasurer;
      (11)   An understanding of the city philosophy;
      (12)   An understanding of the importance of attitude;
      (13)   An understanding of the employee dress code;
      (14)   An understanding of reporting to work (time, place, and daily and
weekly work hours);
      (15)   An understanding of where to store personal belongings while
working;
      (16)   An understanding of policies related to personal calls, emailing,
and texting;
      (17)   An understanding of where to receive payroll checks;
      (18)   An understanding of how to address questions or mistakes on
payroll checks;
      (19)   An understanding of the position description and training required
the employee’s new position;
      (20)   An understanding of the probationary period, as described herein;
      (21)   An understanding of the system for overtime/compensatory time;
      (22)   An understanding of who to call if absent;
      (23)   An understanding of safety in the workplace;
      (24)   An understanding of what to do in case of fire or other disasters;
      (25)   An understanding of first aid procedures in case of an emergency;
      (26)   An understanding of position and employee information postings;
      (27)   An understanding of how to make suggestions for improvement, how
to request use of city equipment and/or vehicles, and the city’s grievance
procedure;
      (28)   An introduction to all employees within the department; and
      (29)   Other items as determined by the department head.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the department head to establish a new
city employee orientation checklist memorializing the items described above.
The designated employee conducting any new city employee orientation will be
required to verify that each item listed above has been satisfied during the
orientation process, and, upon completion of the orientation, to obtain the new
city employee’s signature and date indicating he or she has completed the
orientation program, and, as applicable, he or she has either provided the
requisite materials or understand the corresponding concept set forth above.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.035 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   Newly hired employees shall be required to complete a 90-day
probationary period. Newly hired employees of the Police Department and the
Fire Department shall have a one-year probationary period.
   (B)   New employees shall be eligible for health and life insurance benefits
the first day of employment.
   (C)   New employees will begin accumulating PTO days on their hire date.
   (D)   The probationary period allows department heads and supervisors the
opportunity to closely observe and evaluate the new city employee’s fitness and
suitability for the position to which he or she has been hired or appointed.
   (E)   Only those employees who demonstrate an acceptable standard of conduct
and performance during the probationary period shall be retained as an employee
of the city.
   (F)   If the service of a new city employee is unsatisfactory during the
probationary period, such new city employee may be removed, upon the
recommendation of the department head and at the discretion of the executive
officer, or his or her designee, without notice. Such termination shall require
final approval of the Board.
   (G)   Any period of employment attributable to inactive pay status or an
unpaid leave of absence shall not be counted toward the completion of the
probationary period.
   (H)   INPRS benefits begin date of hire regardless of probationary period.
   (I)   The Police Department and the Fire Department, respectively, shall
adopt its own departmental policies relating to the probationary period.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.036 PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS.
   (A)   The executive officer, or his or her designee, should evaluate each
department head on an annual basis. The date of each evaluation shall be
determined by the executive officer.
   (B)   All completed performance evaluations shall be kept in the personnel
file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office.
   (C)   All other full-time employees may be evaluated by the department head
on an annual basis as determined by the executive officer or his or her
designee.
   (D)   Part-time employees and program instructors may be evaluated on an
annual basis as determined by the department head.
   (E)   Performance appraisals, when written, shall include an employee’s
performance, efficiency, and dependability appraisal during the previous year.
Appraisals may be used in determining promotions, demotions, terminations, and
rehiring.
   (F)   Performance appraisals will be discussed between the employee and the
evaluator shortly after the written evaluation is prepared. An employee may
submit a written response to the evaluator.
   (G)   The intent of performance evaluations is to determine whether an
employee is maintaining an acceptable level of performance, and as an
instrument to correct employee deficiencies in performance. Although the
specific intent of the section is not to use performance evaluations for the
sole purpose of disciplining employees, it may be used as a basis for
disciplining employees; it may be used as a basis for disciplinary action if
the employee repeatedly fails to maintain an acceptable level of performance.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.037 EMPLOYEE FILE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s Office shall maintain a confidential personnel
file for each city employee. The contents of the personnel file shall include,
but not be limited to, the following items: employment application, reference
responses, attendance records, and evaluation reports. A copy of any written
disciplinary action shall be delivered to the applicable city employee, and
shall be placed in such employee’s personnel file.
   (B)   In its discretion, the city, by and through the Clerk-Treasurer, may
retain in a separate employee file information pertaining to planning,
training, promotion, and such other items as the city or the Clerk-Treasurer
desire to retain.
   (C)   A city employee must make an appointment with the Clerk-Treasurer’s
Office at least two working days in advance to view his or her personnel file.
   (D)   City employee medical records will be maintained in accordance with
HIPAA requirements.
§ 36.038 TRANSFER AND PROMOTION.
   (A)   Where current employees demonstrate the performance and expertise
required for a vacant position, the city’s policy is to promote current
employees whenever possible.
   (B)   Where an employee is interested in a vacant position, and such
employee believes that he or she is qualified to fill such vacancy, such
employee should contact his or her supervisor. Where a current employee
demonstrates the performance and expertise for a vacancy in another department,
interdepartmental transfer is permissible.
      (1)   City hiring decisions will be made based upon evaluation of the
qualifications, work experience, and job performance of all eligible
applicants.
      (2)   Interviews will be conducted for selection in supervisory
positions.
   (C)   All employees transferred or promoted to a different position
classification must complete an additional training period.
   (D)   Normally, the training period will be 180 calendar days in the
position to which appointed, and may be used to evaluate an employee’s fitness
for the position classification in question.
   (E)   During the training period, the city employee’s performance will be
reviewed with respect to quality and quantity of work, ability, skills,
attitude, attendance, and such other factors as may be deemed appropriate.
   (F)   Subject to staffing needs and budgetary requirements, employees who
satisfactorily complete the training period may be offered either full-time or
regular part-time positions.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.039 DEMOTION.
   (A)   A demotion may occur due to any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   A city employee’s inadequate performance in his or her position;
      (2)   A city employee requests, and is granted, a transfer that results
in a demotion; or
      (3)   There is a change in the requirements for a given position, there
is a departmental restructuring, or another related circumstance occurs.
   (B)   Following the occurrence of any demotion under divisions (A)(1)
through (A)(3) above, the demoted city employee’s salary or wage may be
affected.
   (C)   Upon the demotion of a city employee, the department head supervising
such city employee and/or the executive officer will notify the city employee
and discuss the demotion with the city employee.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.040 RESIGNATION; SEPARATION.
   (A)   In the event that a city employee intends to resign, he or she should
notify the executive officer, his or her designee, or department head, as
appropriate, in writing, at least two weeks prior to the effective date of such
resignation.
   (B)   For the purposes of the INRS, a city employee who resigns while in
good standing with the city and is subsequently rehired for employment in the
same or a similar position within one year following the effective date of his
or her resignation will be considered as “reinstated”. After the expiration of
one year, a former city employee is eligible for rehire.
   (C)   Upon separation from employment, an employee shall not remove any city
property without proper authorization.
   (D)   Upon separation from employment, an employee will be paid in a lump
sum check, all remaining vacation days, the applicable percentage of remaining
PTO as set forth in this subchapter, and accrued compensatory time.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.041 TRAINING.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to help employees develop or enhance job-
related knowledge and skills through workshops, seminars, and the like.
   (B)   It is the employee’s responsibility for maintaining and upgrading job
skills. Each supervisor and employee bears primary responsibility for
maintaining individual knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform
the job, and for upgrading skills necessary to meet technological change or to
seek promotion. The city will facilitate those efforts and provide training
from time to time.
   (C)   Employees on leave of absence are not eligible for this benefit.
   (D)   Out-of-state travel must be approved, in advance, by the Board.
   (E)   Only course work approved, in advance, by the department head or
executive officer, or his or her designee, will be accepted for reimbursement.
   (F)   Certificate and/or proof of attendance and/or grade are required for
reimbursement. Pre-registration and pre-arranged fees may be paid in advance
with the executive officer or department head approval.
   (G)   Only courses that will help develop necessary or useful skills or
knowledge relevant to the employee’s current position, or to future
responsibilities that are reasonably anticipated, will be approved. Job
relevance is determined by the executive officer, his or her designee, and/or
the department head.
   (H)   The intent of approved educational assistance is not afforded the
employee for the purpose of obtaining a degree.
   (I)   Procedure for reimbursement.
      (1)   After successful completion of a workshop, seminar, and the like,
the employee must submit a certificate and/or proof of attendance and/or grades
(s) or a certificate of satisfactory performance to the department head or
executive officer.
      (2)   The city will reimburse the employee for registration and tuition,
and appropriate fees paid by the employee.
      (3)   Reimbursement shall be made by special check after all paperwork
has been submitted and approved.
      (4)   Employees, who fail to attend a training event and receive an
excused absence from the department head, will be required to reimburse the
cost to the city of the training event.
   (J)   (1)   Employees of the Electric Utility, Water Utility, Wastewater
Utility, and Stormwater Utility are encouraged to participate in the apprentice
training program under the guidelines as approved by the Board.
      (2)   Note: employees transferred or promoted may be required to have
special training and there will be a probationary period. See §
36.038.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
EMPLOYEE BEHAVIOR/CONDUCT
§ 36.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEES. All employees of the city, including part-time employees, full-
time employees, temporary employees, and department heads.
   LATE ARRIVAL. Any circumstance in which an employee reports to work after
his or her scheduled starting time, whether formally excused or not.
   OFFICIALS. All members of commissions, committees, or boards of the city,
whether established by state statute, local ordinance, policy, motion, order,
resolution, or otherwise.
§ 36.056 ETHICS; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Ethics policy.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city that officials and employees perform
their duties for the benefit of the citizens of the city and conduct the
operations of the city with loyalty, integrity, and impartiality, without
allowing prejudice, favoritism, or the opportunity for personal gain to
influence their decisions or actions, or to interfere with serving the public
interest.
      (2)   The purpose of this policy is to establish legal and ethical
standards of conduct for all officials and employees, and to require
disclosures by all officials and employees of personal or financial interests
in matters that may affect the city.
   (B)   Application. This policy shall apply to all officials and all
employees.
   (C)   Impartiality; non-discrimination. While performing official duties, no
official or employee shall grant or make available to any person any
consideration, treatment, advantage, or favor beyond that which is the city
policy to grant or make available to the public at large, without the prior
written approval of the Mayor. No official or employee shall discriminate
against any person in violation of state of federal law or regulation or city
ordinances.
   (D)   Representation. Except in the performance of his or her official
duties, no official or employee shall represent any individual petitioner other
than the city or himself or herself before the Common Council, a commission, a
board, or a committee of the city.
   (E)   Bid acceptance by department heads.
      (1)   All bids for work to be completed by a third-party will be received
by the Clerk-Treasurer and opened in public view at a regularly scheduled Board
meeting.
      (2)   Non-sealed bids or bids sent via email for projects to be completed
by a third-party will not be accepted by the department head.
      (3)   All project bids will be accepted and processed in accordance with
applicable state law provisions and city ordinances.
   (F)   Financial or personal interest disclosure.
      (1)   No official or employee, either on behalf of themselves or on
behalf of any other person, shall have any financial or personal interest in
any business or transaction with an public body, unless such official or
employee makes full public disclosure of the nature and extent of such
financial or personal interest and, if the circumstances so require,
disqualifies himself or herself from participating in the business or
transaction. In the event the aforementioned financial or personal interest of
such official or employee is determined to be ethical and not a violation of
state law, then prior to any vote on the business or transaction, the
applicable public body shall require the employee or official to fully disclose
the substance prior to the vote.
      (2)   If an official or employee believes that he or she has a potential
conflict of interest, such official or employee shall file a written public
disclosure form with the Clerk-Treasurer prior to the final approval of any
business or transaction by the applicable public body. After submission of the
public disclosure form, discussion of the nature of the conflict shall then be
scheduled for review at the next public meeting of the public body of which
that individual is a member.
      (3)   If a potential conflict of interest arises during an approving
bodies consideration of a transaction or business, that member shall declare
that a conflict may or does exist, and shall immediately disqualify himself or
herself from participating and acting on that matter.
      (4)   If covered by this policy is unsure as to the existence or non-
existence of a conflict of interest, that individual may seek an advisory
opinion from the City Attorney. The opinions rendered shall be advisory only,
and shall not serve to exempt or excuse any employee or officer from applicable
penal or civil statutes, ordinances, and regulations. The City Attorney shall
give prompt notice to the Mayor of a receipt of any such request.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.057 CONFLICT OF INTEREST — PERMITTING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to satisfy the requirements of
I.C. 36-1-27-4, as the same may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACTION SUBSEQUENT TO REPORT OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST. Promptly upon
receipt of a conflict of interest report made under this definition, the
Director of Planning, in consultation with the City Attorney, shall appoint a
qualified temporary official or employee to review and grant or deny the permit
based such temporary official or employee’s disinterested evaluation.
      CONFLICT OF INTEREST. A direct or indirect financial interest in the
issuance of a permit, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-27-1, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
      ISSUANCE OF PERMITS. A building commissioner, building code official,
inspector, or other employee charged with approving and issuing permits in the
city may not issue a permit or oversee the issuance of a permit through a
subordinate if such official or employee has a conflict of interest with
respect to the permit.
      PERMIT. Shall have the meaning given to such term under I.C. 36-7-4-1109
(b), as the same may be amended from time to time.
      REPORTING CONFLICT. A building commissioner, building code official,
inspector, or other employee charged with approving and issuing permits in the
city shall report a conflict of interest to the Director of Planning and the
City Attorney.
§ 36.058 GIFTS.
   (A)   No official or employee shall directly or indirectly solicit, accept,
or receive any gift or consideration, whether in the form of money, services, a
loan, travel, entertainment, tickets, or a thing of promise intended to
influence himself or herself to act other than impartially in the performance
of his or her official duties, or intended as a reward for any such action on
his or her part.
   (B)   The following shall not constitute gifts or consideration for purposes
of this section:
      (1)   A gift of nominal value is a gift that does not exceed $250 or such
greater amount approved upon written request by the Board;
      (2)   Trade discounts offered to all employees or all members of one or
more city departments;
      (3)   Trade discounts offered to general public or to private groups such
as professionals, religious, or service organizations;
      (4)   Food consumed at public, professional, governmental, IMPA, or
community-sponsored receptions, functions, or events;
      (5)   Entertainment provided at a public, professional, governmental,
IMPA, or community event, function, or reception in which multiple officials or
employees of the city or of other municipalities are present. Examples include,
but are not limited to, picnics, holiday parties, celebrations, golf outings,
sporting events, social events, or other forms of entertainment;
      (6)   Acceptance of professional or public awards, reflecting positive
performance, or community service; and
      (7)   Campaign contributions reported in full compliance with federal,
state, and local statutes and ordinances as they may apply.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.059 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No employee or official shall use or permit the use of any confidential
information regarding city business to advance their or any other person’s
financial or personal interest.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.060 USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   No official or employee shall use the funds, property, equipment,
supplies, or labor of the city or any public body for the private benefit of
the official, employee, or any other individual or group of individuals, unless
the same benefit is available to the general public on equal terms, or the use
is in accordance with city policies or ordinances.
   (B)   No official or employee shall use the funds, property, equipment,
supplies, or labor of the city or any public body to perform services or
provide benefit to any non-public property unless an emergency exists, the use
or service is in accordance with municipal policies or ordinances, or
authorization is granted by the appropriate department head and approved by the
Board.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.061 NOTICE OF ALLEGED ETHICS NON-COMPLIANCE.
   If anyone has reason to believe that there has been non-compliance with this
policy, he or she shall deliver a written complaint thereof to the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.062 ETHICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All officials and employees shall receive a copy of this policy from
the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days of its adoption or upon hire
of new employees or upon appointment of new officials.
   (B)   An official or employee should address any inquiries as to the
revisions or references made herein to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall respond, in writing, to any written request for an
interpretation of a rule or regulation of this policy.
   (C)   In the event that the terms of this policy are in conflict with any
federal or state law or ruling of a federal or state agency, the law, rule,
regulation, or ruling of the federal or state agency shall supersede the terms
of this policy.
   (D)   This policy shall not prohibit an official or employee from being
reimbursed for expenses, receiving money as a campaign contribution,
participating in collective bargaining, being paid for a service as a city or
employee, or any other exception that may be provided by applicable state law
or state rules and regulations or any ruling of a state agency.
   (E)   No official or employee shall represent a person, entity, or
petitioner in any matter before the city for a period of 90 days following
termination of their duties or responsibilities with the city.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.063 ETHICAL STANDARDS — HONEST/INTEGRITY.
   Employees and officials shall conduct themselves with honesty and integrity
which shall include, but not be limited to, the following duties and actions:
   (A)   To act with moral courage;
   (B)   To make decisions for the public’s best interests, even when such
decisions may not be popular;
   (C)   To refrain from business that would be, directly or indirectly,
inconsistent with the conscientious performance of one’s public duties;
   (D)   To refrain from making private promises of any kind that may unduly
influence one’s public duties; and
   (E)   To accept the responsibility to:
      (1)   Expose corrupt practices and/or behaviors; and
      (2)   Where empowered to do so, to protect from retaliation any public
employee who has exposed corrupt practices and/or behaviors.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.064 ETHICAL STANDARDS — RESPECT/CIVILITY.
   Employees and officials shall conduct themselves with respect and civility
which shall include, but not be limited to, the following duties and actions:
   (A)   To treat others as one would wish to be treated;
   (B)   To accomplish the goals and responsibilities of one’s individual
position, while respecting one’s role as a member of a team and the community
at large;
   (C)   To act in a professional and responsive manner;
   (D)   To work together in a spirit of tolerance and understanding;
   (E)   To work to build consensus and accommodate diverse opinions;
   (F)   To communicate effectively by listening carefully, asking questions,
and responding in a way that adds value to conversations;
   (G)   To treat all citizens with respect and courtesy; and
   (H)   In the case of employees, to refrain from arguments, debates, or
lengthy discussions with private citizens regarding the city’s policies,
procedures, or services. Any employee who feels he or she cannot resolve the
complaint from a private citizen should refer that individual to his or her
department head.
§ 36.065 ETHICAL STANDARDS — ACCOUNTABILITY/RESPONSIBILITY.
   Employees and officials shall conduct themselves with accountability and
responsibility which shall include, but not be limited to, the following duties
and actions:
   (A)   To not participate in any decision where there is a conflict of
interest or from which one’s family, business, or professional associates may
personally or financially benefit;
   (B)   To not use one’s position, public property, or public resources for
the personal benefits of oneself, one’s family, or one’s business or
professional associates;
   (C)   To refrain from soliciting or accepting any favor or benefit for one’s
family, one’s business, professional associates, or oneself that might be
construed as influencing the performance of one’s public duties;
   (D)   To make full public disclosure of the nature of any conflict of
interest prior to any action taken;
   (E)   To avoid disclosing or abusing the information that one gains by
virtue of one’s position for the personal or financial benefit or for the
benefit of any third-party or professional associates;
   (F)   To not engage in direct competition with the city while an employee,
an appointed official, elected official, or executive officer; and
   (G)   To support the public’s right to know the truth and encourage diverse
and civil public debate in the decision-making process.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.066 ETHICAL STANDARDS — FAIRNESS/JUSTICE.
   (A)   Employees and officials shall conduct themselves with fairness and
justice which shall include, but not be limited to, the following duties:
      (1)   To promote non-discrimination in decision-making for the city, and
to make decisions based upon the merits of the issue at hand;
      (2)   To recognize the function of government to serve the best interest
of the citizens;
      (3)   To use one’s authority to promote the efficient and effective
delivery of public service;
      (4)   To refrain from proposing services where adequate resources are not
available; and
      (5)   To work to remedy the imbalance where inadequate resources
adversely affect the best interest of the citizens.
   (B)   Behavior inconsistent with the values set forth in this policy may be
subject of disciplinary proceedings, up to and including termination from
employment or removal from office.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.067 GROOMING.
   When appropriate, a clean and neat appearance is required. (It is understood
that some employees may become dirty during in the course of performing their
job duties. Every effort should be made to provide the community with a neat
and clean appearance when possible.) Beards and hairstyles must be neatly kept
and trimmed to instill public confidence and respect.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.068 CLOTHING/ATTIRE.
   (A)   The city is a place of business and employees should dress
accordingly.
   (B)   The city provides some of its employees with uniforms. These uniforms
are provided and maintained at no cost to the employee. It is required that all
employees who are provided uniforms wear them when they are on duty unless
otherwise directed by his or her supervisor. If not dressed in clothing
provided during a work period, the employee shall be sent home to dress in work
clothes.
   (C)   The employee will not be paid while traveling to and from home to
change into work attire.
   (D)   Employees of the Police Department and the Fire Department must refer
to the standard operating procedures of his or her department pertaining to
uniform policies.
   (E)   All clothing allowances will be taxed according to IRS rules and
included on the employee’s W-2.
   (F)   All employees’ clothing attire must follow OSHA laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.069 EMPLOYEE FITNESS FOR DUTY.
   The city has a strong commitment to provide a safe and healthy environment
for its employees.
   (A)   All employees must be able to perform his, her, or their job duties.
Any employee deemed unfit to perform such duties will be subject to a written
reprimand, up to and including being sent home for the day. Discipline for the
same infraction may be cause for disciplinary action, up to and including
dismissal.
   (B)   Fitness for duty will be determined when reasonable suspicion exists
that the employee is unfit to continue working. When an employee’s appearance,
behavior, speech, or body odors indicate he or she may have an illness, drug or
alcohol use, or other health-related issues that could affect the entire staff,
or the employee’s ability to perform his or her duties, he or she will be
disciplined or sent home according to this policy. Such observations must be
personally observed and documented by at least one supervisor. This supervisor
will use his or her best judgment to determine whether disciplinary action or
merely sending the employee home is required.
   (C)   An employee is obligated to notify his or her immediate supervisor
when reporting for duty or in the course of work, if the use of any substance,
even if medically required, may adversely affect his or her ability to
satisfactorily perform his or her normal job.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.070 BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   Employees shall always treat the public with respect and are expected
to adopt a friendly, courteous, and service-oriented attitude towards the
public.
   (B)   The possession or use of a firearm, ammunition, or other deadly
weapons on city property, or while on duty by employees who are not authorized
to possess such weapons, is strictly prohibited.
   (C)   Personal telephone calls are acceptable, but should be limited.
Receiving personal telephone calls at work shall be limited as much as
possible. (Family/friends should be informed concerning this policy.) When
telephone calls are necessary, employees should try to limit the length of the
call. No personal long-distance calls may be made without the supervisor’s
authorization. All personal long-distance calls shall be reimbursed to the city
by the employee.
   (D)   Use of personal cellular phones during working hours shall not
interfere with the employee’s regular duties and should be kept to a minimum.
   (E)   Use of the city’s internet system for personal use shall be limited.
Employees should check with their department head for specific limitations of
their respective departments.
   (F)   Fighting, immoral acts, threats, intimidation, or similar behavior
aimed at the public or other employees will not be tolerated.
   (G)   Visits from family and friends while on duty should be limited.
   (H)   While not everything can be listed, employees should remember that
their behavior should reflect the fact that they work for the public and that
their behavior could negatively affect the people they meet.
   (I)   Department heads may have additional behavior policies not referred to
in this manual.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.071 LATE ARRIVAL.
   (A)   Late arrival on a regular basis is inexcusable and will not be
tolerated.
   (B)   In addition, if an employee is late, that employee may be subject to
appropriate disciplinary action.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.072 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Employment conflicts, as described in this policy, are when a second
job impairs an employee’s ability to perform the duties of his or her position.
   (B)   Full-time employment by the city shall be considered the employee’s
primary occupation, taking precedence over all other occupations. “Outside”
employment, or moonlighting, shall be a concern to the department head only if
it adversely affects the job performance of the employee’s city job.
   (C)   Should the department head feel that an employee’s outside employment
is adversely affecting the employee’s job performance, the department head may
recommend, but may not demand, that the employee refrain from such activity.
   (D)    However, any conflict, policy infractions, or other specific offense
that is the direct result of an employee’s participation in outside employment
will subject the employee to discipline or discharge, in a manner that is
otherwise consistent with the policies set forth in this manual.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.073 PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   Rules of conduct.
      (1)   All employees are expected to perform their duties in a competent,
efficient, and professional manner. Further, employees are required to act
courteously and cooperatively with their fellow employees, supervisors, and the
public. When employee conduct falls below these standards, disciplinary action
may be warranted.
      (2)   In order to promote the common good and welfare of the city and its
employees, the city has established rules of conduct. The commission of any of
the acts listed below will result in disciplinary action, ranging from verbal
or written warnings to suspension or to immediate discharge, depending on the
act and the circumstances.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any provision contained herein, for the purpose of
imposing discipline in accordance with the provisions set below, a disciplinary
action that has occurred more than ten years prior to the event precipitating
the current disciplinary action, shall not be considered in determining the
nature and extent of the current disciplinary action to be taken, unless the
prior disciplinary event is of a similar type and/or nature as the one being
considered. This list is not exhaustive.
   (B)   Group I rules. If a violation of a Group I rule occurs, the department
head/assistant will use the following procedures:
      (1)   Step 1. Corrective interview, confirmed in writing.
      (2)   Step 2. Continued violation of any Group I rule within a 12-month
period may subject the employee to up to three days suspension without pay.
      (3)   Step 3. Continued violations of any Group I rule, following a
disciplinary suspension may be subject to discharge. (Pending review by an
executive officer and Board hearing.)
      (4)   Examples of disciplinary violations. The following list, which is
not intended to be an exhaustive list, provides examples of disciplinary
violations:
         (a)   Excessive tardiness or absence;
         (b)   Leaving city premises during working hours without permission;
         (c)   Failing to report absence within one-half hour of starting time;
         (d)   Unprofessional behavior while performing job duties;
         (e)   Neglect of duty and/or failure to perform assigned duties;
         (f)   Failure to follow established work procedure and policies;
         (g)   Horseplay or use of machinery, equipment, or tools in a
hazardous manner;
         (h)   Creating or contributing to any unsanitary condition;
         (i)   Unauthorized use of bulletin boards;
         (j)   Posting notices in unauthorized places;
         (k)   Restricting one’s own production or interfering with the
production of other employees;
         (l)   Conducting personal business on city time;
         (m)   Failing to make an immediate report of an occupational injury;
         (n)   Failure to report a traffic ticket while driving a city vehicle;
         (o)   Loafing, loitering, or sleeping on the job; and
         (p)   Smoking in restricted areas.
   (C)   Group II rules. Any violation of a Group II rule will result in the
employee being relieved from duty with pay, and may be subject to discharge
pending a Board hearing. Examples of Group II disciplinary actions include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Absence without notification for three or more consecutive
workdays;
      (2)   Failing to return from leave of absence as scheduled; improper use
of accident leaves or extended disability leave benefits;
      (3)   Insubordination;
      (4)   Possessing firearms, weapons, explosives, and so forth on the
premises or in city vehicles (with the exceptions of authorized personnel);
      (5)   Disclosure of confidential city information to outsiders without
proper authorization;
      (6)   Completing another employee’s time record or allowing another to
complete one’s time record;
      (7)   Mistreatment of members of the public, fellow employees, or
supervisory personnel or blatant disrespect of fellow employees, supervisor, or
citizens;
      (8)   Using abusive or threatening language;
      (9)   Sexual harassment;
      (10)   Unwanted physical contact;
      (11)   Using, selling, or being under the influence of illegal substances
or controlled substances not prescribed by a physician;
      (12)   Disorderly, offensive, or illegal conduct;
      (13)   Falsifying any city records or employment application;
      (14)   Stealing or committing any criminal offense on city property or
while on duty;
      (15)   Damage to or improper use of city property, either willfully or
through gross negligence;
      (16)   Intentional making of scrap or waste;
      (17)   Unauthorized use or possession of city property;
      (18)   In certain departments, felony conviction may lead to termination;
      (19)   Fighting or committing an assault;
      (20)   Violating safety regulations; and
      (21)   Failure to report an accident while on city time.
   (D)   At the discretion of the executive officer, Board, Police Board, and
Fire Board, the employee’s disciplinary history may be considered when
addressing disciplinary matters.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.074 EMPLOYEE APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event that disciplinary action must be taken against an
employee, it will be for just cause and normally in a progressive manner in an
attempt to correct an employee’s conduct, except in those cases of gross or
serious misconduct where an employee may be subject to suspension, reduction,
or removal from employment for violation of Group II rules.
   (B)   In instances of possible suspension without pay, reductions in pay or
position, or termination, an employee shall be notified of the charges in
advance, and be afforded the opportunity to present evidence and witnesses on
his or her behalf prior to the instatement of disciplinary action. The
disciplinary hearing will be before the executive officer, his or her designee,
or the Board. The employee may also be represented by third-party if so
requested.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.075 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It is inevitable that misunderstandings and differences will arise
when employees of the city are working together on a day-to-day basis. To
ensure that employees have a formal process through which to resolve their
problems, the following grievance procedure is hereby established.
      (1)   Step 1.
         (a)   The employee will submit a written grievance to his or her
department head within three working days of the occurrence of the action
giving rise to the grievance. The grievance must be signed and dated by the
employee.
         (b)   The employee’s immediate supervisor shall meet with the employee
and make every effort to resolve the grievance within three working days of the
date of the grievance.
         (c)   The department head will respond, in writing, to the employee
within three working days of the immediate supervisor’s informal review,
outlining his or her decision regarding the requested remedy.
      (2)   Step 2.
         (a)   If the grievance is not resolved through the Step 1
intervention, a written appeal shall be prepared in detail, dated, and signed
by the employee, and presented to the Board or such other appropriate board
deemed appropriate by the department head. The written appeal shall be
delivered within three working days after the receipt of the department head’s
reply from step 1.
         (b)   Upon receipt of the written appeal and a copy of the department
head’s response, the Board or such other appropriate board shall attempt to
resolve the grievance in writing within five working days of the date of
presentation of the written grievance.
      (3)   Step 3. A hearing may be held before the Board or such other
appropriate board if requested by the employee. The employee and department
head shall appear at such hearing, along with any other persons having relevant
information pertaining to the grievance. A detailed investigation will follow
such hearing, and thereafter the Board shall issue a final decision within ten
working days of the date of the hearing. The decision of the board conducting
the hearing will be final and binding upon the employee and the department.
   (B)   The time limits set forth in the procedures contained herein may be
extended by mutual written agreement of the parties due to extenuating
circumstances.
   (C)   A grievance shall be considered resolved if, at any point during the
three step process, the employee who filed the grievance withdraws his or her
grievance, in writing, or fails to prosecute the grievance in accordance with
the time limits set forth herein. Any grievance not answered by the department
head shall be deemed to be a denial of the relief requested, and may be
advanced to the next step by the employee who filed the grievance.
GENERAL POLICIES
§ 36.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVATAR. Computer user’s representation of himself or herself, or an alter
ego
   BLOG. A series of entries, written by either one person or a group of
people, in an online journal, usually posted in chronological order, like a
diary.
   BLOGGING. To read, write, or edit a blog and also to comment or otherwise
engage with other commenters on a blog.
   COMMENTING. The act of creating and posting a response to a blog post, news
article, social media entry, or other social networking post, and can also
entail the act of posting an original composition to an unrelated post or
article.
   COMMENTS. Responses to a blog post, news article, social media entry, or
other social networking post.
   CRITICAL SERVICE EMPLOYEES. Those employees who are employees of any public
safety department (i.e., employees of the Police Department and Fire
Department), and those employees of departments that render services to the
public, ensuring its safety, directly contribute to the city’s emergency
operations designed to combat the specific emergency situation at hand, and/or
ensure continued essential public service.
   DISTRIBUTION. The passing out of any type of literature, advertising,
handbills, circulars, forms, or any other memorabilia.
   EXEMPT EMPLOYEE. Any employee classified as executive, administrative, or
professional according to provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA),
plus any elected officer. These individuals are not subject to the overtime
payment requirements of the FLSA. Due to the nature of their work, these
employees are expected to have flexible working hours, which may exceed 40
hours per week. These individuals should not expect to receive overtime pay or
formal compensatory time for such.
   FORUM. An online discussion site.
   HANDLE. An online pseudonym.
   HOURLY EMPLOYEE. An employee paid an hourly rate weekly based upon a 35-hour
workweek.
   IDENTITY. An online identity, internet identity, or internet persona that a
social networking user establishes.
   INTERNET. A computer network consisting of a worldwide network of computer
networks that use the TCP/IP network protocols to facilitate data transmission
and exchange.
   IOSHA. The Indiana Occupational Health and Safety Act, being I.C. 22-8-1.1-
1 et seq., as the same may be amended, repealed, or replaced from time to time.
   MOBILE SOCIAL NETWORKING. Social networking using a mobile phone or other
cellular-based device.
   NON-CRITICAL SERVICE EMPLOYEE. Any employee of a department who renders
services determined to be non-critical in case of emergency.
   NON-EXEMPT EMPLOYEE. Any employee of a department that does not meet the
Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., exempt
provision, such individuals will be eligible for overtime and or compensatory
time off.
   NON-WORK AREA. Any area on or off the city’s premises not designated as a
work area.
   NON-WORK TIME. Any time during an employee’s workday where the employee is
completely relieved of work duties, such as break time and lunchtime.
   OSHA. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 651
et seq., as the same may be amended, repealed, or replaced from time to time.
   POST. An item submitted to a blog or an entry submitted for posting on any
type of computerized platform or forum.
   POSTING. The act of creating, uploading, editing, or adding content, whether
photographs, videos, or writings, to any social medial outlet.
   SALARIED EMPLOYEE. An employee paid a predetermined annual sum on a bi-
weekly basis.
   SOCIAL MEDIA. A variety of online sources that allow people to communicate,
share information, share photographs, share videos, share audio, and exchange
text messages and other multimedia files with others via some form of online or
cellular network platform.
   SOCIAL NETWORKING. The use of such internet or mobile formats as Facebook,
Twitter, Usenet groups, online forums, message boards or bulletin boards,
blogs, or other similar formats or forums, to communicate with others using the
same group, while also networking with other users based upon similar
interests, geographical location, skills, occupations, ideology, beliefs, and
the like.
   SOLICITATION means, but is not limited to, any act that requests, urges, or
seeks to induce an employee to give or obligate him or her to pay money for any
cause or for any reason, or to sign any document indicating membership in any
obligation, association, or group, or indicating support for or a pledge to any
such organization, association, or group.
   SPAM. Unauthorized and/or unsolicited electronic mass mailings.
   USER NAME. The name provided by the participant during the registration
process associated with a website that will be displayed publicly on the site.
   WEATHER/CIVIL EMERGENCY. A significant weather event, such as a blizzard, a
flood, or a tornado that causes the Mayor, or other individual designated by
local or state law, to declare a state of emergency.
   WORK AREA. Areas, including, but not limited to, offices, work sites,
locations, conference rooms, common areas, and corridors leading directly
thereto, and other areas essential to the performance of an employee’s duties.
   WORK TIME. Periods of time, including, but not limited to, periods of time
when an employee’s duties require that he or she to be engaged in work tasks,
but does not include the employee’s personal time such as meal periods,
scheduled break periods, and time before or after a work shift.
   WORLD WIDE WEB. A computer network consisting of a collection of internet
sites that offer text, graphics, sound, and animation resources through the
hypertext transfer protocol.
§ 36.091 TRAVEL AND EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   An employee may be reimbursed for mileage at the federal government
mileage rate for the use of privately owned automobiles for official business.
However, such reimbursement may be made only if the employee carries motor
vehicle liability insurance, as required by law, and demonstrates proof
thereof.
   (B)   To obtain reimbursement for mileage, an employee must file all
receipts on travel expense reports provided by the employee’s department from
time to time. On each travel expense report, the employee must state the origin
and destination of each trip in sufficient detail to account for the mileage
claimed. Under no circumstances shall an employee receive reimbursement for
travel between an employee’s home and the city offices. Travel expense reports
detailing travel expenses that an employee incurred more than 60 days prior to
the date of the travel expense report must be accompanied by a letter of
explanation detailing the reason for tardy submission of such report.
   (C)   Where an employee uses a city credit card to incur travel expenses,
all claims and receipts must be delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer within 45 days
of such travel expenses and the monthly credit card statement must be provided
to the Clerk-Treasurer on a monthly basis.
   (D)   Personal travel expenses are not reimbursable. For the purposes of
this section, “personal travel expenses” include, but are not limited to,
personal telephone calls, cable television, movies, laundry, entertainment, and
alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   All meal receipts submitted for reimbursement must be itemized.
According to IRS regulations, meal expenses incurred during non-overnight
travel will be a taxable fringe benefit.
   (F)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this section,
the failure of an employee to submit receipts within the time period set forth
herein may result in such employee not receiving reimbursement for eligible
travel expenses.
§ 36.092 HEALTH/SAFETY.
   (A)   In accordance with the OSHA, the city has established that, as a
matter of policy, a safe and healthful workplace shall be provided for all
employees. The executive officer has the ultimate responsibility and authority
for compliance with the federal and state laws pertaining to occupational
safety and health.
   (B)   Each employee is to work in a safe manner and observe the safety
procedures as instructed by his or her supervisor.
   (C)   Any employee who has a valid prescription for a narcotic and is
required to take the medication during work hours is required to inform his or
her supervisor of the prescription. This employee will not be allowed to
operate a city-owned vehicle or heavy equipment.
   (D)   Any accident hazards or unsafe conditions of equipment are to be
corrected or reported to the employee’s department head immediately, who will
then notify the Director of Human Resources. The Director of Human Resources
has been designated as the central point of contact for OSHA/IOSHA issues.
Nothing in this appointment shall reduce the responsibility or authority of
department heads, managers, and/or supervisors from the effective and ongoing
performance of OSHA/IOSHA.
   (E)   If an employee is involved in an accident while working, or witnesses
an accident by another employee, such accident shall be reported immediately to
the supervisor for further action in accordance with applicable city policies.
   (F)   Workers’ compensation forms will be filed for all injuries. All
department heads or their designees will file their report, on behalf of the
employee, within 24 hours of the accident. The degree of injury does not
matter. If the employee has complications later, a properly completed form will
allow the treatment to be covered by workers’ compensation.
   (G)   If an employee is injured and is physically unable to complete the
balance of the workday, he or she shall be paid for the remainder of that day.
Further absence may require the employee to apply for benefits pursuant to
workers’ compensation.
   (H)   The city’s compliance with applicable OSHA/IOSHA laws, standards,
policies, and the like shall be monitored, and documented by the Director of
Human Resources.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.093 LACTATION POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The city will provide a room designated as the employee
lactation room. This room will be private and sanitary, to express their milk
during work hours.
      (2)   Employees may also use their private office area.
   (B)   (1)   The city will provide refrigeration for safe storage of
expressed breastmilk.
      (2)   Employees may use their own cooler packs to store expressed
breastmilk or may store milk in a designated refrigerator/freezer.
      (3)   Employees should provide their own containers, clearly labeled with
name and date.
   (C)   Employees shall be provided flexible break periods to accommodate milk
expression.
§ 36.094 SAFETY DATA SHEETS.
   (A)   The city will maintain and utilize appropriate safety data sheets
required by federal law on any products, chemicals, or substances used in the
community.
   (B)   In cases where an employee may come in contact with a substance and
medical treatment is necessary, a copy of the material safety data sheet will
accompany the employee to the medical facility.
§ 36.095 BLOOD-BORNE PATHOGENS.
   All departments within the city may have occupational exposure to blood or
other potentially infectious material.
   (A)   Universal precautions will be observed at the city in order to prevent
contact with blood or infectious materials. All blood and potentially
infectious material will be considered infectious, regardless of the perceived
status of the source of the material.
   (B)   Employees should not compress trash in waste cans, as it would be easy
to be stuck by a needle or other sharp object. Employees should also not place
his or her hand on the bottom of trash bags for support as he or she could be
stuck by sharp objects in the bag. Employees should examine the bags before
picking them up to be sure there are no sharp objects sticking out of the bag.
   (C)   Hand washing facilities are also available to employees who are
exposed to potentially infectious materials. Upon such exposure, employees
should wash their hands and bodies as soon as possible.
   (D)   When encountering potentially hazardous materials, employees should
wear protective gloves whenever possible.
   (E)   When performing CPR, proper face guards must be used.
   (F)   Employees shall refrain from reusing protective gloves, face guards,
or other protective equipment.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.096 HIPAA PRIVACY RULE.
   (A)   The HIPAA privacy rule (Standards for Privacy of Individually
Identifiable Health Information) provides national standards for protecting the
privacy of health information. The privacy rule regulates how certain entities,
called covered entities, use and disclose certain individually identifiable
health information, called protected health information (PHI). PHI is
individually identifiable health information that is transmitted or maintained
in any form or medium (e.g., electronic, paper, or oral), but excludes certain
educational records and employment records.
   (B)   This excluded information must relate to:
      (1)   The past, present, or future physical or mental health, or
condition of an individual;
      (2)   Provision of health care to an individual; or
      (3)   Payment for the provision of health care to an individual. If the
information identifies or provides a reasonable basis to believe it can be used
to identify an individual, it is considered individually identifiable health
information.
   (C)   The city will maintain the employee’s health and medical records in
accordance with the requirements of HIPAA.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.097 SMOKING POLICY.
   (A)   The use of any tobacco products, including electronic and vapor
cigarettes by an employee or non-employee shall be prohibited in all city-owned
buildings.
   (B)   Tobacco use areas must be at least eight feet from any public
building.
   (C)   The use of any tobacco products, including electronic, and vapor
cigarettes within city-owned vehicles shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Violation of this policy by any employee may result in disciplinary
action up to and including termination.
§ 36.098 TOOLS, EQUIPMENT, AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Employees are prohibited from using and loaning city vehicles,
materials, tools, equipment, and labor for personal or private use, regardless
of whether it is during work or non-work time.
   (B)   Employees may not expend labor during scheduled work hours for work
not related to city business. This prohibits any employee from performing
private work for himself or herself, another employee, or a non-employee.
   (C)   Any city employee required to operate a city vehicle in the course of
his or her employment shall be subject to the following conditions and
restrictions:
      (1)   Annual record checks at the Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
      (2)   Use of seat belts by all occupants; and
      (3)   Reassignment or other appropriate personnel action in the event of
license revocation, suspension, or arrest for a DUI.
   (D)   (1)   Employees who are required to operate city vehicles during the
course of his or her employment must immediately report any condition that
adversely affects his or her ability to operate such vehicle(s) and/or
equipment;
      (2)   Must be able to meet insurability standards/requirements of the
city’s liability insurance provider; and
      (3)   Must maintain a valid driver’s license and provide a photocopy of
the same to the Clerk-Treasurer upon initial hire, and thereafter within five
days of license renewal, exclusive of temporary license permits.
   (E)   In addition, employees must use assigned city vehicles, when
available, for the purpose(s) authorized. Reimbursement for necessary emergency
road service and repairs, parking, and highway-related tolls require
appropriate receipts for reimbursement.
   (F)   Employees will not operate any city vehicle or personal vehicle during
working hours in such a manner so as to cause public criticism or create a
nuisance.
   (G)   In the event of an accident, employees must do the following:
      (1)   Assist any injured party if possible and call 911;
      (2)   Do not move any vehicles unless instructed to do so by proper
police authority;
      (3)   Write down all pertinent facts, such as the other driver’s name;
address; telephone number; license plate number; driver’s license number;
Social Security number; name of city’s insurance policy; and number, name,
address, and telephone number of any injured party or witness;
      (4)   Employees should not admit any fault or make any oral or written
statements, but give their name, address, telephone number, and the like, as
required;
      (5)   Notify the supervisor and submit a written report as soon as
possible; and
      (6)   Supervisors must report all accidents to the Director of Human
Resources.
   (H)   Employees assigned a city vehicle for duty-to-domicile travel are
subject to Internal Revenue Service rulings regarding such usage. The use of
such a vehicle for commuting is considered by the IRS to be a taxable benefit.
A value must be established and the total annual amount reported to the IRS on
each employee’s W-2 form.
   (I)   Prior to a non-city employee riding in a city vehicle, it must be
authorized by the department head.
   (J)   The city will require mileage log books in all city vehicles.
Employees may be required to log mileage and purpose of the trip, as well as
any authorized passenger.
   (K)   Any vehicle owned by the city and used by an employee will display a
city decal, except those vehicles designated by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
   (L)   Any employee driving a city vehicle who receives a traffic or parking
citation shall immediately notify his or her supervisor.
   (M)   Standard operating procedures of the Police and Fire Departments
supersede this section.
   (N)   Prior to a non-city employee riding in the city vehicle, it must be
authorized by the department head.
   (O)   Employees shall refrain from operating handheld cellular telephones or
any other device that may cause vehicle operator distraction while operating a
city vehicle. Employees shall make every attempt to properly park their vehicle
or use a hands-free device when using such equipment.
§ 36.099 TAKE HOME VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following classifications of employees may be assigned a take home
vehicle:
      (1) Department heads; and
      (2) Assistant department heads/forepersons who assist with after hours on
call.
   (B)   Any employee assigned a take home vehicle under this chapter is
subject to Internal Revenue Service regulations and rulings regarding usage of
a take home vehicle, including that, under current law, the use of such a take
home vehicle for commuting is considered by the IRS to be a taxable benefit.
With respect to any take home vehicle assigned to an employee in accordance
with this chapter, a value for such vehicle must be established with such value
being reported to the IRS on an annual basis on each employee’s W-2 Form.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no employee will be permitted to
use a take home vehicle for conducting a private business or enterprise, or for
personal use. However, it is recognized that a de minimis amount of personal
use during a scheduled shift as well as to and from work is acceptable.
   (D)   The city will require mileage log books in all city vehicles;
employees will be required to log mileage and purpose of the trip, as well as
any authorized passenger.
   (E)   Employees shall not transport any persons other than city employees in
a city vehicle, except with written permission of the department head.
   (F)   The operation of a take home vehicle for travel to and from work does
not constitute work time. All employees operating take home vehicles shall be
deemed to be off of the clock until they arrive at a bona-fide work assignment.
   (G)   Any employee who has a take home vehicle and is placed on light duty
or suspension shall be prohibited from transporting his or her take home
vehicle to his or her residence during such light duty assignment or
suspension. The applicable department head or the city reserve the right to
reassign take home vehicles while an employee is suspended or assigned to light
duty.
   (H)   Except in the case of emergency, employees shall park take home
vehicles legally and keep take home vehicles secured. Employees shall not leave
sensitive information or public documents (other than reference material) in
his or her take home vehicle while off duty.
   (I)   Any employee on vacation or PTO leave exceeding ten days will park his
or her take home vehicle at a secure location on city property.
   (J)   Take home authorization may be revoked upon the occurrence of any of
the following:
      (1)   Failure of an employee to comply with the provisions of this policy
or the city travel policy;
      (2)   A change in an employee’s job duties or assignments such that a
take home vehicle is no longer required or justified in the sole and absolute
discretion of the applicable department head or the city;
      (3)   An employee is involved in two accidents in a city vehicle within
an 18-month period and is determined to be at fault for such accidents;
      (4)   An employee fails to maintain a valid driver’s license;
      (5)   A leave of absence attributable to a worker’s compensation claim or
other medical care the terms of which prohibit operating a vehicle; and
      (6)   An employee fails to properly care for, maintain, and/or operate
his or her take home vehicle.
   (K)   The standard operating procedures of the Police Department and Fire
Department shall supersede this take-home vehicle policy.
§ 36.100 SOLICITATION AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Non-employees of the city who wish to visit city facilities for
purposes of solicitation or distribution or employees who wish to take part in
solicitation or distribution shall give the executive officer, his or her
designee, and/or department head not less than 24 hours notice of such
solicitation or distribution. The notice given by non-employees shall be
accompanied by a list of persons intending access and a designated time for the
solicitation. The notice of employees shall be accompanied by a designated time
for solicitation. All solicitation and distribution activity shall be confined
to non-work time and in non-work areas designated by the city, and must not
jeopardize health and safety. Exceptions to this are at the sole discretion of
the executive officer, his or her designee, and/or department head and may
include such persons as suppliers, vendors, and manufacturer’s representatives
who make regular visits with the continuing knowledge of the executive officer,
his or her designee, and/or department head.
   (B)   The executive officer, his or her designee, or department heads may
regulate any solicitation and distribution activity by any employee or non-
employee, which disrupts or interferes with the normal work of the city on its
premises or in areas under the operational control of the city.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.101 SOCIAL MEDIA.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to direct employees with respect to his
or her use of social media and social networking, and the direct affect such
use has upon the reputation and perception of the city.
   (B)   Employees are prohibited from posting any of the following on any
social media networking platform, either on his or her own sites, the sites of
others known to them, the sites of others unknown to them, news media pages, or
other information exchange forums:
      (1)   Any text, photograph, audio, video, or any other multimedia file
related to any action and/or investigation of the city, both current and past;
      (2)   Any text, photograph, audio, video, or any other multimedia file
related to any action of the city, both current and past, either in homage or
critique;
      (3)   Any text, photograph, audio, video, or any other multimedia file
related to any occurrence of within the city, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Fellow employees; and
         (b)   Work performed on behalf of the city.
   (C)   Pictures of employees in uniforms or other forms of city
identification are not to be used in any form of social media (without the
prior written approval of the applicable department head).
   (D)   Employees who choose to maintain or participate in social media or
networking platforms while off duty shall always conduct themselves with
professionalism and in such a manner that will not reflect negatively upon
themselves or the city. The following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Employees will be held responsible for content that appears on his
or her maintained social media or social networking sites, and will be
obligated to remove any posting or material contributed by others that is
detrimental to the reputation of this city, or that is not in accordance with
this policy and all other policies.
      (2)   Employees shall not post sexually graphic or explicit material of
any kind on any form of social media or social networking, and shall
immediately remove any material of this nature posted on his or her site by
another individual.
      (3)   Weaponry of any kind shall not be displayed or referenced to in any
multimedia format on sites that might depict, promote, or glorify violence or
terrorism of any type.
      (4)   Any text, photograph, audio, video, or any other multimedia file
included on a site that infers, implies, state, opines, or otherwise expresses
the employee’s view on the public, legal, judicial, criminal systems, or other
department shall not be detrimental to the department’s mission, values, or
vision statement or violate any policies.
      (5)   Any text, photographs, audio, video, or any other multimedia file
that contains obscene or explicit language, including, but not limited to,
cursing, racist, sexist, religious, or slanderous comments.
   (E)   Employees should be aware that he or she may be subject to civil
litigation along with formal discipline for publishing or posting false
information that harms the reputation of another person, group, or
organization, otherwise known as defamation.
   (F)   Employees should be aware that privacy settings and social media sites
are constantly in flux, and he or she should never assume that personal
information posted on such sites is protected.
   (G)   Employees should expect that any information created, transmitted,
downloaded, exchanged, or discussed in public online forums or social media or
social networking sites may be accessed by the city at any time without prior
notice.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.102 HOURS OF WORK.
   (A)   The city shall establish the standard workday, workweek, and starting
and quitting times for each department, taking into account current and
anticipated workloads, public service needs, and other factors. The standard
workweek will be based upon a 35-hour workweek, with the exceptions of the
Police Department and Fire Department, in accordance with state statute. No
established schedule shall be construed as a guarantee of work hours or as a
restriction of the city’s right to restructure the workday or workweek.
   (B)   Records will be maintained showing which hours were worked each day by
all employees of the city. All time records will be signed by the department
head and/or executive officer, or his or her designee. Department heads shall
keep records of his or her days worked.
   (C)   The city is open for business Monday through Friday, 52 weeks a year,
unless there is a scheduled holiday. Employees should contact his or her
department head for the hours of operation for his or her department.
   (D)   The hours of work, including the workday, workweek, and work shift,
for all employees shall be as established by the executive officer and/or
department head.
   (E)   Subject to the discretion of the city, employees may be authorized to
take break periods each full working day. Such breaks shall not interfere with
the proper performance of the employee’s work responsibilities, will be set by
the executive officer and/or department head, and are subject to change.
   (F)   Operational needs and/or emergencies, however, may necessitate the
establishment of other work hours, days, or weeks on a temporary or permanent
basis.
   (G)   Employees will be granted a non-paid lunch period, not to exceed one
hour in length.
   (H)   There are times when employees may be called into work during an
emergency. Employees who have been drinking alcoholic beverages or taking
prescription medications, and should not be driving city vehicles, and should
inform his or her supervisors at the time he or she is called.
   (I)   If it appears that a weather emergency is imminent, employees may
voluntarily contact his or her supervisors to see if his or her services are
needed.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.103 WEATHER/CIVIL EMERGENCIES.
   It is the policy of the city to provide normal services during the event of
a weather emergency to the maximum extent possible, while ensuring the greatest
possible safety to employees and citizens, and to provide the fullest
obtainable staffing levels during such an emergency.
   (A)   Critical service employees.
      (1)   Critical service employees are expected to report for his or her
regular shift assignment during a weather/civil emergency, without exception,
unless the department head has contacted employees personally, with alternate
instructions.
      (2)   Critical service employees may use personal time; however, the
request may be denied, with no recourse available to the employee except to
report to work for his or her regular shift.
   (B)   Non-critical service employees. Non-critical service employees are
expected to report for his or her regular shift assignment during a weather
emergency, unless the following occurs:
      (1)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, issues a media broadcast
statement to the contrary requiring that citizens are to remain off city
streets;
      (2)   The employee’s department head or executive officer contacts the
employee prior to the start of his or her shift with alternate instructions;
      (3)   Employees covered in the division will receive regular pay for not
reporting for work only if instructed to remain at home. If the employee
chooses to stay home by his or her choice, for whatever reason, he or she will
not be paid for the day but will be allowed to utilize accrued time;
      (4)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this policy may subject
the employee to disciplinary action as deemed appropriate by his or her
department head or executive officer; and/or
      (5)   All employees are subject to call to duty at reasonable times, and
must respond to emergency call, unless physically unable to do so.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.104 COMPUTERS, INTERNET AND EMAIL, CELLULAR PHONES.
   (A)   Intentions. The intentions for publishing an acceptable use policy are
not to impose restrictions contrary to city’s established culture of openness,
trust, and integrity. It is, however, to establish the city’s commitment to
protecting its employees, partners, and itself from illegal or damaging actions
by individuals, either knowingly or unknowingly.
      (1)   Internet/intranet-related systems, including, but not necessarily
limited to, computer equipment, software, operating systems, storage media,
network accounts, electronic mail, WWW browsing, FTP, cellular phones, pagers,
radios, and any other electronic processing equipment are the property of the
city. These systems are to be used for business purposes in serving the
interests of the city and its constituents in the course of normal operations.
      (2)   Effective security is a team effort involving the participation and
support of every city employee and affiliate who deals with information and/or
information systems. It is the responsibility of every computer user to know
these guidelines, and to conduct his or her activities accordingly.
   (B)   Acceptable use and ownership. City information technology should only
be used for conducting productive city business. Employees may access the
city’s network system remotely from a home computer, smart phone, or other
compatible devices, provided he or she is authorized by the Information
Technology Department, and comply with all applicable security procedures.
Information accessed via home computers and other compatible devices are
subject to federal and state laws and regulations, this policy, and other
company rules.
      (1)   While the city network administration desires to provide a
reasonable level of privacy, users should be aware that the data he or she
creates on the corporate systems remains the property of city. Because of the
need to protect the city network, management cannot guarantee the
confidentiality of personal information stored on any network device belonging
to city.
      (2)   Authorized individuals within the city may monitor equipment,
systems, and network traffic at any time for security, assistance, and network
maintenance purposes.
      (3)   The city reserves the light to audit networks and systems on a
periodic basis to ensure compliance with this policy.
      (4)   The city’s computer network is the property of the city and is to
be used for legitimate business purposes. Users are provided access to the
computer network to assist him or her in the performance of his or her jobs.
Additionally, certain users may also be provided with access to the internet
through the computer network. All users have a responsibility to use the city’s
computer resources and the internet in a professional, lawful, and ethical
manner. Abuse of the computer network or the internet may result in
disciplinary action, including possible termination, and civil and/or criminal
liability.
      (5)   To ensure security, avoid the spread of viruses and malware, and to
maintain the city’s internet usage policies or acceptable use policies,
employees may only access the internet through a computer attached to the
city’s network and approved internet firewall or other security device(s).
Bypassing the city’s computer network security by accessing the internet
directly by personal connections, such as, but not limited to, cellular
networks, Wifi, wireless routers, modems, proxy avoidance techniques, or by any
other means is strictly prohibited.
      (6)   Files obtained from sources outside the city, including disks,
flash drives, files downloaded from the internet, newsgroups, bulletin boards,
or other online services; files attached to email; and files provided by
customers or vendors, may contain dangerous computer viruses that may damage
the city’s computer network. Users should never download files from the
internet, accept email attachments from outsiders, or use disks from non-city
sources without first scanning the material with the Information Technology
Department-approved virus checking software. Employees who suspect that a virus
has been introduced into the city’s network should notify the Information
Technology Department immediately.
   (C)   Security and proprietary information.
      (1)   Expectation of privacy. Employees are given computers and internet
access to assist them in the performance of their jobs. Employees should have
no expectation of privacy in anything he or she creates, stores, posts, sends,
or receives using the city’s technology equipment. The computer network is the
property of the city and may be used only for city purposes.
      (2)   Waiver of privacy rights. Users expressly waive any right of
privacy in anything he or she creates, stores, posts, sends, or receives using
the city’s computer equipment or internet access. Users consent to allow IT
personnel access to and review of all materials he or she has created, stored,
sent, or received through any city network or internet connection.
      (3)   Monitoring of computer and internet usage. The city has the right
to monitor, log, and archive any and all aspects of its computer system,
including, but not necessarily limited to, monitoring internet sites visited by
users, monitoring chat and newsgroups, monitoring file downloads, and all
communications sent and received by users via email, IM, and chat and social
networking, and cellular phone calls and text messages.
      (4)   Blocking sites with inappropriate content. The city has the right
to utilize hardware and software that makes it possible to identify and block
access to internet sites containing sexually explicit or other material deemed
inappropriate in the workplace.
      (5)   Blocking sites with non-productive content. The city has the right
to utilize hardware and software that makes it possible to identify and block
access to internet sites containing non-work-related content such as, but not
necessarily limited to, drug abuse; hacking; illegal or unethical use or
content; discrimination; violence; proxy avoidance; plagiarism; child abuse;
alternative beliefs; adult materials; advocacy organizations; gambling;
extremist groups; nudity and risque; pornography; tasteless; weapons; sexual
content; sex education; alcohol; tobacco; lingerie and swimsuits; sports;
hunting; war games; online gaming; freeware and software downloads; file
sharing and offsite storage; streaming media; peer-to-peer file sharing;
internet radio or TV; internet telephony; online shopping; malicious websites;
phishing; spam; advertising; brokerage and trading; web-based personal email;
entertainment; arts and culture; education; health and wellness; job search;
medicine; news and media; social networking; political organizations;
reference; religion; travel; personal vehicles; dynamic content; folklore; web
chat; instant messaging or IM; newsgroups and message boards; digital
postcards; education; real estate; restaurant or dining; personal websites or
blogs; content servers; domain parking; personal privacy; finance and banking;
search engines and portals; government and legal organizations; web hosting;
secure sites; or web-based applications.
   (D)   Acceptable use.
      (1)   Individuals are required to keep network and email passwords secure
and should not share accounts or passwords. Authorized users are responsible
for the security of his or her passwords and accounts.
      (2)   All information systems (laptops, phones, workstations, and
servers) may be secured with a password-protected screensaver with the
automatic activation feature set at 15 minutes or less, by manual log-off or
locking system (control-alt-delete) when system is unattended.
      (3)   All systems used and connected to the city network, whether owned
by the employee, city, or consultant, shall be armed with approved virus-
scanning software and current virus definitions. This includes situations where
a virtual private network connection is established and a user gains access to
city network resources.
      (4)   Employees should use caution when opening email attachments
received from unknown senders, which may contain viruses, email bombs, or
Trojan horse code. If uncertain, delete email or contact the City System
Administrator.
      (5)   Occasional, limited appropriate personal use of the computer is
permitted if such use does not:
         (a)   Interfere with the user’s or another employee’s job performance;
         (b)   Have an undue effect on the computer’s or city network’s
performance; and
         (c)   Violate any other policies, provisions, guidelines, or standards
of this agreement or any other of the city.
   (E)   Unacceptable use. The following activities are prohibited. If
required, employees may be exempted from these restrictions during the course
of his or her job responsibilities, following written approval from his or her
department supervisor or the IT Director.
      (1)   Illegal activities. Under no circumstances is an employee of city
authorized to engage in any activity that is illegal under local, state, or
federal law, while utilizing a city-owned resource. The lists below are by no
means all inclusive, but attempt to provide a framework for activities that
fall into the category of unacceptable use.
      (2)   System and network activities.
         (a)   Violations of the rights of any person or company protected by
copyright, patent, or other intellectual property, or similar laws or
regulations, including, but not limited to, the installation or distribution of
“pirated” or other software products that are not appropriately licensed for
use by the city.
         (b)   Use of unauthorized copying of copyrighted material, including,
but not limited to, digitization and distribution of photographs from
magazines, books, or other copyrighted sources, copyrighted music, and the
installation of any copyrighted software for which city or the end user does
not have an active license, is strictly prohibited.
         (c)   Introduction of malicious programs into the network or server
(e.g., viruses, worms, Trojan horses, and the like).
         (d)   Malicious acts to delete or remove valuable city government
information.
         (e)   Installing software on city computing devices operated within
the city network. Software requests must first be approved by the requester’s
manager, and then be made to the Information Technology Department in writing
or via email.
         (f)   Revealing one’s account password to others or allowing use of
one’s account by others.
         (g)   Using a city computing asset to actively engage in procuring or
transmitting material that is in violation of sexual harassment or hostile
workplace laws.
         (h)   Making fraudulent offers of products, items, or services
originating from any city account.
         (i)   Causing a security breach or a disruption of network
communication. Breaches include, but are not limited to, accessing data of
which the employee is not an intended recipient. “Disruption” includes, but is
not necessarily limited to, network sniffing, port scanning, packet spoofing,
denial of service attacks, and other malicious activities.
         (j)   Circumventing user authentication or security of any host,
network, or account.
         (k)   Providing information about or lists of employees to parties
outside of city staff.
         (l)   Using the city’s computer network to disseminate, view, or store
commercial or personal advertisements, solicitations, promotions, destructive
code (e.g., viruses, Trojan horse programs, and the like), or any other
unauthorized materials.
         (m)   Illegally copying material protected under copyright law or
making that material available to others for copying. Employees are responsible
for complying with copyright law and applicable licenses that may apply to
software, files, graphics, documents, messages, and other material he or she
wishes to download or copy. Employees may not agree to a license or download
any material for which a registration fee is charged without first obtaining
the express written permission of his or her supervisor.
         (n)   Attempting to access or accessing another user’s account,
private files, or email, or misrepresenting oneself as another individual in
electronic communication.
         (o)   At all times, users are responsible for the professional,
ethical, and lawful use of the computer system. Personal use of any device is a
privilege that may be revoked at any time.
         (p)   To install software, upgrade hardware, attach unauthorized
hardware or media, or change configurations on computers, networks, or systems.
         (q)   To attempt to power down or up any server or network device.
         (r)   To stream audio, video, or real-time applications (such as stock
ticker, weather monitoring, internet radio, or streaming video).
         (s)   To give any subcontractor, consultant, or other non-employee
access to the city’s information technology without express consent.
         (t)   To knowingly introduce worms, viruses, or other malicious
programs into the network or server.
         (u)   To engage in personal business activity.
         (v)   To attempt to test, modify, circumvent, or defeat security or
auditing systems of the city or any other organization without prior
authorization.
      (3)   Email and communications activities.
         (a)   Sending unsolicited email messages, including “junk mail”, spam,
or chain letters, as well as advertising material to individuals who did not
request such material.
         (b)   Any form of harassment via email, telephone, or paging, whether
through language, frequency, or size of messages.
         (c)   Solicitation of email for any other email address, other than
that of the poster’s account, with the intent to harass or to collect replies.
         (d)   Personal use of email account, including:
            1.   Registering for personal sites or services whereby the account
receives messages that are not utilized for city use; and
            2.   Communication with other entities outside of the city that is
unrelated to city business.
      (4)   Blogging.
         (a)   Unless it is in the course of business duties, posting to
newsgroups or blogging from a city email address should contain a disclaimer,
stating that the opinions expressed are strictly those of the employee and not
necessarily those of the city.
         (b)   Blogging by employees, whether using the city IT systems or
personal computer, is also subject to the terms and restrictions set forth in
this policy. Posting should be done in a professional and responsible manner
that is not detrimental to city’s best interests, and does not interfere with
an employee’s regular work duties.
         (c)   Employees are prohibited from revealing any confidential or
proprietary information, trade secrets, or any other material as covered by the
city confidentiality policy.
         (d)   Employees are prohibited from making any discriminatory,
disparaging, defamatory, or harassing comments when blogging or engaging in any
conduct prohibited by the city.
         (e)   Employees may also not attribute personal statements, opinions,
or beliefs to the city when engaged in blogging. If an employee is expressing
his or her beliefs and/or opinions in blogs, the employee may not, expressly or
implicitly, represent himself or herself as an employee or representative of
the city. Employees assume any and all risks associated with blogging.
         (f)   Apart from following all laws pertaining to the handling and
disclosure of copyrighted or export-controlled materials, city trademarks,
logos, and any other intellectual property may also not be used in connection
with any blogging activity.
      (5)   Frivolous use. Computer resources are limited. Network bandwidth
and storage capacity have finite limits, and all users connected to the network
have a responsibility to conserve these resources. As such, users must not
deliberately perform acts that waste computer resources or unfairly monopolize
resources to the exclusion of others. Any files/documents found to be in
violation may be removed by the information technology staff without
notification at any time. These acts include, but are not necessarily limited
to:
         (a)   Sending mass mailings or chain letters;
         (b)   Spending excessive amounts of time on the internet, playing
games, engaging in online chat groups, or other social media;
         (c)   Uploading or downloading large files;
         (d)   Accessing streaming audio and/or video files or otherwise
creating unnecessary loads on network traffic associated with non-business-
related uses of the internet; and
         (e)   Storing personal pictures, music, or videos on the city’s
servers.
   (F)   Portable electronics.
      (1)   Cellular phones. Cellular phones are the property of the city and
are loaned to employees to conduct city business. The equipment, minutes,
applications, and air time are all purchased by the city and therefore must not
be abused for personal use. The following list outlines unacceptable cellular
phone usage:
         (a)   Personal calls made or received on a city-issued cell phone must
be kept to a minimum;
         (b)   Exchanging excessive personal text messages or instant messages
during work hours;
         (c)   Installing applications or other software on the device without
express approval from the Information Technology Department;
         (d)   Utilizing video, music, pictures, and internet for any
activities not related to city business;
         (e)   Transferring personal calls and number to the city-issued phone;
and
         (f)   Any expense, such as purchasing apps, music, messaging, or
excess personal use, that results in additional expenses in city billing
statements will be expected to be paid by the employee.
      (2)   Laptops. Laptops and portable devices owned by the city may be
issued by the Information Technology Department. Since they are mobile and may
connect to various other networks, it is the user’s responsibility to securely
utilize the device and verify the virus definitions are up-to-date. The use of
laptops improves convenience so that the user may perform city-related business
outside of his or her designated office area. All internet browsing and use
must be in accordance with acceptable use policy. Only the employee may use the
equipment and shall not allow contractors, friends, relatives, or others to use
the device without the consent of the employee’s supervisor.
      (3)   Tablets. Devices such as tablets, iPads, and the like must be used
in accordance with the acceptable use policy.
   (G)   Enforcement. Any employee found to have violated this policy may be
subject to disciplinary action, which may include termination of employment.
§ 36.105 HANDLING CITIZENS’ QUESTIONS AND COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All citizens should be treated with respect and courtesy. Employees
should not engage in arguments, debates, or lengthy discussions with private
citizens regarding the city’s policies, procedures, or services.
   (B)   Any employee who feels he or she cannot resolve the complaint from a
private citizen should refer that individual to his or her department head.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.106 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Employees shall not participate in any partisan or non-partisan
political activity while on-duty or off-duty in a uniform required by, used by,
or identified with any department of city government.
   (B)   Employees may not use municipal vehicles for any partisan or non-
partisan political activities.
   (C)   Any municipal employee found violating any provisions of this policy
is subject to reprimand, suspension, or dismissal from city employment.
   (D)   Employees may use paid time off to engage in political or civic
activities.
   (E)   Employees may be granted unpaid personal leave to engage in political
or civic activities.
   (F)   Employees pursuing his or her own interests shall not use the city
name, trademarks, logos, phone number, stationery, or other resources except to
the extent required or permitted by his or her job responsibilities.
   (G)   The city may require employees to remove any political material from
his or her work space, clothing, or property on the city’s premises that
disrupts the workplace.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
WAGES AND HOURS
§ 36.120 PAYROLL.
   (A)   Payroll is paid on a bi-weekly basis. All deductions shall be made in
accordance with applicable state and federal law.
   (B)   All non-elected office personnel will be required to maintain a time
sheet. All time sheets must be authorized and signed by the executive officer
or the department head.
   (C)   Straight time will be paid to hourly employees, 40 hours or less per
workweek. Employees will be paid straight time pay for hours worked in excess
of 35 hours until he or she reaches 40 hours for such week.
   (D)   Police and fire should review their standard operating rules to
determine overtime rules. (For purposes of calculating overtime holidays will
be included as time worked.)
   (E)   Work performed by all hourly employees in excess of 40 hours per week
will be considered overtime and will be paid at the rate of time and one-half
the employee’s regular rate of pay for hours actually worked over 40 hours.
(For purposes of calculating overtime, holidays will be included as time
worked.)
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 36.121 DIRECT DEPOSIT.
   (A)   All employees of the city are required to have his or her payroll
check direct deposited into a personal account held at a banking institution of
his or her choice.
   (B)   Prior to receiving a paycheck, an employee must provide a direct
deposit form to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office for processing.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.122 OVERTIME.
   (A)   Elected officials, department heads, and any other exempt employees
are not eligible for overtime pay.
   (B)   Any employee, regardless of classification, may be required to work in
excess of the normal workday or workweek to meet operational demands. Overtime
will be paid under the guidelines set out by the FLSA (Fair Labor Standards
Act), being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq. Eligibility for overtime shall be based
upon all hours in “active pay status”.
   (C)   Overtime is generally discouraged and is usually performed only when
the supervisor determines it is necessary. All overtime must be approved by the
employee’s supervisor in advance, except in unusual or emergency situations.
   (D)   Exempt employees are not subject to the overtime payment requirements
of the FLSA due to the nature of his or her work. These employees are expected
to have flexible working hours, which may exceed eight hours in a day. These
individuals should not expect to receive overtime pay or formal compensatory
time for such.
   (E)   Non-exempt employees of the city (see provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act (FLSA) shall receive overtime pay (or compensatory time off in
lieu of overtime payment) for all time authorized and actually worked in excess
of 40 hours per week at a rate of one and one-half times the employee’s hourly
base rate of pay. (For purposes of calculating overtime holidays will be
included as time worked.)
   (F)   Non-exempt employees of the city may alternatively decide, per
agreement between city and employee, to receive compensatory time off for
overtime hours worked in lieu of overtime.
   (G)   Upon termination of employment, the non-exempt employee is entitled to
receive payment for accrued and unused compensatory time at the regular hourly
wage rate in effect at the date of termination.
   (H)   Police and Fire Departments should refer to their policies concerning
overtime. (For purposes of calculating overtime holidays will be included as
time worked.)
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013; Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 36.123 COMPENSATORY TIME.
   (A)   Elected officers, the executive officer, and department heads are not
eligible for compensatory time.
   (B)   Any employee who agrees to receive compensatory time off in lieu of
overtime must complete a compensatory time agreement form. The department head
should contact the executive officer’s office to get a comp time agreement
form.
   (C)   Compensatory time should be kept to a minimum.
   (D)   Non-exempt employees of the city (see provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act - FLSA) shall receive compensatory time off in lieu of overtime
payment for all time authorized and actually worked in excess of their regular
time worked within a week at a rate of one and one-half times the employee’s
hourly base rate of pay. (For purposes of calculating overtime holidays will be
included as time worked.)
   (E)   Non-exempt employees can take compensatory time off after a proper
request has been submitted and approved by the employee’s supervisor or
department head. Compensatory time is encouraged to be used within six months
from the pay period in which it was accrued. In cases where the compensatory
time off cannot be scheduled within the six months, he or she will be granted
the time off as soon as possible.
   (F)   (1)   The city may, at any time, choose to pay out all or part of the
compensatory time to an employee.
      (2)   The employee may, at any time, request to have all or part of his
or her accumulated compensatory time paid to him or her.
      (3)   All accrued compensatory time over an amount equal to the
employee's regularly scheduled workweek, may be paid to the employee during the
month of June and December of each calendar year, subject to budgetary
considerations.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013; Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020; Ord. 2023-12,
passed 5-10-2023)
§ 36.124 EMERGENCY CALL OUT.
   (A)   If a non-exempt employee is called in to work during an emergency, he
or she shall be compensated for a minimum of two hours.
   (B)   If a non-exempt full-time employee is called in to work during an
emergency, he or she shall be compensated rate of one and one-half times the
employee’s regular rate of pay.
   (C)   Emergency call outs during approved scheduled vacation or personal
days by the department supervisor or designee shall be paid to non-exempt
(hourly) employees at the rate of one and one-half times the employee’s regular
rate of pay.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 36.125 FLEXTIME.
   (A)   The city may utilize “time-off” or flexible hours in order to avoid
having employees work in excess of 40 hours in a workweek.
   (B)   The department head must approve flextime scheduling.
   (C)   Flextime is paid as time for time.
   (D)   Flextime must be taken within a 40-hour pay period, if possible.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.126 PENSION PLAN.
   (A)   All full-time employees are covered by the state’s Public Retirement
System (INPRS). Membership will become automatic upon employment. Employees are
required by state law to contribute 3% of his or her gross wages (regular and
overtime pay) to his or her annuity saving account.
   (B)   See INPRS policy for further details.
   (C)   Police and fire officers are under plans as approved by the state.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.127 GARNISHMENTS.
   (A)   A court-ordered legal claim against the wages of an employee by a
creditor for nonpayment of a debt by legal authority is a garnishment, and
shall be recognized and executed by the city.
   (B)   When a garnishment is received for an employee, the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office will notify the employee.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
HOLIDAYS, VACATIONS, LEAVES
§ 36.140 HOLIDAYS.
   All full-time employees are entitled to paid holidays (subject to change
yearly).
   (A)   Paid holidays shall be determined on an annual basis by the Mayor and
announced late in the prior year.
   (B)   Any hourly full-time employee who is called in or scheduled to work on
Christmas or Thanksgiving shall be compensated at one and one-half times his or
her regular rate of pay for all hours worked.
   (C)   In observance of each authorized holiday, full-time and part-time
employees will normally be granted the day off from work. Only full-time
employees shall receive straight time holiday pay for each authorized holiday.
Due to the emergency areas covered by the city, some areas are required to work
holidays.
   (D)   If a holiday occurs while an employee is on vacation, that vacation
day will not be charged against his or her vacation leave.
   (E)   Employees must be in a paid status the day before and the day after a
holiday in order to be paid for the holiday.
   (F)   An employee scheduled to return from a non-paid leave on the day after
a holiday will not be paid for the holiday. An employee whose leave without pay
is approved through the end of the last business day preceding a holiday is
also presumed to be on leave during the holiday, and will not receive
compensation for the holiday.
   (G)   For members of the Greenfield Police Department who work a full 12-
hour shift on New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, and
Thanksgiving Day, they shall be compensated with a “floating holiday” of 12
hours for each such holiday worked, which floating holiday must be taken during
the same calendar year in which it is earned and cannot be carried over to the
next calendar year. Members of Greenfield Police Department shall not receive
compensation at one and one-half, times his or her regular rate of pay for
hours worked on Thanksgiving Day regardless of other provisions contained
within this section in lieu of receiving a floating holiday. Any and all
floating holidays must be taken as one continuous 12-hour period and may not be
broken up into smaller hourly increments. Members of Greenfield Police
Department shall not be permitted to have more than two unused floating
holidays accumulated at anyone time.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013; Ord. 2022-17, passed 5-25-2022)
§ 36.141 VACATION LEAVE.
   (A)   A full-time employee shall be entitled to annual vacation leave with
pay according to length of service and vacation benefit.
      (1)   Upon the first anniversary, the employee will receive five days of
vacation.
      (2)   On January 1 of two years of employment through five years of
employment, the employee will receive ten days of vacation per year.
      (3)   On January 1 of six years of employment through 14 years of
employment, the employee will receive 15 days of vacation per year.
      (4)   On January 1 of 15 years of employment through 19 years of
employment, the employee will receive 20 days of vacation per year per year.
      (5)   On January 1 of 20 years of employment, the employee will receive
25 days of vacation per year thereafter.
   (B)   Employees begin earning vacation leave on their hire date.
   (C)   Vacation leave is credited for all continuous service in active pay
status. Vacation leave is not earned while an employee is in a non-paid status
(i.e., leave of absence without pay, disciplinary suspensions, and disability
leave under unpaid family and medical leave).
   (D)   Vacations are scheduled in accordance with workload requirements of
the individual department or office. For this reason, it is essential that
vacation requests be made at least one week in advance of the proposed starting
date. The executive officer, his or her designee, and department heads have the
authority to approve or deny vacation requests.
   (E)   Vacations cannot be carried over to the following year, unless
approved by the Board, with the following exception: because some employees are
hired late in the year, vacation leave can be carried over into the first 90
days of the following year after his or her first anniversary only.
   (F)   If an employee resigns and leaves in good standing on or after January
2 of that year, after giving proper notice, he or she will be paid for any
unused vacation days.
   (G)   (1)   Vacation day accruement for firefighters working 24-hour shifts
shall be as follows:
 
After 1 year   3 days
After 5 years  6 days
After 10 years 9 days
After 15 years 12 days
After 20 years 15 days
 
      (2)   For firefighters working an administrative schedule, vacation day
accruement shall be as follows:
 
After 1 year   5 days
After 2 years  10 days
After 6 years  15 days
After 15 years 20 days
After 20 years 25 days
 
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.142 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   (A)   Bereavement leave must be arranged with the executive officer, his or
her designee, and/or the department head through a written request. This must
be done as soon as practical. The request must be executed by the employee. It
must state the relationship between the deceased and the employee and the
length of time needed for the requested absence.
   (B)   All regular full-time city employees, police command staff, and
firefighters working administrative shifts will be granted:
      (1)   Paid leave of up to five work days in the event of the death of the
employee’s:
         (a)   Spouse;
         (b)   Child;
         (c)   Stepchild;
         (d)   Parent; or
         (e)   Individuals living within the home for whom the employee has
legal guardianship.
      (2)   Paid leave of up to three work days in the event of the death of
the employee’s:
         (a)   Mother-in-law or father-in-law;
         (b)   Stepparent or corresponding in-laws;
         (c)   Sibling and corresponding in-laws;
         (d)   Great grandparent, grandparent, or corresponding in-laws;
         (e)   Grandchild or step-grandchild;
         (f)   Half-sibling or corresponding in-laws;
         (g)   Aunt, uncle, or corresponding in-laws;
         (h)   Niece, nephew, or corresponding in-laws; or
         (i)   Other residents of the household of the employee.
   (C)   Firefighters working 24-hour shifts will be granted:
      (1)   Paid leave of up to three work days in the event of the death of
the employee’s:
         (a)   Spouse;
         (b)   Child;
         (c)   Stepchild;
         (d)   Parent; or
         (e)   Individuals living within the home for whom the employee has
legal guardianship.
      (2)   Paid leave of one work day in the event of the death of the
employee’s:
         (a)   Mother-in-law or father-in-law;
         (b)   Stepparent or corresponding in-laws;
         (c)   Sibling and corresponding in-laws;
         (d)   Great grandparent, grandparent, or corresponding in-laws;
         (e)   Grandchild or step-grandchild;
         (f)   Half-sibling or corresponding in-laws;
         (g)   Aunt, uncle, and corresponding in-laws;
         (h)   Niece, nephew, and corresponding in-laws; or
         (i)   Other residents of the household of the employee.
   (D)   Police officers who work 12-hour shifts should refer to their SOPs for
their allotment of bereavement days.
   (E)   In the event of the death of a family member not listed, an employee
should use personal time.
   (F)   If the employee is on FMLA leave, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 2611 et seq., or
military leave at the time of the family member’s passing, he or she will not
be compensated for the bereavement days.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.143 COURT LEAVE.
   (A)   If an employee is called for court jury duty or subpoenaed to testify
in a court of law during any portion of the employee’s regular scheduled
working day, that employee shall continue to receive his or her full city pay,
but any compensation received for jury duty will be submitted to the Clerk-
Treasurer for credit to the proper city account.
   (B)   The employee must provide the executive officer, his or her designee,
and/or department head written documentation of court appearance/jury duty.
   (C)   The employee will be expected to report for work following jury duty
if a reasonable amount of time (two hours or more) remains during his or her
scheduled workday. If any employee is called for court jury duty or subpoenaed
to testify in a court of law, outside of his or her regularly scheduled working
hours, all compensation received for that court service shall be retained by
the employee.
   (D)   The city will not reimburse employees when appearing in court for
criminal or civil cases, when the case is being heard in connection with the
employee’s personal matters, such as traffic court, divorce proceedings,
custody, appearing as directed with a juvenile, and the like, unless the
employee utilizes unused vacation, personal, or compensatory time.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.144 PERSONAL TIME OFF (PTO).
   (A)   Starting on the date of hire, all full-time regular employees will
receive one personal time off (PTO) day for each month of employment for a
maximum of ten days. Full-time firefighters will receive one-half PTO day for
each month of employment for a maximum of five days.
   (B)   On January 2, following the full-time employee’s hire date, and every
year of employment thereafter, he or she shall receive ten PTO days.
   (C)   On January 2, after the firefighter’s employment date and every year
of employment thereafter, he or she shall receive five PTO days.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided under division (D)(1) below, all full-
time regular employees may utilize a maximum of 15 PTO days per year, as
needed, without written documentation.
      (1)   Employees may utilize additional PTO days in excess of the 15 day
maximum upon providing the employee’s department head with written
documentation of the reason for such PTO usage. Acceptable reasons for
exceeding the 15 day maximum include the following:
         (a)   A sick child, injured child, or hospitalized child;
         (b)   Employee illness, injury, or hospitalization;
         (c)   A sick spouse, injured spouse, or hospitalized spouse;
         (d)   A sick, injured, or hospitalized parent; or
         (e)   A court date or jury duty.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the following forms of written
documentation are acceptable when an employee will be absent:
         (a)   Written documentation from a healthcare provider visit; or
         (b)   Written documentation from a child’s school concerning a
student’s absence.
   (E)   As long as staffing permits, firefighters shall be permitted to take
five additional PTO days per year as needed without written documentation. To
use additional PTO days in excess of the five PTO day maximum, a firefighter
will be required to provide the department head with written documentation for
the reason of the PTO usage. Acceptable reasons for use of additional PTO days
include the following reasons:
      (1)   Sick child, injured child, or hospitalized child;
      (2)   Employee is sick, injured, or hospitalized;
      (3)   Sick spouse, injured spouse, or hospitalized spouse;
      (4)   Sick parent, injured parent, or hospitalized parent; or
      (5)   A court date or jury duty.
   (F)   For the purposes of this section, the following forms of written
documentation are acceptable:
      (1)   Written documentation of a healthcare provider visit; or
      (2)   Written documentation from a child’s school concerning student’s
absence. (Reference Fire Department General Order 5.05.)
   (G)   To the greatest extent possible, prior notice of PTO leave should be
given to the employee’s department head. When prior notice is not possible, the
employee or someone on his or her behalf shall notify the department head as
soon as possible prior to the scheduled hours of work. It is preferred that
such notice is given at least one hour prior to the employee’s starting time.
(Reference Fire Department General Order 5.05, § III.)
   (H)   At the end of each year, unused PTO days will be carried forward to
each subsequent year; provided, however, the maximum number of PTO days for a
regular employee is 100 PTO days, and the maximum number of days for a
firefighter is 50 PTO days.
      (1)   For each day accumulated in excess 100 PTO days for regular
employees, and for each day accumulated in excess of 50 PTO days for
firefighters, the city will “buy-back” the excess PTO days at the employee’s
then-current base rate of pay.
      (2)   The annual “buy-back” amount for PTO days in excess of the
applicable limit will be calculated by the Clerk-Treasurer, approved by the
Board of Public Works and Safety, and paid to the employee no later than
February of the subsequent year.
   (I)   All employees must take PTO days in a minimum of half-day increments.
   (J)   Any employee who transfers from one department or office of the city
to another shall be permitted to take his or her accumulated personal leave
with him or her.
   (K)   There is hereby created a PTO Day Donation Program, which shall
operate in accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   Prior to being eligible for the PTO day donation program, an
employee must first exhaust all of his or her personal benefit time, including
PTO days, vacation days, and compensatory time.
      (2)   If an employee is utilizing FMLA leave and becomes aware that he or
she will exhaust all personal benefit time prior to the end of such FMLA leave,
then either the employee or the employee’s department head may request PTO day
donations from fellow employees.
      (3)   When it appears that an employee will run out of benefit time, the
Human Resources Department will notify the department head (during the
employee’s last fully funded pay cycle) that the employee will exhaust all
benefit days within the next pay cycle. The Human Resources Department will
then suggest that the department head consider requesting PTO donations for the
employee. Each year an employee may donate as many PTO days to fellow employees
as he or she may desire; provided, however, no employee may donate more than
five PTO days in one year to any individual employee.
      (4)   Employees who wish to donate PTO days to other employees will be
required to complete a PTO day donation form.
      (5)   An employee may receive a maximum of 12 weeks of donated PTO days.
      (6)   Firefighters who work a 24-hour shift may only donate to other
firefighters who work a 24-hour shift. Police officers who work a 12-hour shift
may only donate to other police officers who work on a 12-hour shift.
      (7)   City employees who are not on a 12- or 24-hour shift schedule may
only donate to other city employees who are not on a 12- or 24-hour shift
schedule.
   (L)   Upon termination or resignation, unused PTO days will be forfeited.
   (M)   (1)   Any employee who retires after a minimum of 20 years of
employment with the city or is eligible for police/fire pension will receive
one day of pay for every two days of PTO he or she has remaining upon retiring.
      (2)   Example: an employee has 50 PTO days remaining at retirement he or
she will be paid for 25 of those days.
§ 36.145 MILITARY OR RESERVE SERVICE.
   (A)   Reserve training. I.C. 10-16-7 and 36-8-5-8 require that State
National Guard, Defense Corps, Naval Militia, and all U.S. Armed Forces reserve
component members be authorized up to 15 working days leave with pay per
calendar year for training purposes.
   (B)   Authorization of duty. Along with requests for such leave, employees
are required to submit the published order authorizing the military duty, or a
written statement from the appropriate military commander authorizing such
duty. Employees requesting such leave will also be required to complete the
necessary leave papers.
   (C)   Active duty. A permanent employee who is drafted or is called for
active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States, the Coast Guard, Public
Health Service, Civil Defense, or is drafted in the Merchant Marine Service
shall (in accordance with existing law) be entitled to re-employment after
honorable discharge or discharge under honorable conditions from such services,
provided the employee is physically and mentally able to do the work required,
and reports for work within 90 days of such discharge, or within 90 days after
he or she is released from hospitalization continuing after discharge for a
period of not more than one year. He or she shall be employed in the position
or a similar position to the one held at the time of entry into military
service. All salary adjustments or position upgrades shall be granted to the
employee upon reinstatement. In the event his or her former job no longer
exists, the employee shall be employed in a capacity for which he or she is
qualified at a salary comparable with the one he or she formerly received.
   (D)   Employee’s current medical insurance benefits only will continue while
employee is on active duty. Employee will not accrue vacation, personal, or
sick time during active duty.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.146 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   Leave of absence must be requested in writing and may be granted to
employees with the written approval of the Board. Leave of absence may be
granted for a period of up to six months and will be unpaid.
   (B)   During a leave of absence, the employee may retain his or her group
insurance policy, but it will be the responsibility of the employee to pay the
full group rate after 90 days. During the leave, the employee will not accrue
time, nor will he or she be eligible for any other benefits set out herein. The
employee is covered under health benefits for the first 90 days of leave.
   (C)   An employee on an approved leave must notify his or her supervisor of
his or her intent to return to work at least two weeks in advance. The city
will make every effort to place the employee in a comparable position and pay
upon his or her return to work. However, there is no guarantee of being placed
in the exact vacated position. The returning employee will be considered for
open positions available upon his or her return. The returning employee will
not be allowed to displace another employee. Failure to report for a work
assignment at the designated return date specified will result in termination,
unless an extension is requested and approved.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.147 FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (FMLA).
   (A)   FMLA. The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, enacted February 5,
1993, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 2611 et seq., allows for “eligible” employees to
request and, if approved, receive up to a total of 12 weeks of unpaid leave.
The city will calculate the leave date, based upon a rolling 12-month period,
measured backward from the date an employee uses any FMLA leave. FMLA can be
utilized for the following four circumstances:
      (1)   Because of the birth of a child of the employee and in order to
care for the child;
      (2)   Because of the placement of a child with an employee for adoption
or foster care;
      (3)   Because a spouse, parent, or child (including biological, adopted,
foster, and stepchildren) of the employee has a “serious health condition” that
requires care by the employee; or
      (4)   Because the employee suffers from a “serious health condition” that
prevents the employee from being able to perform the functions of his or her
position.
   (B)   Service member family leave program. This specifically provides that
an eligible employee may take up to 26 weeks of FMLA leave to care for a
spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin (“nearest blood relative”) who is
a covered service member.
      (1)   The service member must have a “serious illness or injury” incurred
while on active duty that may render the member unable to perform the duties of
his or her office, grade, rank, or rating and for which the member is:
         (a)   Undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy;
         (b)   An outpatient; or
         (c)   On a temporary disability retired list.
      (2)    This provision also defines several key terms, including “covered
service member”, “next of kin”, and “serious injury or illness” as it applies
to a member of the Armed Forces.
      (3)   The FMLA care-giver leave is available only during a single 12-
month period.
   (C)   Start of FMLA and sick leave. The employee will be required to start
FMLA leave at the same time he or she begins the extended sick leave.
   (D)   Eligible employee defined. An ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE is an employee that
has been on the city payroll for at least 12 months, and has worked at least
1,250 work hours during the 12 months preceding the request for leave.
   (E)   Requests. Requests are to be made in writing to the employee’s
supervisor with approvals as required.
   (F)   Notice for birth or adoption. In the case of leaves for the birth or
adoption of a child, an employee is required to provide not less than 30 days
advance notice, or as much advance notice as possible, of the intent to take
leave.
   (G)   Notice for foreseeable medical treatment. Employees seeking leave for
a foreseeable medical treatment for himself or herself or a family member must
also give 30 days notice, or as much notice as possible, and attempt to
schedule the treatment so that the leave does not unduly disrupt city
operations.
   (H)   Certification of leave. The city has the right to request that the
medical leave be properly certified by the health care provider, and the
employee is to provide such certification in a timely manner. If an employee
requests a leave to care for a family member, the certification must confirm
that this is necessary, and contain an estimate of the amount of time involved.
When intermittent medical leave is sought, the certification must recite the
anticipated dates and duration of treatment.
   (I)   Failure to return. Failure to return to work on the determined return
to work day will be considered as a resignation by the employee.
   (J)   Utilization of accumulated paid leave.
      (1)   Employees are required to utilize accumulated paid leave for all or
part of the FMLA 12-week period. Unpaid FMLA shall be authorized when all
eligible accrued paid leaves have been exhausted (personal day, vacation).
Family and medical leave and paid leave, for conditions that qualify under
FMLA, run concurrently. The entire 12-week FMLA is not in addition to the paid
leave, just any remaining portion after the paid leave time is subtracted.
      (2)   Any employee who is participating in the benefit provided through
the city of long-term disability will not be required to continue using paid
leave once he or she becomes eligible to begin receiving his or her long-term
disability payment. The employee will be required to request this exception, in
writing, at the time he or she files for FMLA.
   (K)   Insurance coverage during FMLA. Employees are entitled to maintain the
same health benefits during the FMLA. However, it is the employee’s
responsibility to make arrangements through the executive officer for his or
her portion of the contribution of monthly premiums. Should an employee fail to
return to work after his or her FMLA expires, the department head may recover
from the employee, the city’s share of health insurance premiums paid during
the period of unpaid FMLA. Insurance premiums may not be recovered if the
employee fails to return to work due to the continuation, recurrence, or onset
of a serious health condition or circumstances beyond the employee’s control.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
INSURANCE COVERAGE
§ 36.160 GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (A)   Beginning the first day of the month following hire date, a full-time
employee and his or her dependents will be eligible for coverage under the
current employee group health insurance plan. The employee’s share will be
deducted from the employee’s paycheck automatically. However, the employee will
need to read the health insurance information booklet for co-payment and
benefit information. It is not mandatory that employees enroll. However,
employees will be given the opportunity at the time of new hire, then not again
until open enrollment each year. Those employees who wish to add a spouse and/
or dependents(s) to his or her coverage may do so during open enrollment.
Newborns, new spouses, and new stepchildren must be added within the first 30
days of the birth, marriage, and the like.
   (B)   Employees, his or her spouses, or dependents who are enrolled in the
city’s group health insurance at the time of the employee’s termination from
employment (other than for gross misconduct or as the result of retirement) or
because of another qualifying event, may, unless otherwise provided by law,
elect to continue participating in the group health insurance plan through the
Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act (COBRA), being PL 99-272, 100 Stat. 82.
In addition to termination of employment (except for gross misconduct),
qualifying events include death, divorce, legal separation of marriage, and
other similar change of status (example: dependent age no longer qualifies for
coverage under the parent’s group plan). When there is a qualifying event, the
employee must notify the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office within 30 days of the
qualifying event. The city administers the COBRA and the monthly payment/
expense is paid directly to the city by the qualifying person or employee.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.161 LIFE INSURANCE.
   (A)   Beginning the first day of employment, all full-time employees shall
be enrolled in the city’s life insurance plan. This plan covers the employee
only.
    (B)   Benefits are described in detail in the booklet provided by the
current insurer.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.162 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   Employees are eligible to participate in the city’s deferred
compensation plan, under which he or she may defer a portion of the employee’s
pay.
   (B)   The rules for this plan are available from the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
§ 36.163 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
   Workers’ compensation insurance provides coverage for work-related injuries
and illnesses as required under the workers’ compensation laws of the state.
Workers’ compensation insurance covers all authorized expenses related to the
treatment of a work-related illness or injury and provides “lost time benefits”
when an employee must be absent from work on a workers’ compensation disability
leave.
   (A)   Workers’ compensation considered as FMLA leave time.
      (1)   An absence resulting from a work-related injury or illness will be
considered as FMLA leave time if the employee has worked for the city for at
least 12 months and for a minimum of 1,250 hours in the immediately preceding
calendar year (not including holidays).
      (2)   The employee will be mailed the notification that he or she is
being placed on FMLA during his or her absence from work while on workers’
compensation.
   (B)   Reporting a work-related injury or illness.
      (1)   Any illness or injury related to an employee’s work assignment must
be reported to the department head so that the necessary forms can be completed
and sent with the employee prior to evaluation and treatment, if possible. The
city will inform an injured employee of its approved medical facility at the
time of injury.
      (2)   The department head or injured employee must notify the executive
officer as soon as possible so that all claims and compensation can be
administered properly and in a timely manner.
   (C)   Compensation and benefits for an absence resulting from a work-related
injury or illness and a workers’ compensation disability leave.
      (1)   An employee injured while on duty will be paid by the city his or
her full pay starting day one of the injury. If the absence from work extends
longer than 21 calendar days, the initial seven-day waiting period will be
retroactively paid by the workers’ compensation insurance carrier. The employee
will be required to return this payment to the city.
      (2)   Employees injured while in a duty status will be paid the
difference of his or her normal straight time salary and his or her workers’
compensation insurance benefits by the city. The city will pay the employee his
or her normal (straight time) bi-weekly paycheck. The employee will then turn
the workers’ compensation check over to the city to be reimbursed for the
difference.
   (D)   Insurance coverage. Group health insurance coverage and other
insurance benefits will continue on the same basis, as coverage would have been
provided had the employee been continuously employed during the period of a
workers’ compensation disability leave, as long as the employee pays his or her
regular portion of the premium on a timely basis. Employees must arrange with
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office to pay their portion of this insurance coverage.
   (E)   Secondary job. If an employee has a secondary job and is required to
be off work from his or her primary job with the city due to a workers’
compensation injury, he or she will be prohibited from working the secondary
job until he or she is released to return to work at his or her primary job.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 8-28-2013)
CHAPTER 37: INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND MATERIALITY THRESHOLD
Section
Internal Control Standards
   
37.01   Authority and adoption
   
37.02   Purpose
   
37.03   Component one: control environment
   
37.04   Component two: risk assessment
   
37.05   Component three: control activities
   
37.06   Component four: information and communication
   
37.07   Component five: monitoring activities
Materiality Threshold
   
37.20   Purpose
   
37.21   Materiality threshold
   
37.22   Notification
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 37.01 AUTHORITY AND ADOPTION.
   (A)   I.C. 5-11-1-27 requires all state political subdivisions to adopt
minimum levels of internal control standards developed by the State Board of
Accounts, as published in the “Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions” prior to June 30, 2016.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer has reviewed and recommends adoption of the
proposed internal control standards and materiality threshold.
   (C)   The city hereby adopts the following internal control policy and
materiality threshold.
(Res. 2016-15, passed 12-14-2016)
§ 37.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this policy is to communicate the Common Council’s internal
control objectives to all employees and elected officials, and to firmly commit
the city to the 17 key principles of internal controls as established by the
State Board of Accounts.
(Res. 2016-15, passed 12-14-2016)
§ 37.03 COMPONENT ONE: CONTROL ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   Principle 1: The oversight body and management demonstrate a
commitment to integrity and ethical values.
      (1)   The city has the responsibility to establish and maintain an
adequate system of internal control and to furnish to the Common Council,
various boards and commissions, governmental agencies, creditors, and others
reliable financial information on a timely basis. An adequate system of
internal control is necessary for the city to discharge these responsibilities.
      (2)   Controls help ensure that assets are not exposed to unauthorized
access and use, transactions are properly recorded in the financial records,
and the resultant financial information is reliable. External organizations and
stakeholders of the city rely on financial information to make decisions toward
appropriations, loans and other debt, grants, and other contractual
relationships. City resources are dependent upon the system of internal
control. Auditors are required annually to report upon the adequacy of the
city’s systems for control over financial reporting and compliance per I.C. 5-
11-l-27(e). The safeguarding of city assets and the reliability that the city
and others can place upon its financial records is dependent upon the
effectiveness of the internal control process.
      (3)   As the fiscal body, the Common Council expects the city
administration to effect an internal control environment with policies and
procedures necessary to provide reasonable assurance that practices cause
effective and efficient operations, reliable financial reporting, and
compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
      (4)   The system of internal control is meant to keep the city on course
toward its mission and to minimize surprises. The system promotes efficiency,
minimizes risks of asset loss, helps ensure the reliability of financial
information, and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      (5)   Internal control is a process; a means to an end, and not an end
unto itself. The control environment is the foundation upon which all
components of internal control are based. It sets the tone for city operations.
Internal control is about people, operations, communications, and the work
environment. It is not about policies and forms, though it takes shape through
the implementation of relevant policies, procedures, and practices. Internal
control can provide reasonable assurance, but no system of control can provide
absolute assurance to the Common Council and other users of financial
information.
      (6)   The Finance Department shall be charged with:
         (a)   Conveying periodic messages of the city’s internal control
philosophy and expectations to all appropriate employees;
         (b)   Evaluating the city’s internal control system for weaknesses on
a periodic (but no less frequently than annual) basis, providing solutions to
any discovered weaknesses, and informing employees of necessary changes in
procedure;
         (c)   Working alongside the newly formed Human Resources Department to
establish a confidential reporting system for individuals to report suspected
fraud and abuse of internal control policies; and
         (d)   Working alongside the newly formed Human Resources Department to
institute procedures to address violations of policies and consequences for
violations.
   (B)   Principle 2: The oversight body oversees the entity’s internal control
system. As the fiscal body for the city, the Common Council is responsible for
setting the institutional expectations for internal control, ensuring
management is aware of the expectations, requiring the upward communications
channels are open through all levels of management, and evaluating management’s
effectiveness toward monitoring the control environment and implementing sound
control policies and procedures. As the city’s chief fiscal officer, the Clerk-
Treasurer will be the Common Council’s chief agent in implementing and managing
the internal control policies and procedures.
   (C)   Principle 3: Management establishes an organizational structure,
assigns responsibility, and delegates authority to achieve the entity’s
objectives.
      (1)   Individuals with delegated approval authority, Board appointees,
and department heads are responsible for establishing, maintaining, and
supporting a system of internal controls within their areas of responsibility,
and for creating the control environment that encourages compliance with city
policies and procedures.
      (2)   Adequate supervision is necessary to monitor that internal controls
are operating as intended, and to help ensure the reliability of accounting and
operational controls by pointing out errors, omissions, exceptions, and
inconsistencies in procedures. All staff members in leadership roles are
responsible for the application of this policy and the design, development,
implementation, and maintenance of systems of internal controls focusing on the
effectiveness of operations and the safeguarding of assets within his or her
respective areas of responsibility. All levels of management and supervision
are responsible for strengthening internal controls when weaknesses are
detected. Department managers should periodically review departmental
procedures to ensure that the general principles of internal control are being
followed.
      (3)   The Finance Department has the primary responsibility for internal
control over financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws, rules,
and regulations. The Clerk-Treasurer is the city’s chief source for information
and assistance to staff and department heads on this topic, and will make
resources available to assist in administering this policy.
      (4)   The Mayor, department heads, and Board members are responsible for
internal controls over employee recruitment, hiring, separation, promotion, job
classification, employee rights, and salary administration.
      (5)   The Clerk-Treasurer and members of the Common Council are the city
sources for information and assistance on this topic, and will make resources
available to assist in administering this policy.
      (6)   All levels of internal control are subject to examination by
external auditors who are required to report on the adequacy of internal
controls over finance and compliance. Department heads are responsible for
prompt corrective action on all internal control findings and recommendations
made by internal and external auditors. The audit process is completed only
after department heads receive the audit results and take action to correct
internal control weaknesses, improve systems, or demonstrate that management
action is not warranted. Department heads have the responsibility to ensure
that those who report to them have adequate knowledge, skills, and abilities to
function within, and contribute to, an effective internal control environment.
This includes providing access to appropriate training on topics relevant to
their job responsibilities.
   (D)   Principle 4: Management demonstrates a commitment to recruit, develop,
and retain competent individuals.
      (1)   The city employee handbook provides a roadmap for recruiting and
maintaining quality employees. Prior to employment, individuals may be subject
to pre-employment background screening. While employed full-time, employees are
entitled to a benefits package, including health insurance and certain other
post-employment benefits. The city will continue to assess the best recruitment
pools and tools for the different skill sets of skills necessary to adequately
implement and maintain quality internal controls.
      (2)   Job descriptions will be updated where necessary to reflect
internal control responsibilities and duties. Employees will be regularly
trained in internal control methods and all training will be documented in
employees’ personnel files. Employees will be regularly evaluated by his or her
supervisors on internal control duties and receive feedback on possible
improvements.
   (E)   Principle 5: Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities. Individuals are held
accountable for his or her internal control responsibilities through a
recognized structure that includes relevant job descriptions, operating
procedures, periodic reviews, regular feedback, and a progressive disciplinary
policy. Additionally, city administration seeks to address issues in specific
departments and positions through regular one-on-ones with department heads.
(Res. 2016-15, passed 12-14-2016)
§ 37.04 COMPONENT TWO: RISK ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Principle 6: Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and risk tolerances.
      (1)   Through the creation of standard operating procedures and accurate
organizational reporting charts, management conveys and identifies objectives,
missions, policies, and risk tolerances to employees.
      (2)   The Finance and/or Human Resources Departments will lead a risk
analysis of three major areas:
         (a)   The effectiveness and efficiency of operations;
         (b)   The reliability of reporting for internal and external use; and
         (c)   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
      (3)   For each category, the Finance and/or Human Resources Department
will define objectives in specific measurable terms in order to enable the
design of internal control for related risk, to increase understanding at all
levels, to assess performance, to identify what is to be achieved, who is to
achieve it, how it will be achieved, when it will be achieved, and to
incorporate external requirements.
   (B)   Principle 7: Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to risks
related to achieving the defined objectives.
      (1)   The Finance Department will identify, analyze, and respond to the
risks identified in Principle 6 by determining the following.
         (a)   How likely is the risk to occur?
         (b)   How will it impact the objective?
         (c)   Is the risk based on complex or unusual transactions?
         (d)   Is the risk based on fraud?
      (2)   Once each risk has been identified and analyzed, the Finance
Department or the Human Resources Department will work with department heads to
determine how to respond to each risk with a specific solution and action.
   (C)   Principle 8: Management considers the potential for fraud when
identifying, analyzing, and responding to risks. Management is committed to
fraud prevention by utilizing a “trust but verify” approach. The potential for
fraud, misappropriation, and outright theft are contemplated as controls are
designed for various city divisions. Fraud responses will include statutorily
required responses to fraud, including, but not limited to, I.C. 5-11-1-27(l),
relating to the report of misappropriation of funds to State Board of Accounts,
and prosecuting attorney, and I.C. 5-11-l-27(j), relating to the report of
material variances, losses, shortages, or thefts to the State Board of
Accounts. The city shall utilize a materiality threshold as outlined in §§
37.20 et seq.
   (D)   Principle 9: Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to
significant changes that could impact the internal control system. The Finance
Department, in coordination with department heads, will regularly evaluate and
adjust internal control policies in order to accommodate for the impact of
future changes, including, but not limited to, personnel changes, newly elected
or appointed officers, new programs, new technology, new laws and regulations,
and financial fluctuations.
(Res. 2016-15, passed 12-14-2016)
§ 37.05 COMPONENT THREE: CONTROL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Principle 10: Management designs control activities to achieve
objectives and respond to risks.
      (1)   The Finance Department will establish and maintain a system of
internal controls that satisfies the city’s objectives in the following
categories:
         (a)   Risks are identified and effectively managed;
         (b)   Safeguarding of city assets;
         (c)   Reliability and integrity of financial information;
         (d)   Compliance with city policy, plans, procedures, laws, and
regulations;
         (e)   Economical and efficient use of city resources; and
         (f)   Meeting established objectives and goals for city operations and
programs.
      (2)   General internal control principles for departments are:
         (a)   Separation of duties.
            1.   Duties are separated so that one person’s work routinely
serves as a check on another’s work.
            2.   No one person has complete control over more than one key
function or activity (e.g., authorizing, approving, certifying, disbursing,
receiving, or reconciling).
         (b)   Authorization and approval.
            1.   Proposed transactions are authorized when proper and
consistent with city policy and the department’s plans.
            2.   Transactions are approved by the person who has delegated
approval authority, which is usually delegated on the basis of special
competency or knowledge.
         (c)   Custodial and security arrangements.
            1.   Responsibility for physical security/custody of city assets is
separated from record keeping/accounting for those assets.
            2.   Unauthorized access to city assets and institutional data is
prevented.
         (d)   Timely and accurate review and reconciliation.
            1.   Departmental accounting records and documents are examined by
employees who have sufficient understanding of the city accounting and
financial systems to verify that recorded transactions actually took place and
were made in accordance with city policies and procedures.
            2.   Departmental accounting records and documentation are compared
with city accounting system reports and financial statements to verify their
reasonableness, accuracy, and completeness.
         (e)   Application. The general internal control principles should be
applied to all departmental operations, especially accounting records and
reports, payroll, purchasing/receiving/disbursement approval, equipment and
supply inventories, cash receipts, petty cash and change funds, billing, and
accounts receivable.
      (3)   All city systems, processes, operations, functions, and activities
are subject to evaluations of internal control systems. The results of these
evaluations provide information regarding the city’s overall system of control.
      (4)   Information must be timely and communicated in a manner that
enables people to carry out their responsibilities.
         (a)   All covered employees must be trained on internal controls
according to I.C. 5-11-1-27(g). All personnel must receive a clear message from
the city’s administration that control responsibilities are to be taken
seriously. Failure to comply with established practices will subject
individuals to the terms of disciplinary action or dismissal.
         (b)   Employees must understand his or her own roles in the internal
control system, as well as how individual activities relate to the work of
others. To this end, whenever a new budgetary unit, financial activity, and the
like is set up, the Clerk-Treasurer will provide notification to the
appropriate parties of the responsibilities incumbent on them for good business
practices and sound financial management, including reference to the principles
within this policy.
         (c)   Employees must have a means of communicating significant
information to the city’s administration.
         (d)   The city must communicate effectively with external parties,
such as auditors, creditors, contractors, suppliers, regulators, and other
stakeholders.
      (5)   Internal control is meant to keep the city focused on achieving its
mission while avoiding surprises. There is a balance between effective controls
and mission accomplishment. Costs associated with internal controls should not
exceed their benefit, nor should controls be allowed to stifle mission
effectiveness and timely action. All levels of management must assess the
costs, benefits, and risks when designing controls to develop a positive
control environment and compensate for the risks of noncompliance, loss of
assets, or unreliable reporting while accomplishing the city mission.
   (B)   Internal control policies. The following specific internal control
policies are adopted for use by city departments.
      (1)   Payroll activities.
         (a)   Salaries and wage rates are verified by the Clerk-Treasurer’s
Office, approved by the Common Council, and approved by the Board of Public
Works and Safety if a change in pay is required.
         (b)   The responsibilities for hiring, terminating, and approving
promotions are with the Board, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall verify that
adequate funds are available for preparing payroll transactions or inputting
data.
         (c)   The responsibilities for approving time sheets are segregated
from those for preparing payroll transactions or inputting data.
         (d)   Time sheets must accurately record time worked, vacation time,
comp time, personal days, holidays, sick days, and overtime in figuring each
employee’s pay.
         (e)   Payroll adjustment reports are submitted by someone outside of
the payroll process.
         (f)   Employees’ time and attendance records are approved by his or
her supervisors.
         (g)   Corrections to recorded time and attendance records are approved
by the employee and the employee’s supervisor.
         (h)   Procedures are in place to ensure that changes in employment
status are promptly reported to the payroll processing unit.
         (i)   Payroll disbursements are reviewed and approved by an authorized
individual prior to payment.
         (j)   Access to payroll applications is appropriately controlled by
user logins and passwords.
         (k)   Changes to a payroll disbursement are approved by an individual
other than the ones authorized to process the changes.
         (l)   Access to the signature stamp used to sign payroll checks is
adequately controlled.
         (m)   Employees will soon be cross-trained on the payroll process so
that those assigned to process payroll will be able to take regular vacations.
      (2)   Disbursement activities.
         (a)   The responsibility for approving claims is segregated from those
preparing the claims.
         (b)   Checks are written by an individual other than the one approving
the claim.
         (c)   Checks are signed by an individual other than the one creating
them.
         (d)   Claims for payment are reviewed and approved by Board prior to
payment, with the exception of manual claims.
         (e)   The responsibility for acknowledging the receipt of goods or
services is segregated from those preparing claims and writing checks.
         (f)   Vendor checks are accounted for in numerical order and
reconciled to the disbursement ledger.
         (g)   Invoices or other receipts are attached to each claim to support
the disbursement.
         (h)   A review is completed by another individual outside of the
disbursement process or the Clerk-Treasurer, in which the claim amount is
compared to the supporting documentation attached to the claim and the amount
of the check.
         (i)   Access to disbursement applications is appropriately controlled
by user logins and passwords.
      (3)   Receipting activities (provided enough employees, including the
Clerk-Treasurer, are available to comply).
         (a)   The responsibility for collecting money and issuing receipts is
segregated from those making the bank deposit.
         (b)   The responsibility for making bank deposits is segregated from
those preparing the monthly bank reconcilement.
         (c)   Pre-numbered receipts are issued for all money collected, and
the receipt is retained with supporting documentation.
         (d)   Receipts are reconciled to the cash receipts ledger by an
individual other than the one collecting money and issuing receipts.
         (e)   Posting of receipts to the ledger is completed by an individual
other than the one who collects money and makes the deposit.
         (f)   Receipts indicate the type of payment received (cash, check, and
the like) and this is reconciled to the make-up of the bank deposit.
      (4)   Cash activities.
         (a)   A reconcilement between the receipts ledger and the credits to
the bank account is completed monthly during the bank reconciliation process.
         (b)   A reconcilement between the disbursement ledger and the debits
to the bank account is completed monthly during the bank reconciliation
process.
         (c)   The monthly reconcilement between the cash balance and the bank
balance will be thoroughly reviewed and approved by the Clerk-Treasurer.
         (d)   Disbursements from and reimbursements to petty cash funds are
periodically reviewed by an individual other than the one responsible for
maintaining the petty cash fund.
         (e)   Petty cash funds shall be audited by the Clerk-Treasurer as
often as he or she deems necessary, and whenever a department head is replaced.
      (5)   Credit card transactions.
         (a)   The office of the Clerk-Treasurer oversees the issuance and use
of the credit cards.
         (b)   Section 30.10 specifically states the purposes for which the
credit card may be used.
         (c)   A designated person separate from disbursement process reviews
transactions listed on the credit card statements for sufficient documentation
and inclusion in claims to the Board.
   (C)   Principle 11: Management designs the political subdivision’s
information system and related control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks. The Finance Department and department heads will work with
the Information Technology Department to ensure that information technology is
used as an integral part of the internal control system. This may include, but
not be limited to:
      (1)   Setting permission such that only certain users may perform certain
tasks;
      (2)   Using technology to accomplish segregation of duties by forcing
duties to be completed by different users;
      (3)   Automating certain processes and calculations;
      (4)   Limiting the authority to access different components of various
software to employees with duties specifically related to that component;
      (5)   Prohibiting user ID and password sharing among employees;
      (6)   Restricting the authority to correct or make adjustments to records
to key employees;
      (7)   Restricting access to the payroll files (which include Excel
spreadsheets, payroll and PERF reports, and any other files contained in the
payroll file) on the computer to only those approved by the Clerk-Treasurer;
and
      (8)   Requiring the use of prescribed forms or the approval of
alternative forms.
   (D)   Principle 12: Management implements control activities through
policies. The city has an employee handbook that is updated to communicate
policies to employees. Additionally, the Finance Department regularly works
with departments and employees who handle financial transactions to recommend
and ensure best practices. All procedures are in writing and communicated
frequently to all relevant employees. Policies are available.
(Res. 2016-15, passed 12-14-2016)
§ 37.06 COMPONENT FOUR: INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION.
   (A)   Principle 13: Management uses quality information to achieve the
political subdivision’s objectives. The city strives to lead in the areas of
financial transparency and accountability. By adopting standards and investing
in systems that exceed state-mandated minimums, city management provides
employees and stakeholders with high quality information and information
systems.
   (B)   Principle 14: Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the political subdivision’s objectives. Internal
communications on internal controls are communicated through adoption of formal
policies by relevant boards and commissions and/or the legislative body, or
documented through memos from the finance, legal, or relevant department head.
Internal memos and reports are maintained to document communication.
   (C)   Principle 15: Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the entity’s objectives. Communications with the State
Board of Accounts, other state agencies, grantor agencies, and regulatory
agencies are documented by email, memos, letters, and other forms of written
correspondence. All documents are maintained in accordance with the city and
state’s record retention policies. Reports and policies are cross checked for
accuracy, relevancy, and timeliness of information.
(Res. 2016-15, passed 12-14-2016)
§ 37.07 COMPONENT FIVE: MONITORING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Principle 16: Management establishes and operates monitoring
activities to monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
      (1)   City administration monitors and evaluates compliance with internal
control policies via multiple vectors. Separation of duties, redundancy
polices, layered approval systems, monthly reports, and physical controls such
as video monitoring allow management to both review and evaluate control
systems.
      (2)   The Finance Department shall implement a system of monitoring that
includes:
         (a)   Periodic checks to determine if controls are in place and
working effectively;
         (b)   Reviewing control activities to determine if the actual
activities are in compliance with established procedures; and
         (c)   Documenting deficiencies in the internal control processes and
remediating them quickly.
      (3)   Monitoring activities will be documented by signatures, initials,
or other appropriate methods.
   (B)   Principle 17: Management remediates identified internal control
deficiencies on a timely basis. Breaches of internal controls are subject to
significant levels of internal scrutiny. If informed of a material breach of
internal controls, the Finance Department and Mayor’s office actively
investigate and address the breach and adjust policies and procedures to
prevent such breaches in the future. Once breaches are identified and
investigated, a formal or informal corrective action plan will be developed.
(Res. 2016-15, passed 12-14-2016)
MATERIALITY THRESHOLD
§ 37.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This policy is intended to comply with I.C. 5-11-1-27 and the state’s
Examiner Directive 2015-6.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, MATERIALITY THRESHOLD means an
amount of cash or other property, as uniquely determined by each political
subdivision, that, when lost, stolen, or otherwise unaccounted for, triggers an
obligation to report the material variance to the State Board of Accounts for
review. The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to establish the required
materiality threshold and reporting procedure for the city.
(Res. 2016-15, passed 12-14-2016)
§ 37.21 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of
cash or non-cash items having an estimated market value in excess of $2,500,
except for inadvertent clerical errors that are identified timely and corrected
promptly with no loss to the city, shall be the materiality threshold.
   (B)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of
cash or non-cash items that occur more than one time in a month, and the
aggregate total of which is $5,000 or more, shall be reported to the State
Board of Accounts. Exceptions shall be made for inadvertent clerical errors
that are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the city.
(Res. 2016-15, passed 12-14-2016)
§ 37.22 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   An employee shall promptly report any material irregular variance,
losses, shortages, or thefts of city funds or property, or funds or property
the city holds in trust, to his or her direct supervisor, and, as deemed
appropriate, further report to the department head. The appropriate department
head shall then notify the Mayor or the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   It will be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to report the loss to the
State Board of Accounts and the Common Council, and to maintain internal
reports of investigations or deliberations regarding any series or pattern of
irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts that, after consideration,
were not deemed material.
(Res. 2016-15, passed 12-14-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   ELECTRIC SERVICES
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER SERVICE
      
53.   UTILITY DEPOSIT POLICIES
      
54.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: ELECTRIC SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Rules and regulations
   
50.002   Service installation
   
50.003   Meter installations
   
50.004   Inoperative meters
   
50.005   Complaints
   
50.006   Payment of bills; collection charge; insufficient funds
   
50.007   Disconnection charge; reconnection
   
50.008   Damage to utility facilities
   
50.009   Customer false call-out
   
50.010   Availability fee for developers requiring on-site distribution of
facilities and connection fee for customers
   
50.011   Removal from jurisdiction of State Utility Regulatory Commission
   
50.012   Payment in lieu of taxes
   
50.013   Depreciation Fund
Residential Service (RS)
   
50.025   Availability
   
50.026   Character of service
   
50.027   Rate
   
50.028   Minimum monthly charge
   
50.029   Conditions of service
   
50.030   Energy cost adjustment tracking factor
General Service (GS)
   
50.045   Availability
   
50.046   Character of service
   
50.047   Monthly rate
   
50.048   Minimum monthly charge
   
50.049   Energy cost adjustment tracking factor
   
50.050   Conditions of service
   
50.051   Determination of billing demand
   
50.052   Power factor
Green Power Program
   
50.065   Availability
   
50.066   Character of service
   
50.067   Monthly rate
   
50.068   Maximum monthly purchase
   
50.069   Conditions of service
   
50.070   Minimum monthly charges
   
50.071   Metering
   
50.072   Terms and conditions of service
   
50.073   Rate adjustment
Net Metering
   
50.074   Availability
   
50.075   Character of service
   
50.076   Monthly rate
 
Electric Vehicle Charging Station
   
50.105   Availability
   
50.106   Character of service
   
50.107   Rate
Security Lighting (SL)
   
50.120   Availability
   
50.121   Character of service
   
50.122   Rate
   
50.123   Extra charges
   
50.124   Billing
Industrial Service (IS)
   
50.135   Availability
   
50.136   Character of service
   
50.137   Monthly rate
   
50.138   Minimum monthly charge
   
50.139   Determination of billing demand
   
50.140   Power factor
   
50.141   Energy cost adjustment tracking factor
Peak Management Credits
   
50.155   Availability
   
50.156   Credits
Municipal Street Lighting (ML)
   
50.170   Availability
   
50.171   Character of service
Non-recurring Charges
   
50.185   Schedule of non-recurring charges
GENERAL
§ 50.001 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations for the use of electricity and
protection of equipment shall be in force.
   (A)   Customers shall make written application for service at the customer
service office through a customer support representative at least 24 hours
prior to the time service is required, specifying in the application the
location and kind of service required.
   (B)   Customers, moving or in any manner changing the location or nature of
the service, shall notify a customer support representative at once of such
change, and any new customer desiring service at such vacated or changed
location shall immediately make application for service at such location.
   (C)   The Manager for the city’s power and light utility shall locate the
point of service entrance and the location of the meter, which shall be as
close as possible under the circumstances to the city’s service lines.
   (D)   No meter shall hereafter be located inside any residence or in any
other building or structure where such meter will not be plainly visible and at
all times accessible to the Manager of the city’s power and light utility, and
at a height it can be easily read from the floor. All meters installed prior to
the enactment of this chapter may be changed by agreement with the customer.
   (E)   When service to any customer is discontinued, by reason of such
customer having vacated the location served or on account of delinquency in the
payment of any charge against such customer, and in the judgment of the Manager
of the city’s power and light utility the service entrance of the meter at such
location is inconveniently or improperly located, service shall not be
restored, continued, or renewed at such location until such service entrance or
meter is relocated or changed to a place designated by the Manager of the
city’s power and light utility.
   (F)   Whenever any new service entrance is located or changed, or any meter
is installed or its location changed, each installation shall be made with a
type of cable and in such boxes or receptacles that can be sealed so that such
meter cannot in any manner be tampered with, wired around, or in any other
manner interfered with to prevent its registering the correct amount of current
passing through.
   (G)   (1)   No customer shall be hereafter connected or reconnected for
service by the electric utility or entitled to receive electricity from that
Department until such customer shall apply at the customer support office hours
for such service, pay all delinquencies, if any, standing against such
customer, and make a deposit with such customer support representative
according to the class of service desired, as follows:
         (a)   For residence connection, two months estimated electrical bill,
but in no event less than $25;
         (b)   For office connection, two months estimated electrical bill, but
in no event, less than $25; or
         (c)   For power connection, two months estimated electrical bill, but
in no event less than $25.
      (2)   The deposit shall be held and retained by the Utility Cashier (Ut)
for the use and benefit of such customer, and shall be returned to the customer
with interest at the rate of 3% per annum from the time of deposit whenever the
customer shall discontinue the use of such service, after deducting therefrom
any amount that may be owing by the customer to the city as a charge for such
service. No interest shall be paid on deposits held less than six months.
   (H)   No customer shall be permitted to resell the current furnished to him
or her at a higher rate than billed to him or her.
   (I)   (1)   The meters furnished to measure and register the current
furnished to customers are the absolute property of the city and moving,
altering, tampering with, connecting, or disconnecting such meters or meter
equipment, or connection, or in any manner rendering the same inaccessible or
difficult to read by the Manager of the city’s power and light utility or
authorized employees of the city’s power and light utility, is prohibited.
      (2)   Authorized employees or representatives of the city shall have the
right of access to its meters or meter equipment at all reasonable hours for
the purposes of inspecting, testing, or reading the same.
   (J)   The city shall have the right to discontinue service for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   While making repairs or alterations to the system or any part
thereof;
      (2)   Breakdown in the generating or distributing system;
      (3)   Nonpayment of bills when due;
      (4)   Interfering or tampering with equipment, appliances, meters, or
connections;
      (5)   Failure on the part of any customer to comply with these rules; and
      (6)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Manager of the city’s power and
light utility, the wiring in or on customer’s premises is in such condition as
to be dangerous.
(Prior Code, § 30.08) (Ord. 1960-10, passed 6-1-1960; Ord. 2019-25, passed on
5-13-2020)
§ 50.002 SERVICE INSTALLATION.
   The city’s power and light utility shall place all services from its pole
line to the attachments on customer’s buildings or structures, or other point
designated by the city. The customer shall furnish proper entrance therefor as
described in the rules and regulations of the Electric Department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 30.04) (Ord. 1961-11, passed 3-22-1961; Ord. 2019-25, passed on
5-13-2020)
§ 50.003 METER INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   All meters shall be the property of the city, and shall be installed
by and under the control of the city, but the customer shall furnish the place
for the meter as specified and described in the rules.
   (B)   No person shall move, tamper with, connect, or disconnect such meter
or meter equipment.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined not more
than $300 for each offense.
(Prior Code, §§ 30.05, 30.99) (Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.004 INOPERATIVE METERS.
   When a meter is not recording within the limits of accuracy established by
the utility or a billing error has occurred, then adjustments to prior billings
may be made for the period that is the shorter of:
   (A)   To the extent it is ascertainable, the period of time during which
such inaccuracy or billing error occurred; or
   (B)   One year prior to the date on which the inaccuracy or billing error
was discovered.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.005 COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints as to the amount of bills or reading must be filed by the
customer at the office of the Billing Department before the bill becomes
delinquent. No credit shall be given on any bill because of any defect,
trouble, or insufficiency of the lines or wiring in the building or other
structure of the customer. However, if such customer presents a reasonable
excuse for not making such complaint within the time above specified, such
adjustments may be made at any time thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.006 PAYMENT OF BILLS; COLLECTION CHARGE; INSUFFICIENT FUNDS.
   (A)   Electric service bills are issued monthly. They are due upon receipt,
and are payable to the customer support representative at the customer service
office during regular office hours. All other employees of the city or utility
are expressly prohibited from receiving payments for utility bills.
   (B)   If payment is not made on or before 15 days from the date of the bill,
the account is then delinquent and the collection charge in the amount of 10%
of the first $3 of the bill plus 3% of the excess of $3 as provided in the rate
subchapter is applicable. If payment is not made within the next five days, the
customer is informed by mail that the service is subject to disconnection,
without further notice.
   (C)   In case of disconnection for nonpayment of the bill, the customer will
not be reconnected until he or she has paid the reconnection charge plus all
amounts owed to the utility, or make an arrangement for their payment which is
satisfactory to the utility.
   (D)   The utility shall not be required to restore service on the date
delinquent bills are paid unless the payment is made prior to 2:00 p.m. of this
same day. When payment of delinquent bills is made after 2:00 p.m., the service
will not be restored until after 8:00 a.m. on the next work day.
   (E)   In addition to rates for service, when it is necessary for an employee
of the electric utility to go to a customer’s premises to collect a delinquent
bill, a collection charge of $10 will be made.
   (F)   When a check that was received in payment of a customer’s account is
returned unpaid by the bank for any reason (not the fault of the electric
utility), the customer shall be assessed a handling charge of $30 for each
check returned by the bank.
(Ord. 1988-20, passed 9-8-1988; Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2007-4,
passed 6-28-2007; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.007 DISCONNECTION CHARGE; RECONNECTION.
   The electric utility may disconnect service in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the general terms and conditions for electric service,
as the same may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.008 DAMAGE TO UTILITY FACILITIES.
   If a customer causes damage to any portion of the electric utility system,
the customer shall be responsible for all costs associated with repairing or
replacing the damaged portion of the electric utility system.
(Ord. 1988-20, passed 9-8-1988; Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.009 CUSTOMER FALSE CALL-OUT.
   When a customer calls the electric utility for service restoration or
repairs on the customer’s premises and it is determined that the problem is
confined to the customer’s property or facilities (such as tripped breaker,
blown fuse, faulty wiring, and the like), a service charge of $20 may be
assessed toward the customer’s account.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.010 AVAILABILITY FEE FOR DEVELOPERS REQUIRING ON-SITE DISTRIBUTION OF
FACILITIES AND CONNECTION FEE FOR CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The electric utility is authorized to collect from subdivision
developers, prior to the installation of on-site electric distribution
facilities, the cost of said on-site distribution system extension, including,
but not limited to, overhead and underground lines, transformers, labor, and
engineering costs, but excluding the cost of individual customer service lines
and metering equipment. All funds collected as the on-site availability fee
shall be deposited into the Light Availability Fund #6307.
   (B)   The cost of the on-site distribution system extension shall be
determined by the Common Council with a listing of the cost to be published and
available to all developers or interested persons through the office of the
City Engineer and electric utility offices. The on-site availability fee of
$2,600 per lot shall be applicable to all residential subdivision developments
within the city which do not have recorded plats or have not received approval
by the Greenfield Plan Commission of its detailed unit development plat prior
to October 1, 2021. For multifamily projects and/or developments, the on-site
availability fee shall be in the amount of $2,600 per building/structure. The
on-site availability fee for any non-residential lot which does not have a
recorded plat or has not received approval by the Greenfield Plan Commission of
its detailed unit development plat prior to October 1, 2021 shall be at cost as
that is defined herein above. All funds collected as the on-site availability
fee referenced above shall be deposited into the Light Availability Fund #6307
and may be utilized for the purposes set forth herein.
   (C)   The capital costs, as determined by the Common Council, shall be
submitted by the electric utility offices by the developer prior to the
construction of the on-site electric distribution facilities.
   (D)   The Common Council hereby authorizes a fee to be paid in conjunction
with the issuance of a building permit to reimburse the electric utility for
the cost of providing the extension of service to an individual customer, which
fee shall be denominated as the "Connection Fee" in an amount established by
Ordinance No. 2023-24 and all future amendments thereto. Said Connection Fee
shall be applicable to all new customers, residential or nonresidential,
located within the city's assigned service territory after January 1, 2024.
Said connection fees may be utilized for extension of service, general capacity
upgrades, maintenance, and regulatory compliance. Said fees shall be deposited
into a fund denominated as the Light Connection Fee Fund #6308.
   (E)   The fee, as set by the Common Council, shall be paid to the electric
utility and a copy of the receipt evidencing such payment shall be submitted in
conjunction with the application for a building permit.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 1-23-1997; Ord. 2005-6, passed 4-28-2005; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-9-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 3-13-
2024)
§ 50.011 REMOVAL FROM JURISDICTION OF STATE UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The city’s electric utility shall be removed from the jurisdiction of the
State Utility Regulatory Commission for approval of rates and charges and of
the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes, or other evidence of indebtedness.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 2-14-2002; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.012 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   (A)   The city hereby elects to provide for a schedule of rates and charges
sufficient to produce a sum equal to the amount the city would have received if
the electric utility owned property were privately owned and hereby directs the
Electric Utility Comptroller to set aside a sum equal to 3% of the gross
revenues of the electric utility and to thereafter pay monthly to the Clerk-
Treasurer for deposit into the General Fund one-twelfth of the total sum deemed
sufficient to compensate the city for all sums which would ordinarily be
received were the property of the electric utility privately owned.
   (B)   The Common Council hereby determines that the schedule of rates and
charges set forth herein will provide the necessary revenue to pay the amounts
set forth above.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.013 DEPRECIATION FUND.
   There is hereby created a Depreciation Fund as required by I.C. 8-1-2-19,
denominated as the Light Depreciation Fund #6303. Deposits in the said fund
shall consist of all or a portion of net revenues of the utility after any bond
payments as authorized by the Common Council through its annual budgeting
process. Said funds may be utilized for, but not limited to, extensions,
replacements, and/or additions to the utility infrastructure and to increase
capacity.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 3-13-2024)
RESIDENTIAL SERVICE (RS)
§ 50.025 AVAILABILITY.
   This service is available at secondary voltage for general residential use
to any individually metered private or apartment dwelling located in the
electric utility service area.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.026 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   The type of service rendered under this subchapter shall be alternating
current, 60 hertz, single-phase, at a voltage of approximately 120/240 volts.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010)
§ 50.027 RATE.
   The monthly rate for this service shall be as follows:
   (A)   Commencing January 1, 2024, the customer charge shall be $15.50 per
month.
   (B)   Customer energy charge:
 
Energy charge per kWh   Subject to ECA (see § 50.030)
All kWh usage per month $0.1116
 
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-21, passed 6-8-2022; Ord. 2023-42, passed 12-13-
2023)
§ 50.028 MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGE.
   The minimum monthly charge under this subchapter shall be the customer
charge.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.029 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Service shall be provided based upon the electric utility’s rules and
regulations.
   (B)   This schedule is not available to rooming or boarding houses or to two
or more residences billed together.
   (C)   Service under this schedule shall be used only for basic residential
purposes. Energy used for other purposes shall be separately billed according
to the electric utility for the appropriate service.
   (D)   (1)   The electric utility may require corrective measures to be taken
by the customer for any motor or other apparatus which, in the opinion of the
electric utility, will cause, or is causing, unacceptable voltage fluctuation
to other customers.
      (2)   Unless otherwise determined by the electric utility, the maximum
primary voltage fluctuation will not exceed 3%.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.030 ENERGY COST ADJUSTMENT TRACKING FACTOR.
   (A)   The electric utility will update its energy cost adjustment (ECA)
tracking factor each calendar quarter based on changes in the costs of
purchased power, energy conservation/efficiency programs, payments in lieu of
taxes, and other costs specifically approved by the Common Council. The
electric utility will prepare separate tracking factors for each rate schedule
and, as appropriate, for both the demand and energy charges.
   (B)   The imbedded base costs for the calculation of future ECA tracking
factors are as follows:
 
Purchased power - Demand:                         $23.487/kW-mont h
Purchased power - Energy:                         $0.044018/kWh
(Combined demand & energy imbedded in base rates) $0.093400 /kWh
Energy conservation/efficiency:                   $0.000000/kWh
PILOT:                                            $0.000000/kWh
Other:                                            $0.000000 /kWh
 
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2023-42, passed 12-13-2023)
GENERAL SERVICE (GS)
§ 50.045 AVAILABILITY.
   This service is available at secondary voltage for general non-residential
use delivered through a single point in the electric utility service area
adjacent to existing electric distribution facilities that are adequate and
suitable for supplying the required service. Service under this schedule is
provided on a yearly basis. The schedule is not applicable as a standby
service.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.046 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   The type of service rendered under this subchapter shall be alternating
current, 60 hertz, single- or multi-phase, at a standard secondary voltage
(e.g., 120/240, 12/208, 277/480 volts), or at another secondary voltage as
mutually agreed upon in writing.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010)
§ 50.047 MONTHLY RATE.
 
Less than 50 kW demand
Consumer charge per month $30.00
Energy charge per kWH     Subject to ECA - See § 50.049
All kW useage per month   $0.1116
 
 
Greater than 50 kW and less than 1,000 kW demand
Consumer charge per month                       $85.00
Billing demand charge per kW in excess of 50 kW $16.50
Energy charge per kWh                           Subject to ECA - See §
                                                50.049
   First 30,000 kWh                          $0.1045/kWh
   Over 30,000 kWh                           $0.0715/kWh
 
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-21, passed 6-8-2022; Ord. 2023-42, passed 12-13-
2023)
§ 50.048 MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGE.
   The minimum monthly charge shall be the greatest of:
   (A)   The contract amount, if any;
   (B)   Fifty cents per connected transformer capacity (kVA) or proportional
share of transformer capacity when serving multi-services from a single
transformer bank; or
   (C)   The customer charge.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.049 ENERGY COST ADJUSTMENT TRACKING FACTOR.
   (A)   The electric utility will update its energy cost adjustment (ECA)
tracking factor each calendar quarter based on changes in the costs of
purchased power, energy conservation/efficiency programs, payments in lieu of
taxes, and other costs specifically approved by the Common Council. The
electric utility will prepare separate tracking factors for each rate schedule
and, as appropriate, for both the demand and energy charges.
   (B)   The imbedded base costs for the calculation of future ECA tracking
factors are as follows:
 
Purchased power - demand (blended rate):            $23.487/kW-month
Purchased power - energy:                           $0.044018/kWh
(Combined demand and energy imbedded in base rates) $0.093400/kWh
Energy conservation/efficiency:                     $0.000000/kWh
PILOT:                                              $0.000000/kWh
Other:                                              $0.000000 /kWh
 
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2023-42, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 50.050 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Service shall be provided based upon the electric utility’s rules and
regulations.
   (B)   The electric utility shall furnish and maintain, at its expense, the
facilities (including poles, conductors, meters, protective equipment, and
transformers) for a single delivery point. The electric utility shall place its
meters at the delivery point, unless otherwise determined by the electric
utility. All facilities beyond the delivery point are the responsibility of the
customer.
   (C)   If the electric utility places its meters at the primary voltage
level, the customer’s demand (kW) and energy (kWh) measurements shall be
reduced by 2% for the purposes of this schedule.
   (D)   The electric utility may require corrective measures to be taken by
the customer for any motor or other apparatus which, in the opinion of the
electric utility, will cause, or is causing, unacceptable voltage fluctuation
to other customers. Unless otherwise determined by the electric utility service
area, the maximum primary voltage fluctuation will not exceed 3%.
   (E)   The customer shall be responsible for any necessary protection of
customer’s equipment, including, but not limited to, under-voltage, phase-
reversal, and/or loss-of-phase relays.
   (F)   At the time that both the requested and actual in-service dates have
elapsed, the customer shall be responsible for the minimum monthly charge even
if the facility is not yet using electrical energy.
   (G)   The customer will be required to give satisfactory assurance by means
of a written agreement as to the amount and duration of the business offered.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.051 DETERMINATION OF BILLING DEMAND.
   (A)   The billing demand for any month shall be the maximum kilowatt demand
established by the customer for any period of 15 consecutive minutes during the
month for which the bill is rendered. The load shall be as indicated or
recorded by suitable recording instruments provided by the electric utility and
adjusted for power factor as provided in this schedule.
   (B)   When highly fluctuating or intermittent loads (such as welding
machines, electric furnaces, x-ray equipment, and the like) are in operation by
the customer, the electric utility reserves the right to set the minimum
billing demand at the name plate or volt-ampere rating of the equipment. When
such loads require additional equipment (e.g., separate transformers,
capacitors, and the like), a separate facilities charge will be made to the
customer.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.052 POWER FACTOR.
   (A)   The customer agrees to maintain unity power factor as nearly as
practical.
   (B)   The electric utility reserves the right to measure such power factor
at any time.
   (C)   Should such measurements indicate that the power factor is less than
97% (lagging or leading), then the demand for billing purposes will be adjusted
for the monthly peak demand period by multiplying the demand as indicated or
recorded on the demand meter by 97% and dividing by the measured power factor
(expressed in percent).
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
GREEN POWER PROGRAM
§ 50.065 AVAILABILITY.
   This service is available to all consumers of the utility.
(Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.066 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   The Green Power Program enables consumers to support the use of renewable
energy resources in the production of electricity.
(Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.067 MONTHLY RATE.
   (A)   The monthly rate for participation in this program shall be as
follows:
 
Green power charge $0.0100/kWh-month
 
   (B)   This charge is in addition to any other rates and charges under the
consumer’s normal rate schedule.
(Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2007-4, passed 6-28-2007; Ord. 2017-20,
passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.068 MAXIMUM MONTHLY PURCHASE.
   The minimum monthly purchase amount under this subchapter shall be ten kWh.
(Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.069 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The consumer shall enter into a service agreement with the utility
that shall specify the amount of green power in the kWh to be purchased monthly
in numbers of blocks of 100 kWh.
   (B)   Service under this program may be limited at the sole discretion of
the utility, based on the expected amount of renewable energy available,
average monthly energy usage of the customer, bill payment, and collection
histories.
   (C)   The customer may sign up for the program at any time and service will
become effective at the beginning of the next full billing period, at which
point the consumer will be charged for the total amount of green energy
purchased.
   (D)   There is no limit on the level of green energy a consumer can agree to
purchase; provided, however, the customer will be required to pay the green
power rate for the total level even if the consumer’s actual monthly usage is
lower than the fixed level.
   (E)   The consumer may cancel his or her service under this program at any
time. However, any change in service will only become effective at the
beginning of the next full billing period. The charge for green power will not
be prorated in the billing period in which the customer cancels.
(Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.070 MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGES.
   The minimum monthly charge shall be the greater of the contract amount or
the §
50.076 charge.
(Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.071 METERING.
   The electric utility may, at its option, install either secondary or primary
metering equipment.
(Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.072 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Service shall be provided based upon the electric utility’s rules and
regulations as on file with the State Utility Regulatory Commission.
   (B)   The customer will be required to give satisfactory assurance by means
of a written agreement as to the amount and duration of the business offered.
   (C)   The electric utility may require corrective measures to be taken by
the customer or any motor or other apparatus which in the opinion of the
electric utility will cause or is causing unacceptable voltage fluctuation to
other customers. Unless otherwise determined by the utility, the maximum
primary voltage fluctuation will not exceed 3%.
   (D)   The electric utility will furnish and maintain, at its expense, one
transformation. All poles, lines, wiring, and other electrical equipment beyond
the metering point is considered the distribution system of the customer and
shall be furnished and maintained by the customer. The metering equipment shall
be furnished and maintained by the electric utility. When primary metering is
required, the metering equipment, transformer, and other protective equipment
will also be furnished and maintained by the electric utility.
   (E)   The customer shall be responsible for installing under voltage, over
voltage, phase reversal, and/or loss of phase relays for the protection of his
or her equipment.
   (F)   At the time that both the requested and actual in service date have
elapsed, the customer shall be responsible for the subchapter. Customer charge
as a minimum bill even if the facility is not yet using electrical energy.
(Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.073 RATE ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The above rates are subject to an energy cost adjustment (ECA)
tracking factor based solely upon the changes in the cost of purchasing power
from the electric utility’s wholesale power supplier.
   (B)   The ECA will be revised on a quarterly basis by the Board of Public
Works and Safety and will be determined by the difference in the projected
power costs as compared with the base cost of purchased power of $0.046709 per
KWH.
(Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2007-4, passed 6-28-2007; Ord. 2017-20,
passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
NET METERING
§ 50.074 AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   Net metering services are provided upon request and on a first-come,
first-serve basis. This program is available to single-phase customers in good
standing that own and operate a renewable generating facility (such as solar or
wind).
   (B)   The nameplate rating of the customer’s generator must not exceed ten
kilowatts (kW).
   (C)   Customers served under this tariff must also take service from the
utility under the otherwise applicable standard service tariff.
(Ord. 2017-20 passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.075 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   NET METERING means measuring the difference in an applicable billing period
between the amount of electricity supplied by the utility to the customer who
generates electric using an eligible renewable generation source and the amount
of electricity generated by such respective customer that is delivered to the
utility.
(Ord. 2017-20 passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.076 MONTHLY RATE.
   (A)   The monthly rate for participation in this program shall be as
follows:
 
Customer charge $24.70 per month
 
   (B)   Energy charges will be in accordance with the lowest energy charge in
the standard tariff that would apply if the customer did not participate in net
metering under this tariff and any applicable energy cost adjustment, tracker,
or other riders applicable to the standard tariff.
(Ord. 2017-20 passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-
21, passed 6-8-2022)
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION
§ 50.105 AVAILABILITY.
   Charging stations for electric vehicles shall be available to any member of
the public for continuous year-round service to members of the public at
designated locations.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-23-2019)
§ 50.106 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   Electric vehicle charging stations shall be available to members of the
public 24 hours per day for each day of the year.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-23-2019)
§ 50.107 RATE.
   (A)   The base charge immediately upon connection to the charging station by
the electric vehicle shall be in the amount of $2.
   (B)   Thereafter, the rate for utilization of the electric vehicle charging
station facilities shall be $0.50 per hour.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-23-2019)
SECURITY LIGHTING (SL)
§ 50.120 AVAILABILITY.
   This service is available to any residential or general service customer for
continuous year round service for outdoor lighting where 120-volt service
exists ahead of the meter loop.
(Ord. 1988-20, passed 9-8-1988; Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2010-11,
passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.121 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   Security lighting service is a dusk-to-dawn outdoor lighting service, with
lamps to burn approximately one-half hour after sunset until approximately one-
half hour before sunrise each day of the year, approximately 5,000 hours per
year.
(Ord. 1988-20, passed 9-8-1988; Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2010-11,
passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-
2020)
§ 50.122 RATE.
Security Lighting—Monthly ChargeRates per Lamp/Signal
Security Lighting—Monthly ChargeRates per Lamp/Signal
High Pressure Sodium (HPS):
100 watts                         $9.35
150 watts                         $13.65
High Pressure Sodium (HPS):
250 watts                         $21.85
400 watts                         $29.85
1,000 watts                       $64.70
 
(Ord. 1988-20, passed 9-8-1988; Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2010-11,
passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-
2020)
§ 50.123 EXTRA CHARGES.
   (A)   For customers requesting lighting at locations other than locations
where the electric utility has available facilities, the customer shall pay the
installation, labor, and material charges for the pole and line.
   (B)   For a customer requesting non-standard equipment, a charge equaling
the difference between the standard and non-standard installation cost shall be
paid by the customer.
(Ord. 1988-20, passed 9-8-1988; Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.124 BILLING.
   The security light charge will be billed separately on the customer’s
regular bill and shall be paid at the same time and on the same terms as the
customer’s bill.
(Ord. 1988-20, passed 9-8-1988; Ord. 1993-8, passed 8-26-1993; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
INDUSTRIAL SERVICE (IS)
§ 50.135 AVAILABILITY.
   This service is available at primary voltage for large non-residential use
delivered through a single point in the electric utility service area adjacent
to existing electric distribution facilities that are adequate and suitable for
supplying the required service. Service under this schedule is provided on a
yearly basis. The schedule is not applicable as a standby service.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.136 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   The type of service rendered under this subchapter shall be alternating
current, 60 hertz, multi-phase, at a standard primary voltage (e.g., 2400/4100,
7200/12,500 volts), or at another primary voltage as mutually agreed upon in
writing.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010)
§ 50.137 MONTHLY RATE.
   (A)   Consumer charge: $300.00/month.
   (B)   Billing demand charge per kW:
 
Coincidental peak (not less than 70% of non- coincidental peak demand) $22.50
Non-coincidental peak                                                  $3.45
 
   (C)   Energy charge per kW: $0.0593 (subject to ECA - see §
50.141.
   (D)   Facilities charge: the electric utility shall include a charge for
those facilities and/or services requested by the customer and agreed to by the
electric utility when such facilities and/or services are in excess of its
typical facilities and/or services.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-21, passed 6-8-2022; Ord. 2023-42, passed 12-13-
2023)
§ 50.138 MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGE.
   The minimum monthly charge shall be the greatest of:
   (A)   The contract amount, if any;
   (B)   Fifty cents per connected transformer capacity (kVA) or proportional
share of transformer capacity when serving multi-services from a single
transformer bank; or
   (C)   The customer charge.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.139 DETERMINATION OF BILLING DEMAND.
   (A)   The billing demand shall be as indicated or recorded by suitable
recording instruments provided by the electric utility and adjusted for power
factor as provided in this schedule.
   (B)   The coincidental billing demand for any month shall be the maximum
kilowatt demand established by the customer for any period of 60 consecutive
minutes during the clock hour that is coincident with the same month, date, and
time of the city’s wholesale power coincident peak billing demand used by the
State Municipal Power Agency to bill its members located in the Duke Zone.
   (C)   The non-coincidental billing demand for any month shall be the maximum
kilowatt demand established by the customer for any period of 15 consecutive
minutes during the month for which the bill is rendered.
   (D)   When highly fluctuating or intermittent loads (such as welding
machines, electric furnaces, x-ray equipment, and the like) are in operation by
the customer, the electric utility reserves the right to set the minimum
billing demand at the name plate or volt-ampere rating of the equipment. When
such loads require additional equipment (e.g., separate transformers,
capacitors, and the like), the costs for such equipment shall be included in
the facilities charge.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.140 POWER FACTOR.
   (A)   The customer agrees to maintain unity power factor as nearly as
practical.
   (B)   The electric utility reserves the right to measure such power factor
at any time. Should such measurements indicate that the power factor is less
than 97% (lagging or leading), then the demand for billing purposes will be
adjusted for the monthly peak demand period by multiplying the demand as
indicated or recorded on the demand meter by 97% and dividing by the measured
power factor (expressed in percent).
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.141 ENERGY COST ADJUSTMENT TRACKING FACTOR.
   (A)   The electric utility will update its energy cost adjustment (ECA)
tracking factor each calendar quarter based on changes in the costs of
purchased power, energy conservation/efficiency programs, payments in lieu of
taxes, and other costs specifically approved by the Common Council. The
electric utility will prepare separate tracking factors for each rate schedule
and, as appropriate, for both the demand and energy charges.
   (B)   The imbedded base costs for the calculation of future ECA tracking
factors are as follows:
 
Purchased power - demand:                           $23.487/kW-month
Purchased power - energy:                           $0.044018/kWh
(Combined demand and energy imbedded in base rates) $0.093400/kWh
Energy conservation/efficiency:                     $0.000000/kWh
PILOT:                                              $0.000000/kWh
Other:                                              $0.000000/kWh
 
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2017, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2023-42, passed 12-13-2023)
PEAK MANAGEMENT CREDITS
§ 50.155 AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   Peak management credits are available to any residential customer of
the electric utility, with a state municipal power agency-owned peak management
switch installed on a central air conditioner and/or electric water heater.
   (B)   Rules and provisions for participation in the peak management program
are available at the electric utility’s office.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 4-13-1995; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 50.156 CREDITS.
   (A)   The credits for participation in the peak management program will be
as follows:
 
Type of Credit          Fee (per switch per month)
Electric water heaters
January through         $1
December
Central air conditioner
June through            $2
September
 
   (B)   Those credits will be included on participating customer’s monthly
bills. A customer participating in the program may withdraw at any time upon
notifying the electric utility. Credits will stop with the first bill following
customer withdrawal from the peak management program, the termination of the
electric utility’s participation in the program or the program’s termination by
IMPA.
   (C)   All other terms and conditions of the electric utility’s applicable
residential service rate schedule apply to this attachment.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 4-13-1995; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
MUNICIPAL STREET LIGHTING (ML)
§ 50.170 AVAILABILITY.
   This service is available only to the city for street lighting within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010)
§ 50.171 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   (A)   A dusk to dawn outdoor lighting service. Lamps to burn approximately
one-half hour after sunset until approximately one-half hour before sunrise
each day of the year - approximately 5,000 hours per year.
   (B)   Monthly rates.
 
LED 65 watt  $3.50 per month
LED 95 watt  $4.75 per month
LED 142 watt $7.40 per month
LED 157 watt $10.75 per month
 
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2017-20, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
NON-RECURRING CHARGES
§ 50.185 SCHEDULE OF NON-RECURRING CHARGES.
   (A)   Payment of bills.
      (1)   Electric service bills are issued monthly. They are due upon
receipt, and are payable to the customer support representative at the office
of the electric utility during regular customer service office hours or in the
drop box at City Hall after hours.
      (2)   All other employees of the city or the electric utility are
expressly prohibited from receiving payment for utility bills.
      (3)   If payment is not made two days from the due date of the bill, the
account is then delinquent and the “collection charge” in the amount of 3% of
the first $3 plus the current unpaid balance as provided in the rate schedule
is applicable. If payment is not made within the due date, the customer is
informed by mail that the service is subject to disconnection, without further
notice.
      (4)   In case of disconnection for non-payment of the bill, the customer
will not be reconnected until he or she has paid the reconnection charge plus
all amounts owed to the electric utility, or make an arrangement for his or her
payment which is satisfactory to the electric utility.
   (B)   Collection charge. In addition to rates for service when it is
necessary for an employee of the electric utility to go to a customer’s
premises to collect a delinquent bill, a collection charge of $50 will be made.
After hours service charges are $100.
   (C)   Disconnection charge. When service has been disconnected by the
electric utility for non-payment of bills, a charge of $50 must be paid by the
customer before such service is reconnected. After business hours service
charge is $100.
   (D)   Reconnection charge.
      (1)   When service has been disconnected by the electric utility at the
customer’s option, a request to reconnect service during normal business hours
will require a reconnect charge of $50 prior to service being restored.
      (2)   If the customer, at his or her option, requests service to be
restored after normal business hours, as provided above under division (A)
above, a charge of $100 must be paid prior to reconnection.
   (E)   Insufficient funds. When a check that was received in payment of a
customer’s account is returned unpaid by the bank for any reason (not the fault
of the electric utility), the customer shall be assessed a handling charge of
$30 for each check returned by the bank.
   (F)   Customer false callout. When a customer calls the electric utility for
service restoration or repairs on the customer’s premises and it is determined
that the problem is confined to the customer’s property or facilities (such as
a tripped breaker, blown fuse, faulty wiring, and the like), a service charge
of $50 may be assessed toward the customer’s account. The charge for this
service after business hours is $100.
   (G)   Damage to utility facilities. If a customer causes damage to any
facility of the electric utility, the customer shall be responsible for all
costs associated with repairing or replacing the damaged facilities.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 9-22-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   City wastewater service area established; regulating the furnishing of
wastewater therein
Rules and Regulations
   
51.015   Sewage disposal; use of public sewers required
   
51.016   Private disposal facilities
   
51.017   Building sewer permits; specifications
   
51.018   Prohibited wastes; stormwater
   
51.019   Tampering with sewer system
   
51.020   Pretreatment
   
51.021   Samples; reports
   
51.022   Payment in lieu of taxes
Sewer Charges
   
51.035   Charges established
   
51.036   Sewer rates
   
51.037   Water furnished from other than city supply; sprinkling rate
   
51.038   Equitable adjustment
   
51.039   Billing
   
51.040   Bylaws and regulations
Industrial Cost Recovery
   
51.055   Charges; billing
   
51.056   Determination of users subject to industrial cost recovery
   
51.057   Basis for charges
   
51.058   Wastewater Utility Industrial Cost Recovery Fund
   
51.059   Inspections
Sewer Connection Costs
   
51.070   Availability costs
   
51.071   Additional funds contributed
   
51.072   Oversizing costs
   
51.073   Individual connection to sewers
   
51.074   Ownership
   
51.075   Off-site sewers
   
51.076   On-site sewers
   
51.077   Connections in developed areas
   
51.078   Individual connection costs
   
51.079   Repayment to individual contributors
   
51.080   Allocation of receipts
   
51.081   Requirements for individual connections
   
51.082   Sewer rehabilitation project general format
   
51.083   Depreciation Fund
POTW - General Provisions
   
51.095   Purpose and policy
   
51.096   Administration
   
51.097   Abbreviations
   
51.098   Definitions
   
51.099   Conflicts with other provisions
POTW - General Sewer Use Requirements
   
51.110   Purpose and applicability
   
51.111   Prohibited discharge standards
   
51.112   Abnormal waste surcharge
   
51.113   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
   
51.114   Local limits
   
51.115   Board of Public Works and Safety’s right of revision
   
51.116   Dilution
   
51.117   Records retention
   
51.118   Representative samples
   
51.119   Request for information
   
51.120   Additional monitoring by permittee
   
51.121   Minimize adverse impact
   
51.122   Operation and maintenance
POTW - Grease Trap/Interceptor Compliance (Fats, Grease, and Oils)
   
51.135   Purpose and applicability
   
51.136   General grease trap/interceptor requirements
   
51.137   Grease trap/interceptor permitting requirements
   
51.138   Grease trap/interceptor permit duration
   
51.139   Grease trap/interceptor permit transfer
   
51.140   Grease trap/interceptor permit revocation
   
51.141   Grease trap/interceptor permit modification
   
51.142   Reporting requirements
   
51.143   Right of entry; inspection and entry
   
51.144   Signatory requirements
   
51.145   Application fee
   
51.146   Enforcement
POTW - Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
51.160   Purpose and applicability
   
51.161   Pretreatment facilities
   
51.162   Additional pretreatment measures
   
51.163   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
51.164   Hauled wastewater
   
51.165   Bypass
POTW - Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
   
51.180   Purpose and applicability
   
51.181   Wastewater analysis
   
51.182   Wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
51.183   Wastewater discharge permitting; existing connections
   
51.184   Wastewater discharge permitting; new connections
   
51.185   Wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
51.186   Signatory requirements
   
51.187   Wastewater discharge permit decisions
POTW - Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
   
51.200   Purpose and applicability
   
51.201   Wastewater discharge permit duration
   
51.202   Wastewater discharge permit contents
   
51.203   Wastewater discharge permit appeals
   
51.204   Wastewater discharge permit modification
   
51.205   Wastewater discharge permit transfer
   
51.206   Wastewater discharge permit revocation
   
51.207   Duty to reapply
   
51.208   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
POTW - Reporting Requirements
   
51.220   Purpose and applicability
   
51.221   Baseline monitoring reports
   
51.222   Noncompliance notification
   
51.223   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
51.224   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
51.225   Periodic compliance reports
   
51.226   Reports of changed conditions
   
51.227   Reports of potential problems
   
51.228   Reports from unpermitted users
   
51.229   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
51.230   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
51.231   Analytical requirements
   
51.232   Sample collection
   
51.233   Timing
POTW - Compliance Monitoring
   
51.245   Right of entry; inspection and entry
   
51.246   Search warrant
   
51.247   Confidential information
POTW - Administrative Enforcement Remedies; Effective Delegation of a Local
Pretreatment Program
   
51.260   Notification of violation
   
51.261   Compliance agreements
   
51.262   Show cause hearing
   
51.263   Compliance orders
   
51.264   Cease and desist orders
   
51.265   Administrative fines
   
51.266   Emergency suspension
   
51.267   Termination of discharge
POTW - Judicial Enforcement Remedies; Effective Upon Delegation of a Local
Pretreatment Program
   
51.280   Injunctive relief
   
51.281   Remedies nonexclusive
POTW - Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
51.295   Upset
   
51.296   Prohibited discharge standards
POTW - Miscellaneous Provisions
   
51.310   Pretreatment charges and fees
   
51.311   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
51.312   Effective date
   
51.313   State Department of Environmental Management Issued Industrial Waste
Permits (IWPs)
 
   
51.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Utility Deposit Policies, see §
53.01 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, Public Law
92-500, adopted by the 92nd U.S. Congress on October 18, 1972, being 33 U.S.C.
§§ 1251 et seq.
   AMOUNTS FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND EXPANSION. Those amounts which represent a
minimum of 80% of the amount retained by the city, together with interest
earned thereon. These amounts shall be used solely for the eligible costs of
the expansion or reconstruction of treatment works associated with the project
and necessary to meet the requirements of the act. The city shall obtain the
written approval of the Regional Administrator of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency prior to commitment of the retained amounts for any expansion
and reconstruction. The remaining 20% of retained amounts may be used at the
discretion of the city.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (B.O.D.). The quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance
with the procedures set forth in STANDARD METHODS.
   BUILDING (or HOUSE) DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building, and conveys it to a
point approximately five feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING (or HOUSE) SEWER. The pipe which is connected to the building (or
house) drain at the point approximately five feet outside the foundation wall
of the building, and which conveys the building’s discharge from that point to
the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measure of the oxygen equivalent of that
portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in STANDARD METHODS.
   CLEAN OUT. A vertical section of sewer pipe (usually capped) rising from the
lateral as a point of service to clean the lateral.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the
treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact does remove
such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE is not
subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in the order
of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not
considered substantial. Examples of the additional pollutants which may be
considered compatible include chemical oxygen demand; total organic carbon;
phosphorus and phosphorus compounds; nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and fats,
oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as prohibited where
these materials would interfere with the operation of the treatment works.)
   CUSTOMERS. Customers of the Wastewater Utility.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FEDERAL GRANT AMOUNTS. The portion of the total construction costs for
Project Number C-180611 which was sponsored by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency. The federal grant will amount to approximately $4,040,000.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, grease in a physical state from petroleum base
products, or chemical products as well as oil of animal or vegetable origin
such that will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a
pretreatment facility approved by the city.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, or dispensing of
food and from the handling, storage, or sale of produce.
   HYDROGEN ION CONCENTRATION. See pH.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a COMPATIBLE
POLLUTANT, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY PERIOD. The period during which the grant amount
allocable to the treatment of wastes from industrial users is recovered from
the industrial users of such works, which shall be a period of 30 years.
   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow, or escaping from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial, or business process, or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any process, or from the development, recovery, or processing of
any natural resources carried on by any INDUSTRIAL USER as defined below,
exclusive of SANITARY SEWAGE as defined below.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any nongovernmental user of the treatment works identified in the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A -   Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B -   Mining;
         (c)   Division D -   Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E -   Transportation, Communication, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e)   Division I -   Services.
      (2)   A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined
that such will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellars,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from
storm sewers, combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface runoff,
street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is distinguished
from INFILTRATION.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from INFLOW.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the city, through the
Board, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer system.
   INTERCEPTOR OR TRUNK SEWER COSTS. Sewer costs external to a development.
Sewer costs within a development will be classed as local sewer costs.
Oversizing costs, as outlined in §
51.072, shall be considered interceptor costs and shall qualify for refunding.
   LATERAL. The portion of the sewerage conveyance system leading from a
private home, building, lift station, business, or approved structure to the
city sewer main. For additional information, see BUILDING (or HOUSE) SEWER.
   MANAGER. The Manager of the Sewage Department of the city, or his or her
duly authorized representative.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts, as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of PL 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the
waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on that treatment works or on the quality of effluent
from that treatment works.
   NONINDUSTRIAL USER. Any governmental or residential user. The term also
includes commercial, institutional, and other industrial users where it has
been determined that the waste contributed by these users is primarily
segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater or sewage from segregated domestic or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes, and
having, as an average daily concentration, a B.O.D. of not more than 204
milligrams per liter and an SS of not more than 240 milligrams per liter.
   NOTIFICATION. Any attempt by the Wastewater Utility Manager to notify an
area business, business owner, or homeowner by means of a posting, newspaper
ad, or letter of an upcoming sewer project that may or may not affect said
owner. The manner and method of NOTIFICATION attempted shall be at the Manager
of the city’s power and light utility’s sole discretion.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States, pursuant to § 402 of PL 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   OUTLET. Any outlet, natural or constructed, which is the point of final
discharge of sewage or of treatment plant effluent into any watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake, or other body of surface or ground water.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base ten) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution, expressed in gram atoms per liter of solution.
   PAYMENT TO U.S. TREASURY. The portion of the recovered amounts that must be
returned to the U.S. Treasury on an annual basis. The annual payments to the
U.S. Treasury amount to 50% of the annual recovered amounts, together with
interest earned thereon.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIMARY SEWER MAIN. The public sewer main which is required to transport
sewage from the property line of the nearest prospective user to the proposed
point of connection at the Wastewater Utility existing sewer main.
   PRIVATE LATERAL REPAIR AND/OR REPLACEMENT APPLICATION. A form supplied to
the homeowner and/or business owner by the Manager’s office to be completed
requesting assistance in the repair or replacement of a private lateral at no
cost.
   PROJECT DIRECTOR. The City Engineer or Wastewater Utility Manager
responsible to oversee a given contract’s supervision and oversight.
   PROJECT NUMBER C-180611. A separate and distinct construction project for
construction of the city’s municipal sewage works which was sponsored by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the provisions of Public Law 92-500.
This project does not include past or future construction, equipment, or other
services not included under the specific project number and the approved plans,
specifications, and approved change orders for the project which are on file in
the City Hall, and by reference made a part of this chapter as fully as if it
were attached hereto or incorporated herein.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream, or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
   RECOVERED AMOUNTS. The annual payments from industrial users for their share
of the federal grant allocable to the cost of treating industrial waste, which
is determined by dividing the amount of the total federal grant allocable to
the treatment of industrial waste by the recovery period.
   REHABILITATION. A city sponsored project designed to replace or repair any
portion of the sewerage conveyance system including, but not limited to, sewer
mains, manholes, and connections to the main sewer line.
   RETAINED AMOUNTS. The portion of the recovered amounts retained by the city.
The retained amounts shall be equal to 50% of the recovered amounts, together
with interest earned thereon.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings (including apartment houses, hotels, and motels), office buildings,
factories, or institutions, and free from stormwater, surface water, and
industrial wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER REHABILITATION PROJECT. The act of sewer pipe repair or
replacement due to pipe age, cracks, separate joints, bellies, sags, inflow,
infiltration, blockage, and the like, which cause or lead to stormwater
entering the sanitary sewer system or continued service problems for Wastewater
Utility personnel.
   SECONDARY SEWER MAIN. The public sewer main which is required to provide
service from a prospective user to the primary sewer main.
   SEGREGATED DOMESTIC WASTES. Wastes from non-residential sources resulting
from normal domestic activities, and measurable and set apart from industrial
trade or process discharges.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The basic charge levied on all users of the sanitary sewer
system for wastes which do not exceed in strength the concentration values
above which a surcharge will be made.
   SEWAGE. The water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage or other waste liquids.
      (1)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
      (2)   PUBLIC SEWER. A primary sewer or secondary sewer in which all
owners of abutting property have equal rights and which is controlled by the
Wastewater Utility.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters and unpolluted industrial wastewaters are not
intentionally admitted.
      (4)   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface water
drainage, but excludes sewage.
   SEWER INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment
to this chapter, which provides for recovery from industrial users of the
Wastewater Utility of a portion of the federal grant amount allocable to the
construction of sewage facilities for treating industrial waste, pursuant to §
204(b) of PL 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284, and 40 C.F.R. part 35.928-1 and
35.928-2.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this chapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater”, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation, and “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis
of Pollutants”, Regulation 40 C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal
Register on October 16, 1973.
   SURCHARGE. The extra charges for sewerage service assessed users whose
sewage is of such a nature that it imposes on the Wastewater Utility a burden
greater than that covered by the basic service charge.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SS. Solids which float either on the surface of or are
in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquid, and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in STANDARD METHODS.
   TOTAL REVENUE. The revenue obtained from monthly minimum billing for the use
of and service rendered by the Wastewater Utility, and does not include front
foot assessments, permit or inspection fees, or other charges.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which, on exposure to or assimilation into any organism, will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations,
as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of PL 92-500, being 33
U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to § 204(b) of PL
92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system, and as industrial and non-industrial in the industrial cost
recovery system).
   USER, COMMERCIAL. Any establishment listed in the office of Management and
Budget’s “Standard Industrial Classification Manual”, 1972 Edition, (also
referred to as SICM), involved in a commercial enterprise, business, or service
which, based on a determination by the city, discharges primarily segregated
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   USER, GOVERNMENTAL. Any federal, state, or local governmental user of the
wastewater treatment works.
   USER, INDUSTRIAL. Any manufacturing or processing facility that discharges
industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works. INDUSTRIAL USERS shall be
identified in the “ICM” under Divisions A, B, D, E, or I.
   USER, INSTITUTIONAL. Any establishment listed in the “ICM” involved in a
social, charitable, religious, or educational function which, based on a
determination by the city, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   USER, RESIDENTIAL. A user of the treatment works whose premises or building
is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including all
dwelling units.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. Material in the sewage solids transformed to gases
or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE AREA. The wastewater service area as described in this
chapter.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. The wastewater treatment and collection facility
of the city, and the arrangement of devices, structures, and equipment used for
treating and disposing of sewage and sludge therein.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM. The wastewater treatment system of the city,
comprised of the network of sewers and appurtenances, including the pumping
stations and other related component parts, in all cases used for the
collecting, transporting, and pumping sewage to the wastewater treatment plant.
   WASTEWATER UTILITY. The Wastewater Utility of the city.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 1977-20, passed 11-10-1977; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.002 CITY WASTEWATER SERVICE AREA ESTABLISHED; REGULATING THE FURNISHING OF
WASTEWATER THEREIN.
   (A)   Authority. The city owns and operates the Wastewater Utility. I.C. 36-
9-2-16 authorizes a municipality to regulate the furnishing of the service of
collecting, processing, and disposing of waste substances and domestic or
sanitary sewage to the public. I.C. 36-9-2-18 authorizes a municipality to
exercise powers granted by I.C. 36-9-2-16 in areas within four miles outside
its corporate boundaries. I.C. 8-1.5-6 et seq. authorizes the city to adopt a
regulatory ordinance which is then submitted to the State Utility Regulatory
Commission for its review and approval. The regulatory ordinance allows the
municipality to regulate the furnishing of Wastewater Utility service in areas
within four miles outside the city’s corporate boundaries.
   (B)   Agreement.
      (1)   Pursuant to an agreement between Hancock County Rural Telephone
Corporation d/b/a NineStar Connect and the city, the parties agreed to an
exclusive wastewater service area for the city within four miles of the city’s
corporate limits.
      (2)   The county regional water and sewer district adopted a consent to
transfer certified territorial authority, a copy of which is attached to
Ordinance 2016-5 as Exhibit A, in which it approved and ratified the agreement.
      (3)   The agreement, a copy of which is attached to Ordinance 2016-5 as
Exhibit B, is hereby approved. In approving the agreement, the city understands
and affirms that the agreement and Ordinance 2016-5 shall not, in any way,
prevent the city from:
         (a)   Later seeking and obtaining from the county regional water and
sewer district the right to serve any area within the district’s jurisdiction;
         (b)   Retaining any and all rights to acquire any or all of NineStar’s
assets used in providing wastewater services in the additional service area; or
         (c)   Exercising any power it has under I.C. 8-1.5-1-1 et seq. or 36-
9-23-1 et seq.
   (C)   Wastewater service area.
      (1)   The wastewater service area is hereby defined and established as
those areas within the corporate boundaries of the city, as well as certain
areas within four miles outside the city’s boundaries, as shown on the map
attached to Ordinance 2016-5 as Exhibit C.
      (2)   Upon the adoption of Ordinance 2016-5 and its approval by the State
Utility Regulatory Commission, the Wastewater Utility shall hold an exclusive
license to furnish wastewater service within the wastewater service area, and
the Wastewater Utility shall be the exclusive provider of wastewater to the
public within the wastewater service area.
      (3)   (a)   Upon the adoption of Ordinance 2016-5 and its approval by the
State Utility Regulatory Commission, no other utilities are permitted to
provide wastewater service within the city, or within the wastewater service
area.
         (b)   This chapter does not:
            1.   Mandate the city to extend service to areas where technically
or financially not feasible; or
            2.   Prevent the use of on-site disposal systems where the city
does not have facilities available.
         (c)   Rather, it expressly prohibits other utilities from furnishing
wastewater service to users within the city or within the wastewater service
area.
      (4)   No end service user shall permit a connection to wastewater service
within the wastewater service area by any other wastewater service provider.
      (5)   The city’s existing rules and regulations for wastewater service,
as amended from time to time, shall apply to and within the wastewater service
area.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 51.015 SEWAGE DISPOSAL; USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, floatable oils as defined by this chapter, or other
objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
city any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (D)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
   (E)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the city, is required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, provided that
said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
   (F)   The owner is responsible for all infrastructure required to connect
the subject structure to the sewer main regardless of where the sewer main is
located. This obligation remains intact, even if a sewer rehabilitation program
may replace all or a portion of such infrastructure in an effort to reduce
inflow and infiltration of clear water into the sanitary sewer system, as
described in §§
51.055 and
51.056.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 1965-3, passed 1-20-1965; Ord. 1977-22, passed 11-
10-1977; Ord. 1996-19, passed 9-26-1996; Ord. 2010-9, passed 6-23-2010; Ord.
2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 PRIVATE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.015(E), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   At any house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and where
there is installed a water carriage sewage disposal system which is not
connected to a proper public sewer system, there shall be established,
installed, or constructed and maintained, at no expense to the city, a private
sewage disposal system which shall comply with the recommendations of the State
Board of Health.
   (C)   At any house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and where
there is installed a privy, said privy shall be of the sanitary type, and shall
be constructed and maintained at no expense to the city to comply with the
recommendations of the State Board of Health.
   (D)   No new construction or installation of a combined sewer or privy shall
be permitted within the city.
   (E)   Should any defect occur in any private water carriage sewage disposal
system or privy which would cause said sewage disposal system or privy to fail
to meet the requirements in divisions (B) or (C) above, the defect shall be
corrected immediately by the owner or agent of the owner or the occupant or
agent of the occupant, at no expense to the city. Failure on the part of the
owner or agent of the owner or the occupant or agent of the occupant to do so
shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Wherever a public sewer becomes available to a house, building, or
property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes,
served by a private sewage disposal system or privy, as provided for in §
51.015(E), situated within the city, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer, and any septic tanks, seepage pits, privy pits, and similar
sewage disposal and treatment facilities shall be abandoned and filled in a
safe and sanitary manner.
   (G)   Within 30 days after receiving an official order in writing from the
City Engineer, the owner, agent of the owner, the occupant, or agent of the
occupant of the property shall comply with the provisions of this chapter set
forth in the official order of the City Engineer, except as provided for in §
51.015(E). The official order shall be served on the owner and the occupant or
on the agent of the owner, but may be served on any person who, by contact with
the owner, has assumed the duty of complying with the provisions of an official
order.
   (H)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner or agent of the owner shall obtain a written permit from the
Board. The application for such permit shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer on
a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications, and other information as deemed necessary by the Board.
A permit and inspection fee in an amount determined by the Board shall be paid
to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (I)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer. The City Engineer shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the City Engineer when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the City Engineer.
   (J)   No person shall deposit waste products of septic tanks, cesspools, dry
well, privies, or other waste disposal systems into the sewage disposal system
of the city except at a point or points designated for such deposits by the
Board.
   (K)   Any person depositing any waste products referred to in division (J)
above into the sewage disposal system shall pay a fee to the city of $0.50 per
100 gallons of waste products so deposited, payable at the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer at such times as designated by the Board.
   (L)   Every person so depositing waste products referred to in division (J)
above into the sewage disposal system shall be subject to inspection by
officials designated to make such inspections by the Board, and said persons
making such inspections shall have the right to require any person depositing
said waste products in the sewage disposal system to meet proper sanitation
requirements in the delivery and depositing of said waste products.
   (M)   At any house, building, or property as referred to in division (C)
above, the Wastewater Utility may conduct a sanitary sewer rehabilitation
project in any part of the city in order to remove inflow and infiltration
sources. The Wastewater Utility reserves the right to enter onto private
property in order to replace all or any private laterals in the rehabilitation
area, at no cost to the homeowner or business owner with notification. Prior to
initiation of reuse of the new lateral to the rehabilitated sewer main, the
Wastewater Utility reserves the right to inspect the home or business property,
including all structures, through a representative of the Manager, to search
for sources of inflow and infiltration as shown in §
51.018(B). It shall be the owner’s responsibility to remove these sources of
inflow and infiltration at no cost to the city. The owner, as stated in
division (C) above, shall maintain the new lateral and retain ownership
thereof, once reuse has commenced.
   (N)   Residing homeowners may request assistance from the Wastewater Utility
through a private lateral repair and/or replacement application only in the
case of a total lateral failure. Upon review and approval of such an
application by the Wastewater Utility Manager, and only after proper
information has been supplied by the owner, and if sufficient funds are
available in the Wastewater Utility budget line item 419, a private lateral may
be repaired or replaced at no expense to the owner, even if it is outside of
the provisions of division (M) above. The owner, as stated in division (C)
above, shall maintain the new lateral and retain ownership thereof, once reuse
has commenced.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord.1965-3, passed 1-20-1965; Ord. 1977-22, passed 11-
10-1977; Ord. 2008-20, passed 6-25-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.017 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without obtaining a written permit from the Board.
   (B)   No person shall make any connection with the public sewers or drains,
or with any extension or connection previously made, without obtaining a
written permit from the Board. The application for such permit must be made, in
writing, not later than the day previous to the opening of the street by the
owner or authorized agent of the property to be drained, and must be
accompanied by a clear description of the premises, the name of the owner, the
number of fixtures to be connected therewith, and the name of the person
employed to do the work. Any permit so issued by the Board shall be subject to
recession and/or termination by the Manager, and/or the City Engineer should
the user fail to comply with all of the terms, conditions, and provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person
installing the building sewer for said owner shall indemnify the city from any
loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by said
installation.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. However, where two buildings are in close proximity and no private
sewer is available or can be constructed to the second building through an
adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the second building and the whole considered as one
building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and test by the City Engineer to meet all
the requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM specification or
equal vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specification or equal, or other suitable
material as governed by the state’s Uniform Plumbing Code in effect as of the
date of adoption of this chapter, and any provisions thereof which may be
amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto from time to time hereafter, and as
shall be approved by the City Engineer. Joints shall be tight and waterproof.
Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of a water
service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe with leaded joints.
Cast iron pipes with leaded joints may be required by the City Engineer where
the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If installed in filled
or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, except
that non-metallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed
or cradle as approved by the City Engineer.
   (G)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the City Engineer, but, in no event, shall the diameter be less
than six inches for single-family or duplex residential units, and not less
than six inches for all other uses. The slope of such six-inch pipe shall be
not less than one-fourth inch per foot or sufficient slope to maintain a two
feet per second velocity in the sewer.
   (H)   Whenever possible the building sewers shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment
insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly
curved pipes and fittings.
   (I)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (J)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications,
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the City Engineer or his or her representative.
   (K)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and
as governed by the state’s Uniform Plumbing Code in effect as of the date of
adoption of this chapter, and any provisions thereof which may be amendatory
thereof or supplemental thereto from time to time hereafter.
      (1)   Cast iron joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and
filled with appropriate sealing material other than molten lead and be caulked
tightly. No paint, varnish, or other coatings shall be permitted on the
jointing material until after the joint has been tested and approved. Approved
joints of prefabricated elastomeric seal rings or sleeves may also be used.
      (2)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe shall be made with ASTM C425 type
joints. Joints between clay pipe and pipe of other materials shall be made with
approved adapter fittings or prefabricated elastomeric sealing rings or
sleeves.
      (3)   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only on approval
of the City Engineer.
      (4)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer does not have a properly located “Y” branch, the owner shall,
at his or her expense, install an approved tapping saddle in the public sewer
at the location specified by the City Engineer. The tapping saddle shall be
installed in a neatly tapped hole cut into the public sewer; said connection
between the tapping saddle and public sewer shall be secured by the use of
epoxy compound. The centerline of the building sewer at the tapping saddle
shall be at or above the centerline of the public sewer. A smooth neat joint
shall be made, and the connection made secure and watertight. Special fittings
may be used for the connection only when approved by the City Engineer.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City
Engineer 24 hours in advance of when the building sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the City Engineer or his or her representative.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (N)   Any connection made contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed when required by the Board.
   (O)   No proposed connection or inlet shall be permitted if, in the opinion
of the Board and the City Engineer, such inlet and connection would overburden
such sewer.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 1961-10, passed 3-22-1961; Ord. 1965-3, passed 1-
20-1965; Ord. 1977-22, passed 11-10-1977; Ord. 1996-19, passed 9-26-1996; Ord.
2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 PROHIBITED WASTES; STORMWATER.
   (A)   The city is authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the sanitary
sewer system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation of
the wastewater treatment plant, or to require methods affecting pretreatment of
said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included in the National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to the Wastewater
Utility. In furtherance of this section, the Wastewater Utility Manager and/or
the City Engineer is authorized to issue an order prohibiting further
acceptance of effluent from any user who refuses to comply with the terms,
conditions, and provisions of this chapter as well as to rescind or terminate
said users permit to discharge effluent into the collection treatment or
discharge sewer treatment facilities of the city.
   (B)   Stormwater and any other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the City Engineer. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the City Engineer
and the state into a storm sewer or natural outlet. No roof drains, eaves, or
roof runoff shall be discharged into a sanitary sewer or combined sewer.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the Wastewater Utility; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the Wastewater Utility such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and other like
items, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes, except if it appears
likely, in the opinion of the City Engineer and/or the Wastewater Utility
Manager, that such wastes will not harm either the sewers, the sewage treatment
process, or equipment, nor have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, nor
otherwise endanger life, limb, or public property, nor constitute a nuisance.
In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the City
Engineer and/or the Wastewater Utility Manager will give consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors. Unacceptable substances include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F or 65°C;
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l, of which not more than 25 mg/l is
soluble oils, or containing substances which may solidify or become so highly
viscous as to retard flow in the sanitary sewer system at temperatures between
32°F and 150°F (0°C and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder, other than in a residence, may be subject
to the review and approval of the City Engineer;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes exceeding the following maximum allowable
limits: 2 mg/l of zinc, 2 mg/l of total chromium, 0.1 mg/l cadmium, .5 mg/l of
copper, 0.5 mg/l of cyanide, 2.0 mg/l of nickel, 1 mg/l of chromium as Cr
(hexavalent), 0.002 mg/l of mercury as Hg, 0.05 mg/l of lead as Pb, 30 mg/l of
chlorine demand, 15 mg/l of iron, and similar objectionable or toxic
substances; or wastes exerting excessive chlorine requirements, to such degree
that any such material received in the composite sewage at the wastewater
treatment plant exceeds the limits established by the City Engineer for such
materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances after treatment of the limits which may be established by
the City Engineer as necessary to meet the requirements of state, federal, or
other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the respective
waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the City Engineer in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH of less than 5.0 or in excess of
9;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert, suspended solids, such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of
dissolved solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate;
         (b)   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
         (c)   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the wastewater
treatment plant; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
SLUGS, as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers which contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which, in the judgment of
the City Engineer and/or the Wastewater Utility Manager, may have a deleterious
effect on the Wastewater Utility, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
City Engineer and/or the Wastewater Utility Manager shall:
      (1)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
      (2)   Require other methods of disposal;
      (3)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (4)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
      (5)   Require facilities to prevent accidental discharge of any
unacceptable wastes;
      (6)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by sewer charges under the provisions of §§
51.035 through
51.040 and all ordinances amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, and any
fines, penalties, or damages assessed against the city for discharge of such
wastes; and
      (7)   To revoke in full or in part the users permit or to enter an order
rejecting the user’s effluent until such time as the user’s effluent complies
with the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   If the City Engineer and/or the Wastewater Utility Manager permits the
pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the
plans and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the City
Engineer and/or the Wastewater Utility Manager, and subject to the requirements
of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (G)   Any industrial wastes discharged into the public sewers shall be
subject to periodic inspection and determination of volume, character, and
concentration. The examination shall be made as often as the City Engineer and/
or the Wastewater Utility Manager deems it necessary, and may include the use
of suitable continuously monitoring instruments in appropriate cases. Samples
shall be collected either manually or by approved mechanical devices and in
such a manner as to be representative of the overall composition of the wastes.
Every care shall be exercised in collecting the samples to ensure their
preservation, until analyzed, in a state comparable to that at the time the
samples were collected. All costs associated with the collection and testing of
samples shall be paid by the user and, if within 30 days of being notified of
the costs of the collection and testing, the user fails to pay the charge, the
same shall be added to the user’s sewer utility statement.
   (H)   The installation, operation, and maintenance of the flow measuring and
sampling facilities shall be the responsibility of the person discharging the
wastes, and shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
   (I)   The City Engineer, Inspector, and other duly authorized city
employees, state water pollution control employees, and U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency employees bearing proper credentials and identification shall
be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The City Engineer or his or her representatives,
the state water pollution control employees, and USEPA employees shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.
   (J)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (I) above, the City Engineer or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to city
employees. The city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
division (H) above.
   (K)   The City Engineer and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the Wastewater Utility
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (L)   Fats, grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the City Engineer and/or the Wastewater Utility Manager, they
are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, and other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for single-
family dwellings. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the City Engineer, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection.
   (M)   Fats, grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and
equipped with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be
gastight and watertight.
   (N)   Where installed, all fats, grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (O)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having a
five-day B.O.D greater than 204 milligrams per liter by weight; containing more
than 240 milligrams per liter by weight of suspended solids; containing any
quantity of substances having the characteristics described in (D) above; or
having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily sewage flow
of the city shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Engineer.
Where necessary in the opinion of the City Engineer, the owner shall provide,
at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to reduce
the B.O.D. to 204 milligrams per liter and the suspended solids to 240
milligrams per liter by weight; reduce objectionable characteristics or
constituents to within the maximum limits provided in division (D) above; or
control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans,
specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
City Engineer and of the State Stream Pollution Control Board, and no
construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said approval is
obtained in writing.
   (P)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense. In addition to any preliminary
treatment facility being maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner, at the owner’s expense, the owner shall maintain
written records regarding said maintenance, including, but not limited to, the
repair, cleaning, removal, or replacement of any material or part of said
facility on forms to be provided by the city, which forms shall be kept
continually on the property being served and available for inspection by the
City Engineer or duly authorized employees of the city.
   (Q)   When required by the City Engineer, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate the observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the City Engineer. The manhole shall be installed so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (R)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of characteristics of waters and
wastes shall be determined in accordance with “Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Sewage”, and shall be determined at the control
manhole provided for in division (Q) above or on suitable samples taken at the
control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the
control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the
public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (S)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern; provided that the payment shall not be less than the
pollutant surcharges provided for in §§
51.035 through
51.040 and all ordinances amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 1965-3, passed 1-20-1965; Ord. 1977-20, passed 11-
10-1977; Ord. 1977-22, passed 11-10-1977; Ord. 1996-19, passed 9-26-1996; Ord.
2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
51.999
Cross-reference:
   Pretreatment, see §§
51.160 through
51.165
§ 51.019 TAMPERING WITH SEWER SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the Wastewater Utility. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under a charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 1965-3, passed 1-20-1965; Ord. 1977-22, passed 11-
10-1977; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
51.999
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see §
130.01
§ 51.020 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries
prior to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the
rules and regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (USEPA), published in the Federal Register on November 8, 1973 (40
C.F.R. part 128), and “Federal Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for
Analysis of Pollutants”, published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973
(40 C.F.R. part 136), in addition to any more stringent requirements
established by the city and any subsequent state or federal guidelines and
rules and regulations.
   (B)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the city
and the state, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
written approval is granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
owner at his or her expense, and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
city to determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state, and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records, and shall submit to the city a monthly summary report of the
character of the influent and effluent to show performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against city monitoring records.
   (C)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling and condensing
systems, or swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is
available, or to a combined sewer approved by the city. Where a storm sewer is
not available, discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the city and by
the state. Where a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural sewer is not
available, such unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending
written approval by the city.
   (D)   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with division (C)
above.
(Ord. 1977-22, passed 11-10-1977) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 SAMPLES; REPORTS.
   (A)   The city may require users of the treatment works, other than
residential users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows
characteristics. Such measurements, tests, and analyses shall be made at the
users’ expense. If the City Engineer and/or the Wastewater Utility Manager
requests measurements, test, and analyses or other information from the user
which the user either refuses or fails to provide, the city may obtain all such
information deemed necessary with the cost for collecting, measuring, testing,
and analyses of any samples to be charged to the user as a part of the user’s
next monthly sewer utility statement.
   (B)   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic
establishment of charges provided for in §§
51.035 through
51.040, from samples taken at the aforementioned structure at any period of
time and of such duration and in such manner as the city may elect, or at any
place mutually agreed on between the user and the city. Appropriate charges for
sampling and analysis may be assessed to the user at the option of the city.
The results of routine sampling and analysis by the user may also be used for
determination of charges after verification by the city.
   (C)   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the city of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 1977-22, passed 11-10-1977; Ord. 1996-19, passed 9-26-1996; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   (A)   The city hereby elects to provide for a schedule of rates and charges
sufficient to produce a sum equal to the amount the city would have received if
the municipal Wastewater Utility owned property were privately owned and hereby
directs the Wastewater Utility Comptroller to set aside a sum equal to 3% of
the gross revenues of the Wastewater Utility and to thereafter pay monthly to
the Clerk-Treasurer for deposit into the general fund one-twelfth of the total
sum deemed sufficient to compensate the city for all sums which would have been
received were the property of the Wastewater Utility privately owned.
   (B)   The Common Council hereby determines that the schedule of rates and
charges set forth herein will provide the necessary revenue to pay the amounts
set forth above.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
SEWER CHARGES
§ 51.035 CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the Wastewater Utility shall
be charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each
user class in order that the Wastewater Utility shall recover from each user
and user class revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance, including replacement, of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based on the expected
service life of the Wastewater Utility plant and equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works, for the purposes
of §§
51.035 through
51.040, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class I, nonindustrial:
         (a)   Single-family residential;
         (b)   Multiple-family dwellings (on a single meter);
         (c)   Commercial;
         (d)   Governmental;
         (e)   Institutional; and
         (f)   Wholesale residential.
      (2)   Class II, industrial.
   (D)   Inspection fees. Any entity or individual requesting an inspection
and/or testing fee for sanitary sewer mains, manholes, lift stations, laterals,
or any other portion of a residential sewage collection system and any
facilities associated therewith, shall pay an inspection fee before the
inspector’s report and/or release approving said infrastructure shall be issued
as follows:
      (1)   A sum equal to the inspector’s total hourly rate of pay, plus
benefits, for all hours devoted to the inspection process, which shall be
invoiced to the person or entity requesting the inspection and/or testing
services at the end of the process;
      (2)   In addition, should the inspector be at the job site for more than
seven hours in any given day to conduct the inspection and/or testing of the
subject infrastructure, the applicant shall pay the inspector’s overtime rate
of pay, plus benefits, for all such time devoted on any day in excess of seven
hours, which sum shall be invoiced to the applicant requesting the inspection
and/or testing at the end of the process;
      (3)   In addition, the applicant shall pay the inspector’s vehicle
charges of $25 per day for all or part of any day the inspector devotes to
inspection and/or testing of the subject infrastructure, which shall be
invoiced at the end of the inspection and/or testing process;
      (4)   Inspection and/or testing requested to be conducted on a weekend or
holiday by the applicant is dependent upon the inspector’s availability as
these days are not part of the inspector’s normal work week and all such time
devoted by the inspector shall be paid at the end of the inspector’s overtime
rate of pay, plus benefits, which shall be invoiced to the applicant at the end
of the inspection and/or testing process, except for the provisions of division
(D)(5) below; and
      (5)   Any inspection and/or testing of an individual lateral or for non-
testing inspections, which are requested to be done and which are performed on
a weekend other than those inspections and/or testings set forth in division
(D)(4) above, shall be invoiced to the applicant and paid by the applicant in
the amount of $100 for each trip necessary to the site.
   (E)   When deemed necessary by the Wastewater Utility Manager or foreperson,
a designee of the Wastewater Utility must be on-site as an “installation
inspector” to assure city standards are upheld by the contractor.
      (1)   The “installation inspector” shall remain on-site until the
Wastewater Utility Manager and Foreperson deems the contractor to be aware of,
able, and committed to following the guidelines set forth in the city approved
construction documents.
      (2)   Fees associated with §
51.036(C) shall be the same as the rates compiled in §
51.036(D) and must be paid in full prior to testing of the wastewater
collection system.
(Ord. 1977-20, passed 11-10-1977; Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2010-9,
passed 6-23-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.036 SEWER RATES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the Wastewater Utility, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate, or building that is connected with the city sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of
the city. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges, and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows:
   (A)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water
used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges, as
the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge based
on the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise provided.
Water meters will be read once each month, and sewage service bills shall be
rendered once each month (or period equaling a month). The water usage schedule
on which the amount of said rates and charges shall be determined shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Flow rate:
 
Rate per 1,000 gallons of metered usage for all user classes inside the
corporate limits:
July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024 $6.25
July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2025 $6.63
July 1, 2025 and thereafter        $7.03
 
 
Rate per 1,000 gallons of metered usage for all user classes outside the
corporate limits:
July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024 $7.17
July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2025 $7.60
July 1, 2025 and thereafter        $8.06
 
      (2)   Base rate for all user classes inside the corporate limits are as
follows with Phase 1 to be effective from July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024,
Phase 2 to be effective from July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2025 and Phase 3 to
be effective from July 1, 2025 and thereafter:
Water Meter Size Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3
Water Meter Size                      Phase 1   Phase 2   Phase 3
5/8 inch meter                        $32.87    $34.84    $36.93
3/4 inch meter                        $32.87    $34.84    $36.93
1 inch meter                          $74.40    $78.86    $80.59
1 1/4 inch meter                      $115.76   $122.71   $130.07
1 1/2 inch meter                      $165.31   $175.23   $185.74
2 inch meter                          $281.24   $298.11   $316.00
3 inch meter                          $639.91   $678.30   $719.00
4 inch meter                          $1,108.76 $1,175.29 $1,245.81
6 inch meter                          $2,515.76 $2,666.71 $2,826.71
Industrial Strength Surcharge Rates   Phase 1   Phase 2   Phase 3
BOD - per pound in excess of 250 mg/L $0.32     $0.34     $0.36
SS - per pound in excess of 250 mg/L  $0.32     $0.34     $0.36
NH3 - per pound in excess of 20 mg/L  $0.69     $0.73     $0.77
P - per pound in excess of 10 mg/L    $1.59     $1.69     $1.79
Base rate for all user classes outside the corporate limits are as follows
with Phase 1 to be effective from July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024, Phase
2 to be effective from July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2025 and Phase 3 to be
effective from July 1, 2025 and thereafter:
5/8 inch meter                        $37.63    $39.89    $42.28
3/4 inch meter                        $37.63    $39.89    $42.28
1 inch meter                          $85.19    $90.30    $95.72
1 1/4 inch meter                      $132.54   $140.49   $148.92
1 1/2 inch meter                      $189.27   $200.63   $212.67
2 inch meter                          $322.02   $341.34   $361.82
3 inch meter                          $732.70   $776.66   $823.26
4 inch meter                          $1,269.53 $1,345.70 $1,426.44
6 inch meter                          $2,880.55 $3,053.38 $3,236.58
Industrial Strength Surcharge Rates   Phase 1   Phase 2   Phase 3
BOD - per pound in excess of 250 mg/L $0.36     $0.38     $0.40
SS - per pound in excess of 250 mg/L  $0.36     $0.38     $0.40
NH3 - per pound in excess of 20 mg/L  $0.78     $0.83     $0.88
P - per pound in excess of 10 mg/L    $1.82     $1.93     $2.05
 
   (B)   For the service rendered to the city, the city shall be subject to the
same rates and charges hereinabove provided.
   (C)   There shall be a charge of $15 per sample for each industrial sample
taken by the city. The charge shall be revised on the same basis as all other
rates and charges and shall reflect the actual cost incurred by the city. The
results of the sampling shall be the basis for excessive strength surcharges
and industrial cost recovery charges as required by PL 92-500, being 33 U.S.C.
§§ 1251 et seq., and subsequent amendments and revisions.
   (D)   The Board is authorized to enter into special rate contracts with
customers of the Wastewater Utility where clearly definable reductions in cost
to the Wastewater Utility can be determined, and such reduction shall be
limited to such reduced costs. Such proposed contracts shall be subject to the
approval of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.20) (Ord. 1965-2, passed 2-3-1965; Ord. 1977-20, passed 11-
10-1977; Ord. 1979-12, passed 7-13-1979; Ord. 1985-18, passed 7-25-1985; Ord.
1988-4, passed 4-14-1988; Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994; Ord. 2001-7, passed
4-12-2001; Ord. 2008-26, passed 9-24-2008; Ord. 2013-11, passed 10-23-2013;
Ord. 2020-17, passed 4-22-2020; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2020-
33, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 2022-26, passed 8-31-2022)
§ 51.037 WATER FURNISHED FROM OTHER THAN CITY SUPPLY; SPRINKLING RATE.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the Wastewater Utility shall be determined by
the city in such manner as the city shall reasonably elect, and the sewage
service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates. Further, as is
hereinafter provided in this section, the city may make proper allowance in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the city that such
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the city
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the city, and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the city, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the city. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this chapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his or
her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices,
or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the city for
the determination of sewage discharge. If there is no meter or any adequate and
approved method of measurement for residential lots or residential parcels of
real estate, then the service charge for such sewage service shall be $30 per
month. For all other unmetered users, the rate shall be determined by the city
on an individual basis by applying the above rates to estimated usage.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the city’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the city and, in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the city, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the city. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his, her, or their
expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the city for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   During the months of July, August, and September, all residential
customers will be eligible for the summer sewer monthly reduction, hereinafter
referred to as “SSMR” automatically if the customers were water utility
customers for each month during the immediately preceding March, April, and May
usage periods. The SSMR formula will be based upon 125% of the average usage
during the March, April, and May usage periods for determination of the related
wastewater bill for the July, August, and September billing cycles. It is
presumed that any excess water usage is related to watering lawns, flowers,
washing cars, and other summer activities where water used does not enter the
city’s sanitary sewer system. If actual water usage is less than 125% of the
computed average usage during the March, April, and May usage periods, the
residential user shall only pay for the actual water used. Simply stated, the
SSMR will be the lesser of actual water usage during July, August, and
September and the computed 125% of the average usage during the March, April,
and May usage periods.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the city’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 50,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the city that a portion of water, as measured by the water meter or meters,
does not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring
devices, or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the
city for the determination of sewage discharge.
(Prior Code, § 33.21) (Ord. 1965-2, passed 2-3-1965; Ord. 1977-20, passed 11-
10-1977; Ord. 1985-18, passed 7-25-1985; Ord. 1988-4, passed 4-14-1988; Ord.
1994-13, passed 10-27-1994; Ord. 2001-7, passed 4-12-2001; Ord. 2010-9, passed
6-23-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.038 EQUITABLE ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to industrial users, the city shall base its
charges not only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the
stronger-than-normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat
and dispose of. The city shall require the industrial user to determine the
strength and content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or
indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system in such manner and by such method
as the city may deem practicable in light of the conditions and attending
circumstances of the case, in order to determine the proper charge. The
industrial user shall furnish a central sampling point available to the city at
all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a B.O.D. of
204 milligrams per liter of fluid, suspended solids in excess of 240 milligrams
per liter of fluid, or ammonia nitrogen (NH3) in excess of 30 milligrams per
liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating stronger-than-normal domestic
waste shall be made on the following basis:
      (1)   Rate surcharge based on suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.30 per pound for suspended solids in excess of 240
milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based on B.O.D. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.30 per pound of B.O.D. for B.O.D. received in excess of 204 milligrams
per liter of fluid.
      (3)   Rate surcharge based of NH3. There shall be an additional charge of
$0.65 per pound of NH3 in excess of 30 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day B.O.D. contained in
the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of “Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes,” as written by the
American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association, the
Water Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance with “Guidelines
Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants”, regulation C.F.R.
part 136, the Federal Register on October 16, 1973.
(Prior Code, § 33.22) (Ord. 1965-2, passed 2-3-1965; Ord. 1977-20, passed 11-
10-1977; Ord. 1985-18, passed 7-25-1985; Ord. 2001-7, passed 4-12-2001; Ord.
2013-11, passed 10-23-2013)
§ 51.039 BILLING.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the
city in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the city for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
declared to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the rates or charges shall
thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates or charges shall be paid
is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
   (E)   (1)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may
remain fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing
services to the various users of user classes, the city shall cause a study to
be made within a reasonable period of time following the first 12 months of
operation after the date which this section goes into effect. Such study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users or user
classes, the financial position of the Wastewater Utility, and the adequacy of
its revenue to provide reasonable funds for operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements, and capital improvements to the waste
treatment systems.
      (2)   Thereafter, on an annual basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the city shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said studies shall be
conducted by officers or employees of the city, by a firm of certified public
accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers, which firms shall have
experience in such studies, or by such combination of officers, employees,
certified public accountants, or engineers as the city shall determine to be
best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 1977-20, passed 11-10-1977; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.040 BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
wastewater treatment plant and wastewater treatment system; for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections of the sewerage system;
and for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of such rates and
charges.
   (B)   The city is authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the city’s
sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation of
the wastewater treatment plan and wastewater treatment system, or to require
methods affecting pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the pretreatment
standards included in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit issued to the Wastewater Utility.
(Prior Code, § 33.26) (Ord. 1965-2, passed 2-3-1965; Ord. 1977-20, passed 11-
10-1977; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY
§ 51.055 CHARGES; BILLING.
   (A)   In order to comply with the federal regulations, in the case of
federal grant assistance for the construction of waste treatment works, where
it has been determined that industrial users are required to reimburse a
portion of the federal grant amount allocable to the capital cost of
constructing facilities for the treatment of industrial wastes, rates, and
charges shall be collected from each industrial user connected to the municipal
sewage works or who otherwise discharges sewage, water, or liquids, either
directly or indirectly, into the municipal waste treatment system, which
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided, and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
   (B)   (1)   The industrial cost recovery charges for the treatment of
industrial wastes shall be based on the volume of sewage flow billed to
industrial users, as determined in accordance with appropriate provisions for
determining billed flow included in §§
51.035 through
51.040. The strength and character of industrial wastes shall be measured at
the industrial users’ expense as provided for in §
51.039. The owner or industrial user shall furnish a central sampling point
available to the city at all times. In the event that measurement of the
strength and character of industrial wastes are not provided to the city on a
timely basis, the measurements of the strength and character of industrial
wastes shall be determined by the city on the basis of a sample to be taken by
the city for the purpose of appropriate billing.
      (2)   The industrial cost recovery rate for the treatment of wastes shall
be as follows:
 
Waste Factors                Charges
B.O.D. in excess of 204 mg/l $0.018 per pound
Monthly volume flow          $0.116 per 1000 gallons
S/S in excess of 240 mg/l    $0.015 per pound
 
   (C)   However, in the event an industrial user can and does show, to the
satisfaction of the city, that a portion of the total monthly billed sewage
flow is from sanitary conveniences, then the flow to which the industrial cost
recovery charge is applied shall be determined on the basis of net flow
excluding sanitary conveniences.
   (D)   The industrial cost recovery charges for treatment services shall be
prepared and billed quarterly.
   (E)   The industrial cost recovery rates and charges shall be prepared,
billed, and collected in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (F)   The industrial cost recovery charges for treatment services shall
become effective for services rendered during the first calendar quarter
following completion of construction, and shall be prepared and billed
quarterly.
(Ord. 1977-21, passed 11-10-1977)
§ 51.056 DETERMINATION OF USERS SUBJECT TO INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY.
   The city shall determine which users are subject to paying the industrial
cost recovery charges, in the following manner.
   (A)   The city shall require appropriate employees of the Wastewater Utility
to review billing records and prepare a list of all potential industrial users,
as identified in §
51.055.
   (B)   The list of all potential industrial users shall be analyzed on the
basis of data available at the utility billing office (i.e. type of business,
volume charges, excessive loading charges, estimated number of employees) for
the purpose of developing preliminary lists of probable industrial and probable
nonindustrial users.
   (C)   The city shall conduct an immediate survey of all probable industrial
users in order to substantiate the validity of classifying a particular user as
an industrial user. Each user initially classified as an industrial user shall
be notified as to its classification.
   (D)   After completing the survey of all probable industrial users, the city
shall review the list of probable nonindustrial users to determine if the
initial classification of any of these users should be reconsidered. Where
appropriate, individual users will be contacted in order to determine the
proper classification.
   (E)   After an industrial user has been notified of his or her
classification, the user may request reconsideration by furnishing data and
measurements acceptable to the city for the determination of sewage discharges.
The city shall have the right to measure and determine the strength and content
of all sewage and waste discharges, either directly or indirectly into the
city’s sanitary sewage system, in such manner and by such method as it may deem
practicable in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of each
case, in order to determine the proper user classification.
   (F)   Within a reasonable period of time following completion of the
Wastewater Utility construction project, the city shall have completed the
initial classification of all industrial users. During the first calendar year
of operation subsequent to completion of the construction project, and annually
thereafter, the city will review, classify, and reclassify all users as either
industrial or nonindustrial users based on measurements and data obtained by
the city or furnished by individual users. Normally, each user will retain his
or her classification until the next succeeding classification period. However,
if there is a substantial change in the strength, volume, or delivery flow rate
characteristics introduced into the treatment works by an individual user, then
the classification of that user may be reviewed and established during the year
in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of each case.
(Ord. 1977-21, passed 11-10-1977; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.057 BASIS FOR CHARGES.
   The basis for the industrial cost recovery rates and charges included in §
51.056 are as follows.
   (A)   Total estimated federal grant amount to be awarded for the plant
improvements and interceptor sewers under Project Number C-180611 is
approximately $4,040,000.
   (B)   The consulting engineers estimate that an equitable distribution on a
percentage basis of the total cost of construction and equipment included in
the treatment plant project would be as follows:
 
Treatment of B.O.D.              26%
Treatment of sanitary waste flow 49%
Treatment of suspended solids    25%
 
   (C)   The design capacity of the treatment plant is as follows:
      (1)   Flow: annual design flow capacity of 1,168 M.G.;
      (2)   Suspended solids: design capacity 240 mg/1, times annual flow
capacity 1168 M.G., times weight will result in 2,335,907 pounds average annual
design capacity; and
      (3)   Biochemical oxygen demand: design capacity 204 mg/l times annual
flow capacity 1168 M.G., times weight will result in 1,985,521 pounds average
annual design capacity.
   (D)   Industrial cost recovery period will be 30 years.
   (E)   Average annual basis for the cost recovery charge will amount to
$134,667 ($4,040,000 federal grant divided by 30-years recovery period) for
treatment.
   (F)   The annual basis for the cost recovery charge allocated to treatment
functions is as follows:
 
Treatment of waste volume
($134,667 x 49%) = $65,987
Treatment of suspended solids
($134,667 x 25%) = $33,667
Treatment of B.O.D.
($134,667 x 26%) = $35,013
 
   (G)   The industrial cost recovery rates for the treatment charges are
computed on the basis of the annual functional costs of treatment divided by
average annual design capacity in the following manner:
      (1)   Treatment of waste volume. Annual functional cost of $65,987
divided by annual capacity of 1,168 M.G. equals $.0565 per 1000 gallons;
      (2)   Treatment of suspended solids. Annual functional cost of $33,667
divided by annual capacity of 2,335,907 pounds equals $.015 per pound; and
      (3)   Treatment of biochemical oxygen demand. Annual functional cost of
$35,013 divided by annual capacity of 1,985,521 pounds equals $.018 per pound.
   (H)   The rates computed in division (G) above would result in total
recovery of the federal grant amount if all users were subject to the
industrial cost recovery requirements, and provided that the treatment plant
was used to capacity during the cost recovery period. Therefore, these rates
will ensure that each industrial user will pay only that portion of the federal
grant amount applicable to the costs of the treatment facilities actually
utilized to treat industrial wastes, as determined by each industrial user’s
flow and pollutant loadings.
(Ord. 1977-21, passed 11-10-1977)
§ 51.058 WASTEWATER UTILITY INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY FUND.
   The city shall account for all industrial cost recovery payments in the
following manner:
   (A)   All revenues derived from the industrial cost recovery rates and
charges shall be segregated and kept in a special fund, separate and apart from
all other funds of the city. The special fund is hereby designated the “Sewage
Works Industrial Cost Recovery Fund”, and payment of said amount into said fund
shall be deemed a reasonable expense of operation of the Wastewater Utility for
the purpose of computing net operating revenue.
   (B)   Within 45 days following the end of the first calendar year after
completion of construction of the sewage facilities, and annually thereafter,
the city shall return 50% of the amounts recovered through the industrial cost
recovery charges, together with any interest earned thereon, to the U.S.
Treasury. Pending use, the city shall invest the retained amounts for
reconstruction and expansion in obligations of the U.S. government; obligations
guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S. government or any agency
thereof; or in accounts fully collateralized by obligations of the U.S.
government or by obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by
the U.S. government or any agency thereof.
   (C)   Eighty percent of the funds retained by the city in the “Sewage Works
Industrial Cost Recovery Fund” or authorized investments and the interest
earned thereon shall be expended only for the purpose of eligible costs of
expansion or reconstruction of the treatment works. The city shall obtain the
written approval of the Regional Administrator of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency prior to commitment of the retained amounts for any expansion
and reconstruction. The remaining 20% of the funds retained by the city may be
utilized for any authorized use associated with the Wastewater Utility.
(Ord. 1977-21, passed 11-10-1977; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.059 INSPECTIONS.
   On request from the EPA, the city shall encourage each industrial user to
permit representatives of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to review
appropriate industrial sewage records for the purpose of independently
verifying the flow and characteristics of industrial wastes which are
introduced into the treatment works. No waste introduced into the wastewater
treatment system shall interfere with the operation or performance of the
wastewater treatment plant. All users are subject to the requirements of
pretreatment standards established by federal and state law.
(Ord. 1977-21, passed 11-10-1977; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Pretreatment, see §§
51.160 through
51.165
SEWER CONNECTION COSTS
§ 51.070 AVAILABILITY COSTS.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, no connection to
any city-owned interceptor or trunk sanitary sewer shall be allowed until a
permit is obtained and payment, or satisfactory surety for payment, has been
made into the city “Interceptor Expansion Fund” which is a depository for
interceptor extension funds. This is a connection cost intended to provide
funds for future extensions, improvements, or additions to the sewage
facilities, as contemplated by I.C. 36-9-23-17 and 36-9-23-18. These costs,
designated as “availability costs”, shall be, from time to time, updated and
fixed by the city. Commencing July 1, 2020, for properties located within the
corporate limits of the city, said availability costs shall be in the amount of
$3,000 per acre of ground to be served by the interceptor or trunk sewer system
developed by the city. Commencing July 1, 2020, for properties located outside
the corporate limits of the city, the availability costs shall be in the amount
of $3,450 per acre to be served by the interceptor or trunk sewer system
developed by the city. However, the owners of real estate applying for service
may make payment by platted sections before they are approved and recorded, but
in no event shall any subdivision or final plats be approved or building
permits issued until satisfactory proof, or surety of payment, is on file with
the city. The availability costs of $3,000 per acre located within the
corporate limits of the city, and $3,450 per acre located outside the corporate
limits of the city, will be allocated to and paid into the project cost of the
specific interceptor extension (off-site interceptor and on-site oversizing)
for which it is paid. Project costs in all cases shall expressly include
construction costs, legal fees, engineering expenses, inspection costs, project
administrative costs, and easement acquisition costs. All elements of these
project costs must be disbursed by the city from the funds deposited as
availability costs for that specific project. If the entire availability cost
at the rate of $3,000 per acre for properties located within the corporate
limits of the city or $3,450 for properties located outside the corporate
limits of the city, is not needed for interceptor extension, the excess, if
any, will remain in the fund, to be disbursed for other interceptor extension
projects.
   (B)   Acreage availability costs for interceptor or trunk sewer construction
may, at the city’s discretion, be excluded for areas platted for use as
cemeteries, golf courses, or parks.
(Ord.1972-17, passed 1-18-1973; Ord. 1985-18, passed 7-25-1985; Ord. 1995-7,
passed 6-9-1995; Ord. 2008-26, passed 9-24-2008; Ord. 2020-17, passed 4-22-
2020)
§ 51.071 ADDITIONAL FUNDS CONTRIBUTED.
   (A)   Acreage availability costs shall be strictly nonrefundable.
   (B)   If, in order to extend the interceptor or trunk sewer, additional
funds are necessary to extend or oversize the sanitary sewer to the owners of
real estate, the additional funds advanced or contributed by the owners of real
estate for the extension or oversizing to meet the city’s requirements are
refundable, without interest, but only from funds deposited at a future date by
owners of real estate under such terms and conditions as the city shall, from
time to time, set forth. These additional funds must be first deposited with
the city and disbursed in a manner prescribed by the city if the funds are to
qualify for refunding.
   (C)   In no event will any of the city sewer system revenues be used,
committed, or encumbered to repay any such funds advanced or contributed, nor
will the city’s general funds be used, committed, or encumbered to repay any
such funds, advanced or contributed.
   (D)   It is expressly declared that such repayment, if any, will be repaid
only from deposits outstanding in the Interceptor Expansion Fund, first-in,
first-out.
(Ord. 1972-17, passed 1-18-1973)
§ 51.072 OVERSIZING COSTS.
   Refunding of costs for oversizing to meet the city specifications shall be
made only as to that portion of the oversizing which lies in the real estate
owner’s development. In the event the availability costs per acre do not
provide sufficient funds to extend or oversize the interceptor or trunk sewer
as needed, no construction permit will be issued by the city unless the owners
of real estate desire to advance and pay the excess project costs. If
oversizing of sewage lift stations or oversizing or extensions of local sewers
constructed within their development by owners of real estate are necessary to
deliver sewage from other areas to an interceptor or from one interceptor to
another, such oversizing or extension costs will be considered as part of the
interceptor costs and not part of the on-site local sewer costs and, as such,
are refundable.
(Ord. 1972-17, passed 1-18-1973)
§ 51.073 INDIVIDUAL CONNECTION TO SEWERS.
   (A)   (1)   Where an individual connection is sought for developed areas
already being served by an interceptor or trunk sewer and local sewers, a
connection charge shall be paid to the city which shall be based upon the size
of the water meter. Only one water meter, of adequate size to properly serve
the facility, shall be permitted in a structure/building.
      (2)   The connection charges shall be as follows:
Water Meter Size (Inches) 10-01-2008 7-01-2009 1-01-2010
Water Meter Size (Inches) 10-01-2008 7-01-2009 1-01-2010
5/8—3/4                 $1,000     $1,100    $1,200
1                         $2,500     $2,750    $3,000
1-1/4                     $4,000     $4,400    $4,800
1-1/2                     $5,800     $6,380    $6,960
2                         $10,000    $11,000   $12,000
3                         $23,000    $25,300   $30,000
4                         $40,000    $44,000   $48,000
 
      (3)   The above schedule reflects the initial sewage connection fees.
After the initial connection is made, if the service is ever up-graded from the
initial service to a larger service, the owner shall pay the difference between
the connection fees for the larger service and the existing service that is
effective at such time.
   (B)   Except for single-family residences where a user has consumed metered
water for a continuous 12-month period beginning six months after time of
connection, the city will review its unit cost set forth for the preceding 12-
month metered period and will adjust the unit cost in accordance with actual
usage, either upward or downward, as the metered usage reflects. This
adjustment will determine the unit cost for the particular user and no further
adjustment will thereafter be made. For the purpose of reviewing the unit cost,
the usage of a single-family residence will be considered 6,000 gallons per
month.
(Ord. 1972-17, passed 1-18-1973; Ord. 1976-9, passed 5-14-1976; Ord. 1989-9,
passed 6-22-1989; Ord. 2001-7, passed 4-12-2001; Ord. 2008-26, passed 9-24-
2008; Ord. 2010-9, passed 6-23-2010)
§ 51.074 OWNERSHIP.
   All extensions to the sanitary sewer system must be accepted by the city
before connection and, once connected, shall be and remain thereafter the sole
property of the city without further dedication thereof.
(Ord. 1972-17, passed 1-18-1973)
§ 51.075 OFF-SITE SEWERS.
   All plans for interceptor or trunk sewers to be installed outside the area
being developed by the applicant for sewer service (hereinafter called off-site
sewers) shall be prepared by the city. All easements shall be made in favor of
the city and shall be obtained by and, if necessary, paid for by the owners of
the real estate. Easements shall also be in a form approved by the city. The
owners of real estate applying for interceptor or trunk sewer service shall
deposit with the city adequate funds or surety of payment to pay engineering
and appurtenant nonconstruction project costs prior to the city proceeding with
preparation of plans. If the project does not proceed to completion after
project costs are established, the money so deposited by the owners of real
estate shall be nonrefundable and will be used to pay incurred expenses. If the
funds are in excess of expenses, they will be returned to the owners of real
estate making the deposit. If the project is completed, the deposit will be
credited to the total project cost as defined in §
51.070(A).
(Ord. 1972-17, passed 1-18-1973)
§ 51.076 ON-SITE SEWERS.
   The owners of real estate obtaining a permit for interceptor or trunk sewers
shall submit plans for on-site sewers, including interceptors, or trunk sewers
to be constructed within his or her development to the city for review and
approval before start of construction. During construction of the on-site
sewers, the owners of real estate shall pay the expense of an inspector for the
city, and, on completion of construction, shall provide certified “as-built”
construction drawings to the city. If “as-built” drawings are not provided
within three months after completion of construction, the city may prepare
these drawings at the expense of the owners of the real estate. The city will
provide the inspector or may approve, in writing, some person designated by the
owners of real estate. In any case, the owners of real estate will pay the
costs thereof to the city, which will, in turn, pay the inspector.
(Ord. 1972-17, passed 1-18-1973)
§ 51.077 CONNECTIONS IN DEVELOPED AREAS.
   (A)   If individual applicants for sewage service in already developed
acreage or platted subdivisions wish to be served by an interceptor or trunk
sewer and local sewers, they shall obtain a permit and deposit adequate funds
with the city to pay engineering and appurtenant costs prior to the
authorization of such design by the city and the receipt of bids. If the
project does not proceed to completion after project costs are established, the
money so deposited by individual applicants shall be nonrefundable and used to
pay incurred expenses. If monies are in excess of expenses, the excess will be
returned to the individual making the deposit.
   (B)   If the project, on the other hand, is completed, the deposit of
individual applicants shall be credited to the individual’s costs outlined in §
51.078. If a connection is made to an interceptor, trunk, or local sewer
without obtaining a permit and paying the required availability, connection,
and local sewer costs, the individual or owner of real estate will be subject
to a fine of $150 a day for each day the connection was unlawfully installed,
and shall be required to remove the connection until the requirements of this
subchapter are met.
(Ord. 1972-17, passed 1-18-1973)
§ 51.078 INDIVIDUAL CONNECTION COSTS.
   If already developed acreage or platted subdivisions are to be served by an
interceptor or trunk sewer and local sewers, in addition to the connection
costs designated in §
51.073 above, there shall be added to each individual connection cost an amount
which shall be computed as follows:
   (A)   Availability costs. Three thousand dollars per acre prorated as to a
fraction thereof, which amount shall not be refundable; and
   (B)   Local sewer costs. Each lot shall pay a prorated share of the project
costs, computed on the basis of dividing the project costs by a total number of
sewer connections desirous of service. Project costs shall include construction
costs, as determined by public bids, and nonconstruction costs. Nonconstruction
costs shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, legal fees, engineering
expenses, inspection costs, preparation of assessment roles, and projects
administrative costs.
(Ord. 1972-17, passed 1-18-1973; Ord. 1989-9, passed 6-22-1989; Ord. 1995-7,
passed 6-9-1995)
§ 51.079 REPAYMENT TO INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTORS.
   Repayment for future connections made to the local sewer shall be reimbursed
on the basis of I.C. 36-9-39.
(Ord. 1972-17, passed 1-18-1973)
§ 51.080 ALLOCATION OF RECEIPTS.
   The individual connection fee provided for in §
51.073 shall be collected by the city and deposited into the WWTPC Connection
Fund #6207. All monies deposited into said fund may be used for, but not
limited to, general capacity upgrades, maintenance, and regulatory compliance,
as well as for expansion or improvement of the municipal sewage disposal plant
and for the extension of sewer collection system infrastructure and all
component parts thereof.
(Ord. 2009-21, passed 10-28-2009; Ord. 2024-06, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 51.081 REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL CONNECTIONS.
   Whenever an individual connection is made into an interceptor, trunk, or
local sewer, a saddle, “T”,or “Y” shall be used when connecting into the sewer
lines. All connections shall be firmly bedded in sand or granular backfill.
(Ord. 1976-9, passed 5-14-1976)
§ 51.082 SEWER REHABILITATION PROJECT GENERAL FORMAT.
   The project shall be directed by the City Engineer and/or the Wastewater
Utility Manager, who are hereafter referred to as the “Project Director”, city
personnel and/or a private contractor authorized by the Board of Works and
Public Safety through a normal bidding process and shall complete the
rehabilitation work. When determined by the Project Director, and agreed upon
by the contractor, the Wastewater Utility Manager may renew the contract for
one year when it is in the city’s best interest to do so. The area for
rehabilitation will be determined by the Project Director, who will notify the
affected parties by a hand delivered flier or other approved notification
manner. The contractor will be instructed as to the appropriate rehabilitation
methods for that area. The sewer mains, laterals, and associated manholes will
be repaired or replaced as instructed by the Project Director. The Project
Director will determine the length of each private lateral replacement, which
at a minimum, will be from the sewer main to a location approximately two feet
from the building foundation. Decorative landscaping, decks, or other
structures may prohibit the length of the lateral replacement. Pre-televising
of the mains and laterals will determine the sewer lines that will receive
repairs or replacement. A purchased home, rental home, business, commercial
establishment, or other structure approved by the Project Director will be
included in the rehabilitation project. Along with a one year warranty on
workpersonship, all streets, sidewalks, lawns, easements, or other items
involved in the sewer rehabilitation are the responsibility of the contractor
to repair unless other arrangements have been made with the Project Director.
Ownership of the private laterals remains with the owner and in no way relieves
the responsibility of maintenance or upkeep by the owner as required by
previous sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 6-25-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.083 DEPRECIATION FUND.
   There is hereby created a depreciation fund as required by I.C. 8-1-2-19 to
be denominated as WWTPC Depreciation Fund #6203. Deposits in the said fund
shall consist of all or a portion of the net revenues of the utility after bond
payments as authorized by the Common Council through its annual budgeting
process. Said funds may be utilized for, but not limited to, extensions,
replacements, and/or additions to the utility infrastructure and to increase
capacity.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 3-13-2024)
POTW - GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.095 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter (the “POTW subchapter”) sets forth uniform
requirements for users of the publicly owned treatment works for the city, and
enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws,
including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.) and the General
Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403). The objectives of this
subchapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      (6)   To enable the city to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination systems permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements,
and any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works
is subject.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned
treatment works. The subchapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge
permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.096 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Wastewater Utility Manager shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Any
powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Wastewater Utility Manager may be
delegated by the Wastewater Utility Manager to other city personnel.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.097 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this subchapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical Oxygen Demand - Five Day
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD   Chemical Oxygen Demand
EPA    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency - Washington D.C.
FOG    Fats, oil, and grease
gpd    gallons per day
I.C.   Indiana Code
I/I    Inflow and Infiltration (Clear Water Flow)
IDEM   Indiana Department of Environmental Management
IWP    Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit
mg/l   milligrams per liter
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
O & G  Oil and grease
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
Reg. V Agency, Region V - Chicago, Illinois
SIC    Standard Industrial Classification
SNC    Significant noncompliance
SIU    Significant industrial user
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
WDP    Wastewater discharge permit
 
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.098 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of the POTW subchapters, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The State Department of Environmental Management.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding 25 million dollars, if authority to sign
documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with
corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or his or her
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the Board.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with §
307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a specific category
of users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405-471.
   CLEAR WATER FLOW. Groundwater or precipitation related water which enters
the sanitary sewer collection system through pipe defects (infiltration) or
conduits (inflow).
   COMBINED SEWER. Sewer which carries both sanitary and stormwater flow by
design.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLING. Method of sampling weights sample volume with discharge
flow rate.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The State Department of Environmental Management or, upon
the delegation of local authority by the State Department of Environmental
Management, the city.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Region V Water Management Division Director,
or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by the EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act.
   FATS, OILS, AND GREASE. Organic polar compound derived from animal or plant
sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 C.F.R. § 136 as amended. All are sometimes referred to herein
as “grease”or “greases.”
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream without regard to
the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   GREASE TRAP. A device for separating and retaining waterborne grease and
grease complex prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the
sanitary sewer and collection system.
   GREASE TRAP/INTERCEPTOR MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY. The design features of a
grease trap/interceptor and its ability of volume required to effectively
intercept and retain greases from grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the
public sanitary sewer.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the
Act.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the
analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent of the
industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources does one of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods;
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit,
including an increase in magnitude or duration of a violation; and
      (3)   Prevents the use of the POTW’s sewage sludge or its sludge disposal
method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345);
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. § 6901),
including:
            1.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
            2.   The rules contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. § 6941).
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401); and
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. § 2601).
   LOADING BASED LIMITATION. A measure of pollutant expressed in lb/day. It is
calculated by the following formula: pollutant concentration expressed in mg/
l x pollutant flow expressed in MGD x 8.34 (weight of one gallon of water) -
pollutant load expressed in tlb/day.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site on which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of this section but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing
process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this division (3) has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which is intended to be used in its operation within
a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
subsection.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city’s NPDES permit (IN0020109), including an increase in
the magnitude or duration of a violation.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD5, COD, toxicity, metals, dissolved metals, solids,
dissolved solids, odor, and the like).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS OR PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
51.111.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A “treatment works”, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the city. This definition
includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature
and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   SAND INTERCEPTOR. A structure or device designed for the purpose of removing
and preventing fats, oils, and grease from entering the sanitary sewer
collection systems. These devices are often below-ground units outside and are
built as two or three chamber baffled tanks.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL USER (SIU).
      (1)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   A user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the Board on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (3)   Upon a finding by the Board that a user meeting the criteria in
division (2) has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the Board
may, at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received
from a user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403 8(f)(6),
determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC). For compliance provisions of the POTW
subchapters, SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC) is defined as follows:
      (1)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits:
         (a)   Chronic violations. Sixty-six percent or more of the
measurements exceed the same daily maximum limit or the same average limit in a
six-month period;
         (b)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC). Thirty-three percent or more of
the measurements exceed the same daily maximum limit or the same average limit
by more than the TRC in a six-month period. There are two groups of TRCs:
            1.   Group I for conventional pollutants (BOD5, COD, TSS, fats,
oil, and grease). TRC = 1.4 (40%); and
            2.   Group II for all other pollutants. TRC = 1.2 (20%).
         (c)   Violations. Any violation(s) of an effluent limit (average or
daily maximum) that the Wastewater Utility Manager believes has caused, along
or in combination with other discharges, interference (such as slug loads) or
pass-through; or endangered the health of the sewage treatment personnel or the
public; and
         (d)   Authority to halt. Any discharge of a pollutant which has caused
imminent endangerment to human health/welfare or to the environment and
resulted in the POTW’s exercise of this emergency authority to halt or prevent
such a discharge.
      (2)   Violation of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a local
control mechanism or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
scheduled date;
      (3)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedules, self-
monitoring data, or categorical standards (baseline monitoring reports, 90-day
compliance reports, and periodic reports) within 30 days from due date;
      (4)   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; and
      (5)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Wastewater
Utility Manager considers to be significant.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could
cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
51.111.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant to
the “Standard Industrial Classification Manual”, issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is an unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical standards or permitted pretreatment
standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the industrial
user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, bypass of
treatment units, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the city or the State
Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) to a user of the Wastewater
Utility which establishes specific conditions and requirements.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW which
is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.099 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Should the provisions of the POTW subchapters conflict with any other
provisions of the Code of Ordinances, the provisions as contained within the
POTW subchapters shall be deemed to control and supersede any conflicting
provisions contained elsewhere within said Code of Ordinances. All prior
ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with the POTW subchapters are
hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
POTW - GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.110 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   This POTW subchapter sets forth general requirements for all users of the
sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.111 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorized pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazards in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.0 without
written consent from the Wastewater Utility Manager, or otherwise causing
corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference. Total suspended solids
levels in excess of 240 mg/l daily average may be subject to a surcharge per §
51.112;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW. BOD levels in excess of 205 mg/l daily average may be subject to
a surcharge per §
51.112;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65°C), or which
will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at a
location 1,000 feet downstream from the point of introduction to exceed 104°F
(40°C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW sewers including in a quantity that may cause acute
worker health and safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Wastewater Utility Manager in accordance with §
51.113;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby causing the city’s NPDES permit requirements to be violated;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (12)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, sump pumps, dechlorinated swimming pool water,
condensate, deionized water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted
wastewater, unless specifically authorized by the Wastewater Utility Manager;
      (13)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Wastewater Utility Manager in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test; and
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the POTW.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.112 ABNORMAL WASTE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   In the event the approving authority excludes a user from the
requirements of §
51.111 and the user discharges abnormal industrial wastes to the public
sanitary sewerage system having an average TSS in excess of 240 mg/l or an
average of five-day BOD in excess of 204 mg/l, or an average of COD in excess
of 500 mg/l, the user shall pay a surcharge based upon the excess strength of
his or her wastes.
   (B)   The costs of treatment for each pound of BOD, suspended solids, or
grease removed by each treatment works shall be reviewed by the city annually.
If a discrepancy exists between the actual costs as found by the city and the
estimated costs, the BOW shall increase or decrease the surcharge rates
sufficiently to cover only the projected actual costs for the ensuing year.
   (C)   No reduction in sewerage service charges, fees, or taxes will be
permitted because of the fact that certain industrial wastes discharged to the
public sanitary sewerage system contain less than 240 mg/l of total suspended
solids, or 204 mg/l BOD.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.113 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 C.F.R. chapter 1,
subchapter N, parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Wastewater Utility Manager may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Wastewater
Utility Manager shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream
formula in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from the Board from a categorical
pretreatment standard if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and
substantive provisions in 40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its
discharge are fundamentally different from the factors considered by the EPA
when developing the categorical pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain from the Board a net gross adjustment to a
categorical standard in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.114 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The following pollutant limitations are established to protect against
pass through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing
in excess of the following concentrations based upon a 24-hour composite
sample. Additionally, no person shall discharge wastewater containing in excess
of 1.5 times the following concentrations for any grab sample. Since analytical
procedures do not allow for composite sampling techniques when sampling for
Hexavalent Chromium and Cyanide, three grab samples shall be analyzed with no
single result exceeding the concentration.
0.1   mg/l Cadmium (total)[2]
30    mg/l Chlorine
0.13  mg/l Hexavalent Chromium [3]
2.77  mg/l Total Chrome [2]
2.6   mg/l Copper (total)[3]
0.2   mg/l Cyanide (total)[3]
0.4   mg/l Lead (total)[3]
.0003 mg/l Mercury (total)[3]
2.9   mg/l Nickel (total)[3]
100   mg/l Oil and grease [1]
2.6   mg/l Zinc (total)[3]
0.85  mg/l Silver (total)
[1]   As an alternative to the total oil and grease limitations established by this
section, the Wastewater Utility Manager may establish in an IWP a limitation of 100
mg/l for non-polar grease. The alternative limitation is subject to the following
conditions:
   1.   The user submits an application for the alternative limit;
   2.   The user provides information regarding the user’s products, processes, and
operations that show to the Wastewater Utility Manager’s satisfaction that the oil and
grease discharged by the user is predominantly of animal or vegetable origin;
   3.   The user shows that the oil and grease in the user’s discharges is not
visible, free, or floating at 50°F at any time;
   4.   The user has sampling facilities that allow for both visual inspection of the
user’s discharge and using the equipment necessary for collection samples for
floatable oil and grease;
   5.   The oil and grease in the user’s discharge is not related to past instances of
obstruction, interference, or pass through;
   6.   Users subject to the alternative limit shall continue to operate and maintain
grease traps and any other oil and grease separation and treatment equipment and shall
continue all existing practices that reduce discharges of oil and grease;
   7.   If the Wastewater Utility Manager determines that a user subject to the
alternative limit has caused, alone or in conjunction with other discharges,
obstruction, interference, or pass through, then the user shall comply with the total
oil and grease limitation or another appropriate limitation established by the
district in the user’s IWP; and
   8.   Any other appropriate conditions set forth in the user’s permit.
[2]   EPA PSES Categorical Standard (40 C.F.R. part 433).
[3]   EPA Table 1 Spreadsheet - “Local Limit Determination Based on NPDES Daily
Limits”.
 
   (B)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for “total” metal
unless indicated otherwise. The Wastewater Utility Manager may impose mass
limitations in addition to, or in place of, the concentration-based limitations
above.
   (C)   Upon the promulgation of the National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard (NCPS) from the EPA for a particular user, the said standard, if more
stringent than the limitations imposed under the POTW subchapters for sources
in that category shall, when effective, immediately supersede the limitations
and conditions imposed under this subchapter. The city, when acting as the
permitting authority, shall notify all known affected users of the applicable
permitting and reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2015-6, passed 7-8-2015; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.115 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The Board has the right to establish, by ordinance or in wastewater
discharge permits if issued by the city, more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the POTW.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.116 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. Wastewater
Utility Manager may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.117 RECORDS RETENTION.
   All records and information resulting from the monitoring activities
required by the POTW subchapters, the applicable pretreatment permit or
specific information requested by the city, including, but not limited to, all
records of analysis performed and calibration and maintenance of
instrumentation and recording from continuous monitoring instrumentation, shall
be maintained for a minimum of three years. This period shall be automatically
extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user, IDEM, the U.S.
EPA, or the city, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Wastewater Utility Manager, IDEM, or the U.S. EPA.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling; the
name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed;
who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; the
results of such analyses; and any other information as may be requested by the
Wastewater Utility Manager.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.118 REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLES.
   Effluent samples and measurements taken as required by this subchapter, the
applicable pretreatment permit, or specifically requested by the city, shall be
representative of the volume and nature of the discharge flow and shall be
taken at times which reflect the full range and concentration of effluent
pollutants normally expected to be present. Samples shall not be taken at times
to avoid showing elevated levels of any pollutant.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.119 REQUEST FOR INFORMATION.
   The user shall furnish the city, within a reasonable period of time, any
information which the city may request to determine compliance with the POTW
subchapters or the applicable pretreatment permit. Requested information may
include, but is not limited to, sampling data, waste disposal records, and
maintenance records.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.120 ADDITIONAL MONITORING BY PERMITTEE.
   If the user monitors an effluent pollutant more frequently than required by
the POTW subchapters, the applicable pretreatment permit, or specifically
requested monitoring, the results of such monitoring shall be included in the
calculations and reporting of values.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.121 MINIMIZE ADVERSE IMPACT.
   The user shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or correct any adverse
impact on the environment and the POTW resulting from noncompliance with this
ordinance or the applicable pretreatment permit. Reasonable steps, for the
purpose of this section, include, but are not limited to, installation of
continuous monitoring equipment or installation of such pretreatment devices as
required to meet the conditions of this subchapter or the applicable
pretreatment permit. During periods of noncompliance, the user shall conduct
such accelerated or additional monitoring for the affected pollutant
parameters, as appropriate, or as requested by the Wastewater Utility Manager,
to determine the nature and impact of the noncompliance.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.122 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The user shall, at all times, maintain in good working order and
efficiently operate all facilities and systems (and related appurtenances) for
treatment that are installed and used by the user, and necessary for achieving
compliance with the terms and conditions the POTW subchapters or the applicable
pretreatment permit.
   (B)   The user shall operate all facilities in a manner which will minimize
upsets and discharges of excessive pollutants.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
POTW - GREASE TRAP/INTERCEPTOR COMPLIANCE (FATS, GREASE, AND OILS)
§ 51.135 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   The purpose of this section is to aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockage and obstructions from contribution and accumulation of fats, oils and
grease into the sanitary sewer system usually from, but not limited to,
industrial and commercial establishments, particularly food preparation and
serving facilities. This section is applicable to all users that discharge
significant quantities of fats, oils, or greases, as defined by the Wastewater
Utility Manager, to any part of the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.136 GENERAL GREASE TRAP/INTERCEPTOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Grease trap/interceptor design, sizing, and installation shall conform
to the current edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code and shall be construed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature.
   (B)   No grease trap/interceptor shall be installed under sinks. Location of
the grease trap/interceptor must meet the approval of the City Engineer.
   (C)   At least one access manhole, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches
shall be provided over each grease trap/interceptor chamber. Such access must
be in an area accessible to city inspection staff at all times. The access
manholes shall extend to at least the finished grade and be designed and
maintained to prevent water inflow or infiltration. The manhole shall also have
readily removable covers to facilitate inspection, grease removal, and
wastewater sampling activities. Additional access manholes may be required to
provide maintenance and inspection access to all portions of the grease trap.
   (D)   The user shall maintain a written record of inspection and maintenance
for five years. All such records will be made available for on-site inspection
by a representative of the city during all operating hours.
   (E)   All chemical and biological cleaning materials designed to liquefy
grease for the intention of cleaning and degrading materials within grease
traps/interceptors or associated conveyances are prohibited.
   (F)   Grease traps/interceptors shall be maintained by the user, at his or
her expense, in efficient operating conditions by periodic removal of the
accumulated grease. No such collected grease shall be introduced into any
drainage piping or public or private sewer.
   (G)   Grease traps/interceptors in service prior to the POTW subchapters are
not required to be modified unless the water has a process modification,
significant changes in operation warrants modification or replacement, or the
Wastewater Utility Manager deems the existing grease trap/interceptor
ineffective and potentially detrimental to the POTW.
   (H)   The city maintains the right to access and clean any grease trap/
interceptor as determined necessary by the city. The owner of such
establishments shall be responsible for all costs associated with such access
and cleaning and shall, upon notice, promptly reimburse the city for all costs.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.137 GREASE TRAP/INTERCEPTOR PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. The Wastewater Utility Manager shall issue a grease
trap/interceptor permit to all known users within 180 days of ordinance
adoption. An application for such permit shall be sent to each known user
within 60 days of ordinance.
   (B)   Grease trap/interceptor permit contents. The following information
shall be contained in each grease trap/interceptor permit that is issued:
      (1)   Permit duration;
      (2)   Permit reporting requirements;
      (3)   Enforcement procedures;
      (4)   Annual permit fee;
      (5)   Maintenance requirements; and
      (6)   Permit transferability.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.138 GREASE TRAP/INTERCEPTOR PERMIT DURATION.
   (A)   A grease trap/interceptor permit, as issued by the city, shall be
issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five years from the effective
date of the permit.
   (B)   A grease trap/interceptor permit may be issued for a period less than
five years, at the discretion of Wastewater Utility Manager. Each permit will
indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.139 GREASE TRAP/INTERCEPTOR PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Grease trap/interceptor permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 30 days advance notice to the
Wastewater Utility Manager and the Wastewater Utility Manager approves the
permit transfer. The notice to the Wastewater Utility Manager must include a
written certification by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.140 GREASE TRAP/INTERCEPTOR PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Wastewater Utility Manager may revoke a grease trap/interceptor permit
for good cause, which good cause shall include, but not be limited to, any one
or more of the following reasons:
   (A)   Failure to notify the Wastewater Utility Manager of significant
changes to the nature and volume of the discharged wastewater prior to such
changes;
   (B)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application;
   (C)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
   (D)   Tampering with monitoring equipment installed by the Wastewater
Utility Manager or representatives for the purposes of conducting monitoring
activities to determine compliance with the appropriate wastewater discharge
permit, federal, or state regulations and any ordinances governing the
discharge of wastewater to the POTW;
   (E)   Refusing to allow the Wastewater Utility Manager, or the Wastewater
Utility Manager’s agent, access to the facility premises and/or records when
requested to do so;
   (F)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
   (G)   Failure to pay fines;
   (H)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
   (I)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
   (J)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the grease trap/interceptor
permit application;
   (K)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility;
   (L)   Grease trap/interceptor permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership; or
   (M)   All grease trap/interceptor permits issued to a particular user are
void upon the issuance of a new grease trap/interceptor permit to that user.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.141 GREASE TRAP/INTERCEPTOR PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The Wastewater Utility Manager may modify a grease trap/interceptor permit
for good cause, which good cause shall include, but not be limited to, any one
or more of the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
grease trap/interceptor permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the city’s POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the grease trap/interceptor
permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the grease trap/interceptor permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the grease trap/
interceptor permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.142 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permittees shall report all required monitoring results and
maintenance activities on a frequency as determined by the applicable permit
and submit results to the Wastewater Utility Manager or appropriate control
authority.
   (B)   Additional reporting requirements, including, but not limited to,
provision of all requested documentation, manifests, or any other requested
documents.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.143 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND ENTRY.
   The SIU shall allow the Wastewater Utility Manager, or an authorized
representative, upon the presentation of credentials, to:
   (A)   Enter upon the user’s premises, without any preconditions, except
those listed in this section, where a regulated facility or activity is located
or conducted, or where records must be kept under the condition of this
subchapter or the applicable grease trap/interceptor permit;
   (B)   Have access to and copy, at any time requested, any records that are
required to be kept by this subchapter or the applicable grease trap/
interceptor permit;
   (C)   Inspect, at any time requested, any facilities, equipment (including
monitoring and control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or
required under this subchapter or the applicable grease trap/interceptor
permit;
   (D)   Sample or monitor, for the purposes of determining compliance with
this subchapter or the applicable grease trap/interceptor permit, any
substances or parameters at any locations; and
   (E)   Inspect any production, manufacturing, fabricating, or storage area
where pollutants, regulated under this subchapter or the applicable grease
trap/interceptor permit, could originate, be stored, or be discharged to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.144 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All grease trap/interceptor permit applications and user reports must be
signed by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.145 APPLICATION FEE.
   The application fee, which shall accompany any application for an initial,
renewal, or transfer of a grease trap/interceptor permit, shall be in the sum
of $25.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.146 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Wastewater Utility Manager is authorized to enforce the provisions of §§
51.135 through
51.145 in any or all of the following manners:
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of §§
51.145,
51.146,
51.267,
51.280, and
51.281, in addition to the other enforcement actions set forth below;
   (B)   Upon determination that a permittee has failed to comply with the
terms of their grease trap/interceptor permit, a written notice of violation
shall be mailed First Class, U.S. Mail, to the address on the permit and/or
hand delivered to the permit location informing the permit holder of the nature
of the violation, the fine imposed for the violation, as well as the time and
manner within which the violation must be corrected;
   (C)   Should the notice of violation be for the permit holder failing to
report in a comprehensive manner and the time set forth in the permit
conditions, a fine of $50 shall be imposed;
   (D)   If after receipt of a notice of violation, the permittee fails to come
into compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in their permit within
14 days of said notice of violation being mailed and/or delivered to the permit
location, an additional fine of $250 for each day after the fourteenth day from
the date of notice shall be imposed with each day thereafter constituting a
separate and distinct offense; and
   (E)   For any other violation of the terms and/or conditions of the grease
trap/interceptor permit, other than a reporting violation, notice of said
violation shall be given in the same manner as set forth above and a fine of up
to $2,500 for each day the violation continues to exist may be imposed.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
POTW - PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 51.160 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   The purpose of this section is to set out minimum pretreatment guidelines
for any contributor to the POTW.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.161 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
subchapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, the applicable NPDES permit, and the prohibitions set
out in §
51.111 within the time limitations specified by the EPA, IDEM, or the
Wastewater Utility Manager, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the
user’s expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the Wastewater Utility Manager and the City
Engineer for review, and shall be acceptable to the Wastewater Utility Manager
before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the
city under the provisions of this subchapter. All necessary permits shall be
obtained as necessary from the IDEM prior to discharge to the city. The city
may utilize the services of a contract, or otherwise retained, consultant to
review such plans. The permittee bares all costs associated with the review of
such plans.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.162 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Wastewater Utility Manager may require
users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that
certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate or
consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial
wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW
and determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Wastewater Utility Manager may require any person discharging into
the POTW to install and maintain, on his or her property and at his or her
expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of
flow. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter or
provide appropriate treatment to remove any such substance.
   (D)   Users that operate vehicular wash facilities shall provide, operate,
and maintain pretreatment facilities approved by the Wastewater Utility Manager
to control solids and preclude the discharge of toxics to the POTW.
   (E)   Users which operate food preparation facilities shall provide,
operate, and maintain pretreatment facilities approved by the Wastewater
Utility Manager to control the discharge of greases, fats, oils, and food
solids to the POTW. The design, installation, operation, and maintenance of
these facilities shall, at a minimum, comply with the provisions set forth in
§§
51.135 through
51.146.
   (F)   The Wastewater Utility Manager may require users to purchase, install,
and maintain, for the city’s monitoring purposes, such sampling, flow
monitoring, laboratory, or other such equipment deemed necessary to determine
compliance with categorical pretreatment standards, local limitations, NPDES
pretreatment permit limitations, or any other discharge limitation imposed by
this subchapter or at the express authorization of the Wastewater Utility
Manager.
   (G)   The Wastewater Utility Manager may require users to reimburse the city
for fees incurred for any analytical testing deemed necessary to determine
compliance with categorical pretreatment standards, local limitations, NPDES
pretreatment permit limitations, or any other discharge limitation imposed by
this subchapter or at the express authorization of the Wastewater Utility
Manager.
   (H)   Calibration of flow measurement devices, continuous monitoring
devices, process control devices, treatment control devices, or any other
device utilized for the monitoring or treatment of wastewater must be
calibrated on a schedule approved by the Wastewater Utility Manager.
   (I)   When required by the Wastewater Utility Manager, the user of any
property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate the observation,
sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be
accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed and located in
accordance with plans approved by the City Engineer. The manhole shall be
installed so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (J)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of characteristics of waters and
wastes shall be determined in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 and shall be
at an approved location and in accordance with §
51.119.
   (K)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure
appurtenance, or equipment which is part of the POTW or installed for the
purpose of determining compliance with categorical pretreatment standards,
local limitations, NPDES pretreatment permit limitations, or any other
discharge limitation or requirement imposed by this subchapter.
   (L)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the POTW which contain substances or possess characteristics
outlined in §
51.114, or, in the judgment of the Wastewater Utility Manager or the City
Engineer, may have a deleterious effect on the POTW or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Wastewater Utility Manager
shall:
      (1)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
      (2)   Require other methods of disposal;
      (3)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the POTW;
      (4)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
      (5)   Require facilities to prevent accidental discharge of any
unacceptable wastes; and/or
      (6)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the discharge not covered by sewer charges under the provisions of
Chapter 51 and all ordinances amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, and
any fines, penalties, or damages assessed against the city for discharge of
such wastes to the city.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-08; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.163 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   At least once every two years, the Wastewater Utility Manager shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug
control plan. The Wastewater Utility Manager may require any user to develop,
submit for approval, and implement such a plan. An accidental discharge/slug
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Wastewater Utility Manager of
any accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
51.227; and
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures must include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and measures and equipment for emergency
response. Acceptance or approval of any discharge/slug control plan by the
Wastewater Utility Manager does not in any way provide protection for any
industrial user from enforcement, legal actions, or other actions as allowed by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.164 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Wastewater haulers shall have a valid wastewater hauler permit issued
by the state before discharging wastes to the POTW. Wastewater haulers that
discharge to the city shall provide access to all documentation required to be
kept by the wastewater hauler permit issued by the state.
   (B)   Wastewater may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Wastewater Utility Manager, and at such times as are
established by the Wastewater Utility Manager. Such waste shall not violate §§
51.110 through
51.122 or any other requirements established by the city.
   (C)   All procedures for discharging, for cleanliners, and for general
sanitary operation on city property as prescribed by the city shall be strictly
adhered to by all wastewater haulers delivering wastewater to the designated
city dumping station.
   (D)   Wastewater from a domestic level user shall not be mixed with
wastewater from an industrial user. Vehicles hauling wastewater from an
industrial user shall not be used to haul wastewater from a domestic level user
for disposal at the POTW.
   (E)   Hauled wastewater shall be from domestic sources only and shall not,
partly or completely, contain industrial waste of any kind.
   (F)   The Wastewater Utility Manager has the right to refuse any waste from
any wastewater hauler for any reason.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.165 BYPASS.
   Upon delegation of a local pretreatment program from IDEM and the U.S. EPA
to the city, bypass shall follow the IDEM permit conditions as well as the
following:
   (A)   For the purposes of this section:
      (1)   BYPASS means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any
portion of a user’s treatment facility; and
      (2)   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY
DAMAGE does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Wastewater Utility Manager, at least ten days before
the date of the bypass.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Wastewater Utility Manager
of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards
within 24 hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes
aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the
bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and
times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The Wastewater Utility Manager may waive
the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received
within 24 hours.
   (D)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Wastewater Utility Manager may
take an enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) above.
      (2)   The Wastewater Utility Manager may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the Wastewater Utility Manager
determines that it will meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1)
above.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
POTW - WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION
§ 51.180 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   The purpose of this section is to provide guidance for permit requirements
§§
51.183 through
51.187 will be applicable and immediately in effect when the IDEM relinquishes
control of local pretreatment authority as described in 40 C.F.R. part 403. The
effective date as used in this section will mean the date in which the city
notifies the discharger of the change in local authority.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.181 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Wastewater Utility Manager, a user must submit
information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days
of the request. The Wastewater Utility Manager is authorized to prepare a form
for this purpose and may periodically require users to update this information.
When such information is requested by other regulating authorities, the city
shall be forwarded a copy of such submitted information.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.182 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the Wastewater
Utility Manager, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to §
51.183 may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
   (B)   The Wastewater Utility Manager may require other users to obtain
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
subchapter, state, or federal regulations.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
51.295 and
51.296. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the city does not relieve
a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment
standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state, and
local law.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.183 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
subchapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall,
within 180 days after said date, apply to the city for a wastewater discharge
permit in accordance with §
51.185, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
30 days of the effective date of this subchapter except in accordance with a
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Wastewater Utility Manager.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 51.184 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; NEW CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes
to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior
to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge.
   (B)   An application for this wastewater discharge permit, in accordance
with §
51.185 or federal and state law, must be filed at least 180 days prior to the
date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.185 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit
a wastewater discharge permit application. The Wastewater Utility Manager may
require all users to submit as part of an application the following
information:
      (1)   All information required by §
51.221(B)(8);
      (2)   A description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
      (3)   The number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
      (4)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production.
      (5)   The type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (7)   The time and duration of discharges;
      (8)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Wastewater
Utility Manager to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application; and
      (9)   Included with said application, a permit application fee of $25.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.186 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.187 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Wastewater Utility Manager will evaluate the data furnished by the user
and may require additional information. Within 60 days of receipt of a complete
wastewater discharge permit application, the Wastewater Utility Manager will
determine whether the discharge requires an applicable wastewater discharge
permit. The Wastewater Utility Manager may deny, in his or her sole discretion,
any application for a wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
POTW - WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS
§ 51.200 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   The purpose of this section is to establish permitting process guidelines
for the city. Sections
51.201 through
51.206 will be applicable and immediately in effect when the State Department
of Environmental Management relinquishes control of local pretreatment
authority as described in 40 C.F.R. part 403. The effective date, as used in
this section, will mean the date in which the city notifies the discharger of
the change in local authority.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.201 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   (A)   A wastewater discharge permit, as issued by the city, shall be issued
for a specified time period not to exceed five years from the effective date of
the permit.
   (B)   A wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than
five years, at the discretion of Wastewater Utility Manager.
   (C)   Each wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon
which it will expire.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.202 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Wastewater Utility Manager to prevent pass through
or interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the duration of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to IDEM in accordance with state rules or the Board
accordance with §
51.184, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample
type based on federal, state, and local law; and
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average rate of discharge, maximum rate of discharge,
time of discharge, requirements for flow regulation and equalization, or any
combination of these criteria;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions, including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or non-routine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Wastewater Utility
Manager to ensure compliance with this subchapter, and state and federal laws,
rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.203 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPEALS.
   The Wastewater Utility Manager shall provide notice by publication of the
issuance of a wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including the user, may
petition the Board to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit
within 15 days of the published notice of its issuance.
   (A)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   (B)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
   (C)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
   (D)   If the Board fails to act within 30 days, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not
to modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered final
administrative actions for purposes of judicial review. If a permit is issued
under IDEM’s authority, the state’s appeals process shall apply.
   (E)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final administrative
wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a complaint with the
County Circuit Court within 30 days. If a permit is issued under IDEM’s
authority, the state’s appeals process shall apply.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.204 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The Wastewater Utility Manager may modify a wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, which good cause shall include, but not be limited to, any one or
more of the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the city’s POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.205 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 30 days advance notice to the
Wastewater Utility Manager and the Wastewater Utility Manager approves the
wastewater discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Wastewater Utility
Manager must include a written certification by the new owner or operator
which:
      (1)   States that the new owner or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.206 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Wastewater Utility Manager may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, which good cause shall include, but not be limited to, any one or
more of the following reasons:
   (A)   Failure to notify the Wastewater Utility Manager of significant
changes to the nature and volume of the discharged wastewater prior to such
changes;
   (B)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Wastewater Utility
Manager of changed conditions pursuant to this section;
   (C)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application;
   (D)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
   (E)   Tampering with monitoring equipment installed by the Wastewater
Utility Manager, or his or her representatives, for the purposes of conducting
monitoring activities to determine compliance with the appropriate wastewater
discharge permit, federal, or state regulations, and any ordinances governing
the discharge of wastewater to the POTW;
   (F)   Refusing to allow the Wastewater Utility Manager, or his or her agent,
timely access to the facility premises and records;
   (G)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
   (H)   Failure to pay fines;
   (I)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
   (J)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
   (K)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application;
   (L)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership or a permitted facility;
   (M)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any terms of
the wastewater discharge permit or this subchapter;
   (N)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operation or transfer of business ownership; or
   (O)   All wastewater discharge permits issued to a particular user are void
upon the issuance of a new wastewater discharge permit to that user.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.207 DUTY TO REAPPLY.
   (A)   If a permittee wishes to continue an activity regulated by the
wastewater discharge permit after the expiration date of that permit, that
permittee must obtain and submit a new permit application according to §§
51.180 through
51.187.
   (B)   It is the permittee’s responsibility to obtain and submit the
application within 180 days before the expiration of the applicable permit.
This deadline may be extended if permission is requested in writing before such
deadline; the Wastewater Utility Manager grants permission to submit the
application after the deadline; and the application is received no later than
the expiration date of the existing permit.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.208 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality or sewer district contributes wastewater to
the POTW, the Wastewater Utility Manager shall enter into an intermunicipal or
interdistrict agreement with the contributing entity.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) above,
the Wastewater Utility Manager shall request the following information from the
contributing entity:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing entity;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing entity
that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Wastewater Utility Manager may deem
necessary.
   (C)   An agreement, as required by division (A) above, shall contain the
following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing entity to adopt a sewer use
ordinance which is at least as stringent as this subchapter and local limits
which are at least as stringent as those set out in §
51.113. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the city’s ordinance or local
limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing entity to submit a revised user
inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Wastewater Utility Manager;
and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing
municipality and Wastewater Utility Manager;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing entity to provide the Wastewater
Utility Manager with access to all information that the contributing entity
obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
entity’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing entity’s discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Wastewater Utility Manager access to the
facilities of users located within the contributing entity’s jurisdictional
boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed
necessary by the Wastewater Utility Manager; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal or interdistrict agreement.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
POTW - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.220 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to set forth minimum reporting
requirements for users of the POTW. Sections
51.221 through
51.233 will be applicable and immediately in effect when the State Department
of Environmental Management relinquishes control of local pretreatment
authority as described in 40 C.F.R. part 403. The effective date as used in
this section will mean the date in which the city notifies the discharger of
the change in local authority.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.221 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Wastewater Utility Manager a report which contains the
information listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard, shall submit to the Wastewater Utility Manager a report which
contains the information listed in division (B) below. A new source shall
report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable
categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Identify information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow management. Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature,
concentration, and mass, where required by the standard or by the Wastewater
Utility Manager, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The samples shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
§
51.231.
         (c)   Sampling and measurement of pollutants must be performed in
accordance with procedures set out in §
51.231, the applicable pretreatment permit, 327 IAC 5-2, 40 C.F.R. part 136,
and other applicable state and federal rules, laws, and regulations.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M), additional pretreatment, or
a combination of these remedies is required to meet the pretreatment standards
and requirements;
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the user shall follow the schedule
established by the Wastewater Utility Manager within which to provide such
additional pretreatment or O&M. The completion date in this schedule shall not
be later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet the
requirements set out in §
51.223 and applicable state and federal rules, laws, and regulations; and
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with this section and applicable state
and federal rules, laws, and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.222 NONCOMPLIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   If, for any reason, the permittee does not comply with or will be
unable to comply with any limitation specified in the applicable permit,
whether issued by the city or another regulating authority, the permittee shall
notify the Wastewater Utility Manager within 24 hours of becoming aware of such
condition. The permittee shall follow-up, in writing, within five days after
becoming aware of such condition with the following information:
      (1)   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance; and
      (2)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times; or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue, and steps being taken to reduce, eliminate, and prevent recurrence of
the noncomplying discharge.
   (B)   The above requirement is not intended to limit the city’s enforcement
response to noncompliance.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.223 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
51.221(B)(7):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, project status
reports, beginning operation, and attain compliance);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months; and
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Wastewater Utility
Manager no later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final
date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-08; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.224 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Wastewater
Utility Manager a report containing the information described in §
51.221(B)(4) through (B)(6) and all applicable state and federal rules, laws,
and regulations. For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term production
rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user’s actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.186 or, if the permit is issued by IDEM, in accordance with applicable state
and federal rules, laws, and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.225 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the Wastewater Utility Manager, but in no case less than twice per year (in
June and December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
51.186.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Wastewater Utility
Manager, using the procedures prescribed in §
51.231, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
   (D)   If the permit is issued by IDEM, a periodic compliance report shall be
completed and submitted in accordance with permit conditions.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.226 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All discharges authorized by the applicable pretreatment permit shall
be consistent with the terms and conditions of that permit.
   (B)   The discharge of any pollutant identified in the applicable permit
more frequently than or at a level in excess of that authorized shall
constitute a violation of the permit.
   (C)   Any anticipated facility expansions, production increases, or process
modifications which will result in new, different, or increased discharges of
pollutants must be reported by the submittal of a new permit application at
least 180 days prior to a planned expansion or modification or, if such changes
will not violate the effluent limitations specified in this permit, by notice
to the Wastewater Utility Manager of such changes.
   (D)   The Wastewater Utility Manager may require the user to submit such
additional information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed
condition.
   (E)   The Wastewater Utility Manager may issue a wastewater discharge permit
under §
51.187 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
51.204 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.227 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the Wastewater
Utility Manager of the incident. This notification shall include the location
of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective
actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Wastewater Utility Manager, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve
the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred
as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.228 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the Wastewater Utility Manager as the Wastewater Utility
Manager may require.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.229 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates an effluent limitation
violation, the user must notify the Wastewater Utility Manager within 24 hours
of becoming aware of the violation. The user must also immediately repeat the
sampling and analysis. The user shall continue to collect and analyze samples,
at a frequency determined by the Wastewater Utility Manager, until such time
that the facility has returned to compliance. The user shall submit the results
of the initial and any repeated analysis to the Wastewater Utility Manager
within 30 days after becoming aware of the initial violation or at a deadline
established by the Wastewater Utility Manager.
   (B)   When the user has continued violations that exceed two monitoring
periods, the user shall provide a compliance update to the Wastewater Utility
Manager every 15 days. Any samples collected by the Wastewater Utility Manager
does not limit the user’s responsibility to comply with this provision.
Additional monitoring as part of post violation monitoring shall not be
utilized to fulfill routine monitoring required in any discharge permit.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.230 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during
that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this division need be submitted only once for
each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions
must be submitted under §
51.226 and in accordance with all applicable state and federal rules, laws, and
regulations. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
51.221, 51.224, and 51.225.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 26133(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA, being the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the Wastewater Utility
Manager, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and the
State Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) of the discharge of such
substance within 90 days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this subchapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.231 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with current procedures approved by the U.S. EPA.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.232 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In
the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the Wastewater Utility
Manager may authorize the use of time proportional sampling consisting of a
minimum of four grab samples if the user demonstrates, to the satisfaction of
the Wastewater Utility Manager, that time proportional sampling will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab
samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Samples for COD, oil and grease (O&G), temperature, pH, cyanide,
phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab
sample collection techniques.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.233 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. The date of receipt by the Wastewater Utility Manager shall be
deemed the submittal date for reports that are not mailed.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
POTW - COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 51.245 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND ENTRY.
   The SIU shall allow the Wastewater Utility Manager, or an authorized
representative, upon the presentation of credentials, to:
   (A)   Enter upon the user’s premises, without any preconditions, except
those listed in §
51.247, where a regulated facility or activity is located or conducted, or
where records must be kept under the conditions of this subchapter or the
applicable pretreatment permit;
   (B)   Have access to and copy, at any time, any records that are required to
be kept by this subchapter or the applicable pretreatment permit;
   (C)   Inspect, at any time, any facilities, equipment (including monitoring
and control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required under
this subchapter or the applicable pretreatment permit;
   (D)   At any time, sample or monitor, for the purposes of determining
compliance with this subchapter or the applicable pretreatment permit, any
substances or parameters at any locations; and
   (E)   At any time, inspect any production, manufacturing, fabricating, or
storage area where pollutants, regulated under this subchapter or the
applicable pretreatment permit, could originate, be stored, or be discharged to
the sewer system.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.246 SEARCH WARRANT.
   If the Wastewater Utility Manager or an authorized representative has been
refused access to a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and
is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation
of this subchapter, or that there is a need to inspect or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program of the city designed to verify
compliance with this subchapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then
the Wastewater Utility Manager may seek issuance of an administrative search
warrant from the County Circuit Court and/or the County Superior Court No. 1 in
the city.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.247 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits, and monitoring
programs, and from the Wastewater Utility Manager’s inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Wastewater Utility Manager and the City Attorney, that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such
request must be asserted at the time of submission of the information or data.
When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such
information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which might
disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon request
to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment
program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other EFFLUENT DATA, as
defined by 40 CF.R. 2.302, will not be recognized as confidential information
and will be available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
POTW - ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES; EFFECTIVE DELEGATION OF A LOCAL
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
§ 51.260 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Wastewater Utility Manager finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Utility Manager may serve upon that user at the
address contained within the permit, by hand delivery or by First Class, U.S.
Mail, a written notice of violation. Within 30 days of the receipt of this
notice, or such shorter time as may be contained within the notice of
violation, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted by the user to the Wastewater Utility Manager. Submission of this
plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring
before or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section
shall limit the authority of the Wastewater Utility Manager to take any action,
including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first
issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.261 COMPLIANCE AGREEMENTS.
   The Wastewater Utility Manager may enter into compliance agreements,
assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will
include specific actions to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance
within a time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the
same force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
51.263 and
51.264 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 2008-35, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.262 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Wastewater Utility Manager may order a user which has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Wastewater Utility Manager and show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on
the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least 15 days prior to the hearing. Such notice
may be served on any authorized representative of the user. A show cause
hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.263 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Wastewater Utility Manager finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Utility Manager may issue an order to the user
responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance
within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the
time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.264 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Wastewater Utility Manager finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Wastewater Utility Manager may issue an order to the user directing it to cease
and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
necessary to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.265 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Wastewater Utility Manager finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Utility Manager may fine such user in accordance
with I.C. 8-1.5-3-8 to the amount not to exceed $2,500 for the first offense
and the amount not to exceed $7,500 for each subsequent offense. Such fines
shall be assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In the case of monthly or
other long term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day
during the period of violation. The user shall also be responsible for all
costs, damages, expenses, attorney’s fees, and fines levied by regulatory
agencies due to and attributed to the user’s noncompliance.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, accrued interest, attorney’s fees, fines, and
penalties shall, after 60 calendar days, be assessed an additional penalty of
10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of
1.8% per month. A lien against the user’s property will be sought for unpaid
charges, fines, and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Wastewater Utility Manager to reconsider the fine along with full payment
of the fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a
request has merit, the Wastewater Utility Manager may convene a hearing on the
matter. In the event the user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together
with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The
Wastewater Utility Manager may add the costs of preparing administrative
enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.266 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Wastewater Utility Manager may immediately suspend a user’s
discharge, after informal notice, delivered personally, telephonically, or
electronically to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of the public,
the environment, or which threatens to interfere with the operation of the
POTW. The Wastewater Utility Manager may also immediately suspend a user’s
discharge after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its discharge. In the event of a user’s failure
to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Wastewater
Utility Manager may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection or other means necessary to prevent or
minimize an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present
or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
the public, the environment, or which threatens to interfere with the operation
of the POTW. The pretreatment facility bears all costs, including, but not
limited to, damages to the sewer connection, damage to any pretreatment
facilities, or transport and disposal costs associated with a severance or
other means to cease the discharge to the POTW. The Wastewater Utility Manager
may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated,
to the satisfaction of the Wastewater Utility Manager, that the period of
endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
51.267 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to
present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of the public, the environment, or which threatens to interfere with
the operation of the POTW shall submit a detailed written statement, describing
the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any
future occurrence, to the Wastewater Utility Manager prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §§
51.262 or
51.267.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.267 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
51.111, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the sewer use requirements in §§
51.110 through
51.122,
51.135 through
51.146, or
51.160 through
51.165.
   (B)   (1)   Such user will be notified personally, telephonically, or
electronically of the proposed termination of its discharge and be offered an
opportunity to show cause under §
51.262 why the proposed action should not be taken.
      (2)   Exercise of this option by the Wastewater Utility Manager shall not
be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
POTW - JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES; EFFECTIVE UPON DELEGATION OF A LOCAL
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
§ 51.280 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Wastewater Utility Manager finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the BOW may petition the County Circuit Court and/or the County
Superior Court No. 1 through the City Attorney for the issuance of a
preliminary and/or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which enjoins or
compels the specific performance by the user of the provisions of the
wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this
subchapter on activities of the user. The Wastewater Utility Manager may also
seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and equitable relief,
including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A
petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.281 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this subchapter are not exclusive. The
Wastewater Utility Manager may take any, all, or any combination of these
actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of code violations will
generally be in accordance with the city’s enforcement response plan. However,
the Wastewater Utility Manager may take other action against any user when the
circumstances, in his or her sole discretion, warrant. Further, the Wastewater
Utility Manager is authorized to take more than one enforcement action against
any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
POTW - AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 51.295 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) below are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workpersonlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and
maintenance procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the Wastewater
Utility Manager within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users shall have the opportunity for an administrative determination
by the BOW on any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.296 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action
brought against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
51.111(A) or the specific prohibitions in §§
51.111(B)(3) through
51.122 if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its
discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would
cause pass through or interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the city was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit (Number IN0020109),
and in the case of interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use
or disposal requirements.
   (B)   If a user operates under the conditions of an IDEM issued permit, the
user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against
it for noncompliance with said permit in accordance with applicable state and
federal laws, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
POTW - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 51.310 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The Common Council may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of
setting up and operating the city’s pretreatment program which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications and developing technical permit requirements;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals; and
   (E)   Other fees as the Common Council may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this subchapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.311 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Upon delegation of a local pretreatment program from IDEM or the U.S.
EPA to the city, the Wastewater Utility Manager may publish annually, in the
largest daily newspaper published in the municipality where the POTW is
located, a list of the users which, during the previous 12 months, were in
significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   (B)   The term significant noncompliance shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined herein
as those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six-
month period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit for the same
pollutant parameter by any amount;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4
for BODs, TSS, FOG, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other discharge violation that the Wastewater Utility Manager
believes has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through, including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to
present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of the public, the environment, or which threatens to interfere with
the operation of or has resulted in the Wastewater Utility Manager’s exercise
of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days or the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s) which the Wastewater Utility Manager
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.312 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   For provisions of the POTW subchapters, contingent upon delegation of a
local pretreatment program from IDEM and the U.S. EPA to the city, said
provisions shall become effective upon the date of delegation as contained
within the city’s NPDES permit renewal.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 51.313 STATE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ISSUED INDUSTRIAL WASTE
PERMITS (IWPS).
   The POTW subchapters do not exempt or supersede any conditions, laws, rules,
or regulations affected by or related to an individual industrial waste permit
(IWP), as issued by the State Department of Environmental Management as long as
said permit is in effect or has been administratively extended under applicable
state rules.
(Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
51.015 through
51.021, except §
51.018(R), shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the correction. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
   (C)   Any person who continues any violation beyond the time limit provided
for in (B) above shall be guilty of a punishable violation, and, on conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100 for each violation.
Each day in which any such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense with the maximum fine for said offense not to exceed $2,500.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.001 through
51.002,
51.015 through
51.022,
51.035 through
51.040, and
51.055 through
51.059 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city or downstream users by reason of such violation.
   (E)   Civil penalties:
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
the POTW subchapters, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the city
for a maximum civil penalty of $2,500 per day, plus costs, expenses, and fees,
including the reasonable attorney’s fees of the city. In the case of a monthly
or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day
during the period of the violation.
      (2)   The Wastewater Utility Manager may recover reasonable attorney’s
fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages
incurred by the city.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 1996-19, passed 9-26-1996; Ord. 2008-38, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Water meters
   
52.003   Right of inspection
   
52.004   Regulation of water distribution system
   
52.005   Regulation of fire hydrants
   
52.006   Removal from jurisdiction of State Utility Regulatory Commission
   
52.007   Payment in lieu of taxes
   
52.008   City water service area established; regulating the furnishing of
water therein
Connections
   
52.020   Availability or capacity charge
   
52.021   Connection fees
   
52.022   Deposit
   
52.023   Water main extensions to areas not previously served
   
52.024   Street improvements; notice to nonusers
   
52.025   Each lot to be served by separate service lines
   
52.026   Cross connection
   
52.027   Installation of water meter pits
   
52.028   Charges for inspection fees
   
52.029   Well head protection
   
52.030   Installation of private wells prohibited; exceptions
   
52.031   Damage to underground water facilities
   
52.032   Depreciation Fund
Rates
   
52.045   Water rates
   
52.046   Sale of untreated water
   
52.047   Charges when water meter fails
   
52.048   Collection on deferred payment charge
   
52.049   Discontinuance of service
   
52.050   Shut-off for nonpayment
   
52.051   Charges to turn back on
Water Management Strategy
   
52.065   Application
   
52.066   Declaration of need
   
52.067   Conservative measures
   
52.068   Level 1 - voluntary conservation
   
52.069   Level 2 - restricted water use
   
52.070   Level 3 - prohibited water use
   
52.071   Level 4 - water rationing
   
52.072   Exceptions
   
52.073   Notice of water conservation level to customers
   
52.074   Enforcement
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AQUIFER. The underground geological formation receiving, storing, and
transmitting water in amounts sufficient for the delivery of water to the water
system.
   BOARD OF WORKS. The City Board of Public Works and Safety.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the city
water system, and the other containing water from a private water source or
unknown water source, the safety of which cannot be determined due to the
possible intrusion of steam, gases, chemicals, or other dangerous substances
from the private water source into the city water system.
   CUSTOMER. Any person whose residence and/or business is connected to the
water utility, whether legally or illegally. Failure of a person to pay for the
water they receive from the water utility shall not otherwise prevent them from
being classified as a customer.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. All distribution mains, valves, hydrants, service
lines, meters, meter installation, and other appurtenances necessary to
transport treated water from the point it exits a treatment facility to the
point where it is delivered to a customer.
   DISTRIBUTION SUPERVISOR. The Distribution Supervisor of the Water Utility.
   FINISHED WATER. Water treated in a manner that it is suitable for human
consumption.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The City Municipal Fire Department.
   HEALTH CARE PROVIDER. Any publicly recognized and licensed medical or other
licensed health care establishment, including, but not limited to, hospitals,
emergency medical centers, first-aid stations, doctor’s and dentist’s offices,
and nursing homes.
   LAKE/RESERVOIR. Any natural or human-made basin or hollow on the earth’s
surface in which water collects or is stored that cannot have a current or
single-direction of flow.
   LOCAL PLANNING TEAM (LPT) FOR WELLHEAD PROTECTION. The Local Planning Team
(LPT) formed for the purpose of fulfilling the requirements of the wellhead
protection rule.
   MANDATORY CONSERVATION. Compliance with the city’s imposition of
requirements that are designed to reduce certain kinds and types of water use.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the city, or, in the Mayor’s absence, the acting Mayor.
   PERSON. A person is an individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company, or any other organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE FIRE HYDRANT. Those fire hydrants attached to private water mains
located on private property, beginning at the city control valve at the public
water main as recorded on the plat with the city or the county.
   PRIVATE WATER MAIN. Those water mains located on private property, beginning
at a private water source.
   PUBLIC FIRE HYDRANT. Those fire hydrants attached to public water mains.
   PUBLIC WATER MAIN. Those water mains located on private property, beginning
at the city control valve at the public water main as recorded on the plat with
the city and or the county.
   SERVICE LINE. The service line delivering water from a water main to any
residential or non-residential property or properties in accordance with this
subchapter.
   TIME OF TRAVEL THRESHOLD (TOT THRESHOLD). A period of one year, which has
been determined by the water utility to be the amount of time based upon the
hydrogeologic conditions and needs of the community to protect the water system
from contamination.
   TREATED WATER. Water treated in a manner that is suitable for human
consumption or for another designated use.
   VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION. Compliance with the city’s request to reduce water
use.
   WATER CONTRACTORS. Private businesses or companies that are hired to install
irrigation systems, perform backflow prevention device testing, install water
mains, services, or otherwise work with the potable water system within the
city’s water service area.
   WATER MANAGEMENT STRATEGY. A plan adopted by the Board, together with its
Water Utility Manager and City Engineer, to reduce the demand upon both
untreated water supply and treated water supply.
   WATER RATIONING. Compliance with the city’s imposition of restrictions that
will reduce demand for water to a maximum allowable quantity within a finite
time interval (e.g., gallons per person per day).
   WATER SERVICE AREA. The city’s water service area is hereby defined and
established as those areas within the corporate boundaries of the city, as well
as certain areas within four miles outside the city’s boundaries, as shown on
the map attached to Ordinance 2016-4 as Exhibit C.
   WATER SYSTEM. The city’s water system for the provision to the public of
water for human consumption through pipes and other constructed conveyances, as
applicable.
   WATER UTILITY. The city’s municipal water utility.
   WATER UTILITY MANAGER. The Water Utility Manager of the city.
   WELLHEAD. The component at the surface of any well within the city’s water
territory that provides water for human consumption.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and subsurface area, delineated by a
200-foot radius, which contributes water to a wellhead and through which
contaminants are likely to move through and reach the wellhead within the time
of travel threshold.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.002 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Location of installation. All residential water meters shall be
installed outdoors in water meter pits in the location and manner as selected
by the Water Utility Manager. Any prospective customer’s refusal to install a
water meter in the Water Utility Manager’s proposed location, shall, in the
sole and absolute discretion of the Board of Works, be sufficient reason to
refuse water service until the prospective customer agrees to such location.
   (B)   Maintenance. The water utility shall maintain the area located between
the public water main serving each property and four feet from the meter pit
for each property. The water meter, water meter pit, and all components of the
water distribution system are and shall remain property of the water utility.
   (C)   Non-residential structures. Meters serving newly constructed non-
residential structures must be installed in an indoor location approved by the
Water Utility Manager or Distribution Supervisor. Meters serving non-
residential structures that are located in an exterior location must be
relocated to an interior location approved by the Water Utility Manager or
Distribution Supervisor upon the renovation of such non-residential structures.
   (D)   Installation specifications and requirements. It shall be the sole
responsibility of the individual installing any water meter pit in the city to
comply with the specifications and requirement maintained by the city’s water
utility. Specifications for the installation and maintenance of any new water
meter pits shall be set forth in standards maintained by the city’s water
utility with such plans and specifications including the following minimum
standards.
      (1)   The lids of new water meter pits shall be installed on an even
grade with the ground around the location of such water meter pit.
      (2)   New water meter pits shall be located two feet from any new
sidewalk or property line.
      (3)   No component of the water distribution system shall be located
within or upon any portion of a driveway.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.003 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The Water Utility, by and through Water Utility representatives, shall have
the right, but not the obligation to, inspect at any reasonable time all
service piping and water appurtenances inside a customer’s premises.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.004 REGULATION OF WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   (A)    Control of service lines. Water shall be turned off or on by an
employee of the water utility and not by the customer. All service lines must
have stop controls and waste controls located between the meter and the subject
property for emergency service stoppages and repairs.
   (B)   Tampering with water distribution system. Tampering with the water
distribution system includes adjusting or attempting to adjust, interfering
with or attempting to interfere with, bypassing or attempting to bypass the
normal operation of any component of the water distribution system, including,
but not limited to, any water meter, hydrant, or valve system, without the
written authorization of the Water Utility Manager, or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 REGULATION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No tampering or interference. Except for the purpose of extinguishing
a fire by a first responder or with the express written authorization of the
Water Utility Manager, or his or her designee, no person shall cause water to
be removed from or in any way interfere with a public fire hydrant, as provided
in division (D) below.
   (B)    Fire training. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, the city’s fire territory and mutual aid departments may, after verbal
notice is provided to the Water Utility Manager, or his or her designee, use
public fire hydrants for training or such other practices that benefit public
safety.
   (C)   Fire Department usage. The City Fire Department Chief, or his or her
designee, shall track the use of public hydrants by the City Fire Department,
and their mutual aid departments, and submit a report on the use of water by
the City Fire Department to the water utility on a monthly basis.
   (D)   Authorized use. If the Water Utility Manager deems there is a need to
permit a person to use a public fire hydrant for purposes other than those
stated in this section, such person will be issued a permit authorizing said
use. A permit will include the identification of the person, the specific
hydrant(s) to be used by said person, and length of time the use of the hydrant
by said person is authorized. The authorized shall not permit any other use of
the hydrant(s) by any other person at any time. Violation of this division (D)
will be fined as defined in §
52.999 (C).
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.006 REMOVAL FROM JURISDICTION OF STATE UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The water utility shall be removed from the jurisdiction of the State
Utility Regulatory Commission for approval of rates and charges and for the
issuance of stocks, bonds, notes, or other evidence of indebtedness.
(Ord. 2010-9, passed 6-23-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.007 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   (A)   The city hereby elects to provide for a schedule of rates and charges
sufficient to produce a sum equal to the amount the city would have received if
the water utility owned property were privately owned and hereby directs the
comptroller of the water utility to set aside a sum equal to 3% of the gross
revenues of the water utility and to thereafter pay monthly to the Clerk-
Treasurer for deposit into the general fund one-twelfth of the total sum deemed
sufficient to compensate the city for all sums which would ordinarily be
received were the property of the water utility privately owned.
   (B)   The Common Council hereby determines that the schedule of rates and
charges set forth herein will provide the necessary revenue to pay the amounts
set forth above.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.008 CITY WATER SERVICE AREA ESTABLISHED; REGULATING THE FURNISHING OF
WATER THEREIN.
   (A)   Authority. The city owns and operates the water utility. I.C. 36-9-2-
14 permits a municipality to regulate the furnishing of water to the public.
I.C. 36-9-2-18 permits a municipality to exercise powers granted by I.C. 36-9-
2-14 in areas within four miles outside its corporate boundaries. I.C. 8-1.5-
6 et seq. permits the city to adopt a regulatory ordinance which is then
submitted to the State Utility Regulatory Commission for its review and
approval. The regulatory ordinance allows the municipality to regulate the
furnishing of water utility service in areas within four miles outside the
city’s corporate boundaries.
   (B)   Agreement.
      (1)   Pursuant to an agreement between Hancock County Rural Telephone
Corporation d/b/a NineStar Connect and the city, the parties agreed to an
exclusive water service area for the city within four miles of the city’s
corporate limits.
      (2)   The county’s regional water and sewer district adopted a consent to
transfer certified territorial authority, a copy of which is attached to
Ordinance 2016-4 as Exhibit A, in which it approved and ratified the agreement.
      (3)   The agreement, a copy of which is attached to Ordinance 2016-4 as
Exhibit B, is hereby approved. In approving the agreement, the city understands
and affirms that the agreement and Ordinance 2016-4 shall not, in any way,
prevent the city from:
         (a)   Later seeking and obtaining from the county’s regional water and
sewer district the right to serve any area within the district’s jurisdiction;
         (b)   Retaining any and all rights to acquire any or all of NineStar’s
assets used in providing water services in the additional service area; or
         (c)   Exercising any power it has under I.C. 8-1.5-1-1 et seq. or 36-
9-23-1 et seq.
   (C)   Water service area.
      (1)   Pursuant to Ordinance 2016-4 and its approval by the State Utility
Regulatory Commission, the city holds an exclusive license to furnish potable
water service within the water service area, and the water utility shall be the
exclusive provider of potable water to the public within the water service
area.
      (2)   Pursuant to Ordinance 2016-4 and its approval by the State Utility
Regulatory Commission, no other utilities are permitted to provide potable
water service within the city, or within the water service area. This
subchapter does not mandate the city to extend service to areas where
technically or financially not feasible. Rather, it expressly prohibits other
utilities from furnishing water service to customers within the city or within
the water service area.
      (3)   No customer shall permit a connection to potable water service
within the water service area by any other water service provider.
      (4)   The city’s existing rules and regulations for water service, as
amended from time to time, shall apply to and within the water service area.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person, firm, partnership, sole proprietor, or
corporation who violates this subchapter shall be subject to a civil penalty of
$2,000 per violation. Each day of violation shall be deemed a separate
violation.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
CONNECTIONS
§ 52.020 AVAILABILITY OR CAPACITY CHARGE.
   No connection to any city-owned water main shall be allowed until a permit
is obtained and payment of the availability or fee has been made. This charge
is intended to provide funds for making extensions and replacements to the
water mains, and to ensure that there is adequate capacity already in place to
serve the new customer. The charge shall be, from time to time, updated and
fixed by the city, but effective July 1, 2024 shall be $2,000 per acre. Acreage
availability fee may, in the city’s sole and absolute discretion, be excluded
for areas platted for use as cemeteries, golf courses, or parks. All sums
obtained by way of payment of the availability fee as described above shall be
deposited into the Water Availability Fund #6107.
(Ord. 2002-17, passed 5-9-2002; Ord. 2005-7, passed 4-28-2005; Ord. 2008-25,
passed 9-24-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2023-25, passed 9-13-
2023; Ord. 2024-06, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 52.021 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Application for new connections. All new connections for water service
from the water distribution system shall be made under the direct authority and
supervision of the Water Utility Manager. The connection fee charge is intended
to provide funds for the production capacity of treatment plants, general
capacity upgrades, maintenance, and regulatory compliance. All applications for
new water service shall be made to the city's utility customer service office
upon such forms as are approved by the Water Utility Manager from time to time.
All funds collected as connection fee funds shall be deposited into the Water
Connection Fee Fund #6109.
   (B)   Scope. A property to be served by the city’s water territory, must be
contiguous to a public street, alley, or easement and have a public water main
installed thereon.
   (C)   Irrigation service line. Any customer requesting and being granted
approval to install an irrigation service line, shall be charged the minimum
connection fee for a one inch meter as approved by the Board. Any irrigation
system shall be installed in accordance with the then current specifications
and standards of the city’s water utility.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2023-25, passed 9-13-2023; Ord. 2024-
06, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 52.022 DEPOSIT.
   The water utility shall require from any customer or prospective customer,
to ensure the payment of water bills, a cash deposit which shall be paid to the
city’s utility customer support representative, as follows:
   (A)   If billings are made on a monthly basis, the cash deposit required
shall be equivalent to the estimated amount of water consumption to be used
over a two-month period. In no case shall the deposit be less than $54.
   (B)   Such cash deposit shall be held by the water utility to be applied in
whole, or in part, against any delinquent charges owed by the customer.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 1960-9, passed 6-1-1960; Ord. 2010-9, passed 6-23-
2010; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.023 WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS TO AREAS NOT PREVIOUSLY SERVED.
   (A)   Extensions - discretion. The water utility may, in its sole and
absolute discretion, furnish water to properties located outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city upon such terms and conditions as are
acceptable to the water utility. Water main extensions to areas not previously
served shall be made in conformity with the then current city’s water utility
standards.
   (B)    Condition to extension. Furnishing water to any property located
outside of the corporate boundaries, the owners of such property shall sign a
waiver and an agreement binding upon themselves, their heirs, assignees, and
grantees, agreeing therein to incorporate their property into the corporate
boundaries of the city and waiving their rights to object to annexation when
and if the city decides by ordinance that the land so affected by the terms of
the ordinance should be annexed to the city.
   (C)   Contracts for extension. If the water utility, with the approval of
the Board, elects to furnish water to properties located outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city, then in addition to the waiver and agreement
described in division (B) above, the Board may enter into contracts with
individuals or corporations for the extension of service lines and services of
the city’s water utility. In addition to terms and conditions set forth under
divisions (A) and (B) above, any contract may further provide as follows.
      (1)   All extensions of public water mains shall be paid for at the
expense of the owners of the benefitted properties, except as authorized by the
City Board.
      (2)   The extension of public water mains shall create no obligations of
the city other than those obligations pertaining to furnishing water as set
forth under this subchapter and any contract.
      (3)   Any new customer upon whose property is installed a water well will
be required to abandon such well within one year from the date on which such
customer’s domestic service is provided from a public water main in accordance
with state law.
      (4)   The City Utility Manager shall install or cause to be installed
service lines according to the plans and specifications of the city’s Water
Utility.
      (5)   The person installing such extension, tap on, or otherwise
performing the work and labor necessary for the installation of the service
line extension or tap shall carry worker’s compensation insurance and public
liability and property damage insurance in a sufficient amount to save the city
and the water utility harmless from any and all liability, such amounts to be
set out in each individual contract.
      (6)   Any easements necessary for the construction of said service lines
shall be made in the name of the city and for the benefit of the city and that
after the construction of the service lines the service lines shall become the
property of the city.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.024 STREET IMPROVEMENTS; NOTICE TO NONUSERS.
   Prior to any new paving improvements in streets or alleys as provided by the
city, all vacant lot owners or nonusers of city water service shall be given
written notice in advance of the date the paving improvement is to be made, and
shall have 30 days in which to pay the water tap charge and have service laid
from the street or alley water main to the property line in advance of pavement
surfacing construction. If such action of the property owner is not taken after
said notice is given, the future expense of cutting and replacing street or
alley paving for future water services shall be paid for by the property owner
at the time water service is installed.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 1954-5, passed 2-23-1954)
§ 52.025 EACH LOT TO BE SERVED BY SEPARATE SERVICE LINES.
   In no case shall service lines be allowed to run from one lot to another
lot; instead, each lot shall be served by a separate service line that runs
directly from the public water main serving such lot; provided, however,
nothing herein shall prevent a single service line from furnishing water to any
lot containing multiple structures, or any lot containing a single structure
with multiple residences if legally permitted by the city. The service line for
said structures will be sized to accommodate the maximum demand of the proposed
structure.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.026 CROSS CONNECTION.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   A CROSS CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the city water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
      (2)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply. Words used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural
include the singular, and words in the singular include the plural. The word
SHALL is always meant to be mandatory and not merely directory.
   (B)   Cross connection prohibited.
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection, and use of such supply, shall have been approved by the city’s
water utility and by the State Department of Environmental Management in
accordance with 327 IAC 8-10.
      (2)   The city’s standards and specifications shall be the guidance of
all back flow prevention policies as required by federal, state, and city
authorities.
   (C)   Inspection.
      (1)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the city’s
water utility shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine the property served by a connection to the public water system of the
city for cross connections.
      (2)   On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross connection.
   (D)   Discontinuation of service.
      (1)   The city’s water utility is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this subchapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
         (a)   Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice
is served on the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where
a violation is found or suspected to exist.
         (b)   Water service to such property shall not be restored until the
cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of
this section.
      (2)   If it is deemed by the city’s water utility that a cross connection
or an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer of the city and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
with the Board of Public Works and Safety at the next scheduled meeting of such
emergency discontinuance.
   (E)   Back flow prevention device required.
      (1)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users shall install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow
preventer in the main water line serving each building on the premises. Any and
all backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location above
finished grade, not in a vault, and not subject to flooding or freezing.
      (2)   This subchapter does not supersede the state’s Plumbing Code, or
the IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-10, but is supplementary to it.
      (3)   That the city’s “Public Improvement and Design Specifications and
Standards”, on file in the Engineering and Planning Office, shall be the
guidance of all backflow prevention policies as required by federal, state, and
city authorities.
      (4)   If, in the judgment of the Water Utility Manager, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the City Water Utility Manager will give notice to the water consumer
to install such an approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at
his or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner approved by the City Water Utility Manager and shall have inspections
and tests made of such approved devices as required by the Water Utility
Manager and in accordance with the IDEM Rule, 327 IAC 8-10.
(Ord. 2018-16, passed 10-10-2018; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.027 INSTALLATION OF WATER METER PITS.
   (A)   The installation of water meter pits shall be the responsibility of
the owner of the subject lot or builder.
   (B)   Inspections by the water utility will be required prior to
installation in order to verify compliance with this subchapter and the design
specifications available from the administrative offices of the water utility.
   (C)   Water meter pits shall be installed for each subject property in a
location approved by the Water Utility Manager.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.028 CHARGES FOR INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Inspection fees. Any entity, or individual, requesting an inspection
and/or testing of a public water main, any other portion of the distribution
system, outside the regular business hours of the water utility, will be at the
discretion of the Water Utility Manager. The party requesting said inspection
shall be charged an applicable inspection fee. Inspection fees shall be
calculated taking into account the following considerations.
      (1)   A sum equal to the inspector’s total hourly rate of pay, both
regular and/or overtime if applicable, plus benefits, for all hours devoted to
any aspect of the inspection process which fees shall be invoiced to the
person, or entity, requesting the inspection and/or testing services, upon the
completion thereof.
      (2)   The applicant shall pay an inspector’s vehicle charge in addition
thereto at the rate of $40 per day for all or part of any day the inspector
devotes to the inspection and/or testing of the subject infrastructure, which
shall be invoiced to the person or entity requesting the inspection and/or
testing services, upon completion thereof.
      (3)   Inspection and/or testing services requested to be conducted on a
weekend or holiday shall be subject to the inspector’s availability and all
such time applicable to the requested services by the inspectors shall be paid
at the inspector’s overtime hourly rate, plus benefits, which shall be invoiced
to the person, or entity, requesting the inspection and/or testing services
upon the completion thereof. An exception to the charges set forth above, shall
be for services described in division (A)(4) below.
      (4)   Any inspection and/or testing of an individual line requested to be
done and which are performed on a weekend other than those inspections and/or
testing set forth in division (A)(3) above shall be charged and invoiced at the
rate of $150 for each trip to the inspection/testing site.
   (B)   Installation inspection. When deemed necessary by the Water Utility
Manager, a designee of the water utility shall be on-site as an installation
inspector to assure the water contractor’s adherence to the water utility
specifications and installation requirements. The installation inspector shall
remain on-site until such time as the installation inspector is satisfied that
the water contractor is aware of, able, and committed to following the
guidelines set forth in the city approved construction documents. Fees
associated with services under this subchapter shall be invoiced in accordance
with the provisions of §
52.029(A) and must be paid in full prior to inspection/testing of the portion
of the distribution system providing water to the subject property.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.029 WELL HEAD PROTECTION.
   (A)   Powers. Upon notice, either oral or written, that the city’s water
utility has determined that circumstances exist which may, or do, give rise to
concern for the safety of the aquifer, the city, by and through the City
Building Commissioner, shall be empowered to enforce the regulations set forth
under this subchapter.
   (B)   Enforcement. For each day of non-compliance with this subchapter which
presents a hazard to the aquifer, an individual, organization, and/or business
may be fined $1,000 a day. Such fines may remain in effect until such revisions
are completed to be in compliance with this subchapter. Violations of this
subchapter shall be cited by the City Building Commissioner.
   (C)   Hearing and enforcement. The Board is authorized to hear all citations
issued pursuant to this subchapter and impose the fine as prescribed above.
   (D)   Regulation of lakes, reservoirs, ponds, swales, and other water
retention areas.
      (1)   All lakes, reservoirs, ponds, swales, and other water retention
areas of any kind located within the TOT threshold must be properly sealed in
accordance with the specifications of this subchapter.
      (2)   No lakes, reservoirs, ponds, swales, or other water retention areas
of any kind shall be allowed within the wellhead protection area.
      (3)   All lakes, reservoirs, ponds, or other water retention areas of any
kind shall be sealed according to the specifications as adopted by the water
utility as the same may be updated and amended from time to time.
   (E)   New development; inspection requirements.
      (1)   Prior to any encroachment into the well head protection area, the
owner of the property into which such encroachment is to take place shall
obtain an inspection of the proposed sealing system at such property owner’s
sole cost and expense by a field inspector trained in soils testing by one of
the following:
         (a)   The County Health Department; or
         (b)   A qualified geologic technology firm contracted by the water
utility at the sole expense of the owner.
      (2)   Sampling shall be a minimum of one sample per acre or fraction
thereof and a minimum of two samples per body of water. Laboratory testing of
permeability will be required only if the inspector has a question of
compliance. The inspector may recommend the city utilities require the property
owner to have a qualified laboratory run a permeability test at the property
owner’s sole cost and expense.
      (3)   After inspecting any sealing system, the inspector shall either
approve or reject the sealing system according to the specifications of the
water utility.
      (4)   Notification of any inspection shall be provided to the water
utility 48 hours in advance of such inspection. Upon completion of any
inspection contemplated hereunder, a signed copy of the inspection report shall
be provided to the water utility within 48 hours of completion of such
inspection.
      (5)   In the event of any dispute resulting from an inspection conducted
in accordance with this subchapter, such dispute shall be resolved, at the
property owner’s sole cost and expense, by an inspection conducted by a
licensed soils engineer acceptable to all parties.
   (F)   Installation of roadway. Any roadway located contiguous to or within
the wellhead protection area and/or owned by the city for production of
drinking water shall be constructed according to the most recently approved
water utility specifications.
   (G)   City-owned property. There shall be no activity or encroachment within
the wellhead protection area upon any property owned by the city without the
approval of the water utility.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.030 INSTALLATION OF PRIVATE WELLS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Property located within the corporate limits of the city, which meet
the scope of service stated in §
52.023(B), shall not be permitted or cause to be installed, constructed,
maintained, repaired, replaced a private water well within the corporate limits
of the city.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to the repair or replacement of
pumping equipment in existing wells.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subsection and §
52.025 to connect a private water well to a system that is connected to the
public water supply.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.031 DAMAGE TO UNDERGROUND WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   No private, public, or government agency shall install or cause to
have installed any new facility within two feet of the edge of any water main,
service line, or valve.
   (B)   Any water mains, service lines, valves, meter pits, or other water
structures that are damaged by any private, public, or government agency shall
be charged a fine of $2,500 plus cost of labor, material, and equipment to
repair water mains, service lines, valves, meter pits, or other water
structures per occurrence.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.032 DEPRECIATION FUND.
   There is hereby created a Greenfield Water Depreciation Fund #6103 as
required by I.C. 8-1-2-19 into which shall be deposited all or any portion of
the net revenues of the utility after any bond payment as authorized by the
Common Council through its budgeting process. Said funds may be used for the
improvement, extension, replacement, or additions to the water utility
infrastructure and/or its capacity.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 3-13-2024)
RATES
§ 52.045 WATER RATES.
   There shall be and there are established for the use of the service rendered
by the water utility the following rates and charges, based on the amount of
water supplied during each monthly billing period:
   (A)   Metered rates per month.
 
                     Eff. 7/1/2024  Eff. 7/1/2025  Eff. 7/1/2026
                     Inside Outside Inside Outside Inside Outside
First 20,000 gallons $4.33  $4.96   $4.78  $5.99   $5.23  $7.53
Next 140,000 gallons $3.39  $3.46   $3.84  $3.97   $4.29  $7.53
Next 160,000 gallons $2.84  $2.91   $3.29  $3.42   $3.74  $3.94
 
   (B)   Base charge per month. In addition to the monthly metered rates, each
customer shall pay a monthly base charge in accordance with the following size
of water meter installed:
 Eff. 7/1/2024  Eff. 7/1/2025  Eff. 7/1/2026
 Inside Outside Inside Outside Inside Outside
                 Eff. 7/1/2024   Eff. 7/1/2025   Eff. 7/1/2026
                 Inside  Outside Inside  Outside Inside  Outside
5/8 inch meter   $14.42  $16.51  $14.42  $16.51  $15.00  $17.17
3/4 inch meter   $17.76  $20.34  $17.76  $20.34  $18.47  $21.15
1 inch meter     $26.92  $30.82  $26.92  $30.82  $28.00  $32.06
1 1/2 inch meter $54.38  $62.27  $54.38  $62.27  $56.56  $64.76
2 inch meter     $89.34  $102.29 $89.34  $102.29 $92.91  $106.38
3 inch meter     $197.56 $226.21 $197.56 $226.21 $205.46 $235.26
4 inch meter     $347.38 $397.75 $347.38 $397.75 $361.28 $413.66
6 inch meter     $755.24 $864.75 $755.24 $864.75 $785.45 $899.34
 
   (C)   Fire protection service.
      (1)   Public hydrant charges. Customers shall pay public hydrant charges
per month as follows:
 Eff. 7/1/2024  Eff. 7/1/2025  Eff. 7/1/2026
 Inside Outside Inside Outside Inside Outside
                 Eff. 7/1/2024   Eff. 7/1/2025   Eff. 7/1/2026
                 Inside  Outside Inside  Outside Inside  Outside
5/8 inch meter   $3.37   $3.86   $3.37   $3.86   $3.50   $4.01
3/4 inch meter   $3.37   $3.86   $3.37   $3.86   $3.50   $4.01
1 inch meter     $8.44   $9.66   $8.44   $9.66   $8.78   $10.05
1 1/2 inch meter $19.57  $22.41  $19.57  $22.41  $20.35  $23.31
2 inch meter     $33.75  $38.64  $33.75  $38.64  $35.10  $40.19
3 inch meter     $77.62  $88.87  $77.62  $88.87  $80.72  $92.42
4 inch meter     $138.36 $158.42 $138.36 $158.42 $143.89 $164.76
6 inch meter     $310.46 $355.48 $310.46 $355.48 $322.88 $369.70
 
      (2)   Private hydrants. Each owner of a private hydrant shall pay a per
hydrant annual rental charge as follows:
 
Eff. 7/1/2024   Eff. 7/1/2025   Eff. 7/1/2026
Inside  Outside Inside  Outside Inside  Outside
$397.75 $455.42 $397.75 $455.42 $413.66 $473.64
 
      (3)   Automatic sprinkler system. Each customer employing automatic
sprinklers for fire protection shall pay an annual fee per connection, in
accordance with the following schedule:
 Eff. 7/1/2024  Eff. 7/1/2025  Eff. 7/1/2026
 Inside Outside Inside Outside Inside Outside
              Eff. 7/1/2024       Eff. 7/1/2025       Eff. 7/1/2026
              Inside    Outside   Inside    Outside   Inside    Outside
2 inch meter  $119.30   $136.60   $119.30   $136.60   $124.07   $142.06
3 inch meter  $238.74   $273.36   $238.74   $273.36   $248.29   $284.29
4 inch meter  $477.35   $546.57   $477.35   $546.57   $496.44   $568.43
6 inch meter  $596.77   $683.30   $596.77   $683.30   $620.64   $710.63
8 inch meter  $716.08   $819.91   $716.08   $819.91   $744.72   $852.71
10 inch meter $1,034.26 $1,184.23 $1,034.26 $1,184.23 $1,075.63 $1,231.60
 
      (4)   Exemption.
         (a)   Customers that have installed their own complete fire protection
systems, including water storage facilities, and that do not utilize the city’s
fire flow capabilities are exempt from the above fire protection charges.
         (b)   However, such customers must reimburse the city for any water
provided by the city to fill the customers’ water storage facilities. The water
charges shall be based upon the above metered usage schedule.
   (D)   Bulk water sales. Customers that purchase water in bulk from the city
shall pay the following:
 
Annual program fee              $80
Base charge per occurrence      $18
Volume charge per 1,000 gallons Based on first 20,000 rate per phase.
 
   (E)   Non-recurring charges. The following schedule of charges is hereby
approved.
 
Base charge per occurrence Maximum allowed pursuant to state law as amended
Special meter test         $40
 
   (F)   Rates and charges outside corporate boundaries. Pursuant to I.C. 8-
1.5-3-8.1(d), the above rates and charges for service to property located
outside the corporate boundaries impose a rate or charge that is 14.5% higher
than for service within the corporate boundaries.
   (G)   Fees. As of July 1, 2022, the minimum fee for a water main tap is
$2,000. Fees will be assessed by size of the service line, as approved by the
Board.
   (H)   Bowman Acres and Chapman Estates First Section - fee. In addition to
the connection charges set forth in this section, all applicants for water
service in Bowman Acres and Chapman Estates First Section shall pay a special
connection charge of $2,159; provided, however, if the special connection
charge is paid on or before July 1, 1992, then the connection fee set forth in
divisions (B) or (C) above shall not be required.
   (I)   Hydrant meters.
      (1)   No person shall use or collect water from any public fire hydrant
without a metering device with a back flow preventer as approved by the water
utility.
      (2)   Hydrant meters may be installed on public fire hydrants at the
discretion of the City Water Utility Manager when conditions warrant for the
purpose of supply of water to any site. Such installation shall be supervised
by the water utility.
      (3)   The deposit fee for hydrant meters shall be:
 
Hydrant meters over 1 inch                $200
Hydrant meters up to and including 1 inch $75
 
      (4)   Customers who request water provided through a city-owned fire
hydrant shall pay the following:
 
                                     Daily fee of $24 plus the water consumed
Hydrant meters over 1 inch           which shall be charged at the current
                                     schedule of water rates
Hydrant meters up to and including 1 Daily fee of $13 plus the water consumed,
inch                                 which shall be charged at the current
                                     schedule of water rates
 
      (5)   A violation of this subchapter shall be subject to a fine up to
$2,500 per violation.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-14, passed 5-11-2022; Ord. 2022-
20, passed 6-8-2022; Ord. 2023-25, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 52.046 SALE OF UNTREATED WATER.
   (A)   Contracts for the sale of untreated water. The water utility, by and
through Council, may enter into contracts with other water utilities to sell
untreated water provided that any such contract must be duly approved by an
ordinance adopted by the Common Council, and maintained in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection.
   (B)   Schedule of rates for untreated water. There shall be and there are
hereby established for the use of and the service furnished by the water
utility, the following rates and charges based on the use of untreated water
supplied by the water utility to a delivery point which is located on an
existing service line:
      (1)   Multi-family dwelling metering. There shall not be more than four
apartment units, condominiums, or other multi-family dwellings metered on a
single water meter.
      (2)   Hydrant meters.
         (a)   No person shall use or collect water from any public fire
hydrant without a metering device approved by the water utility.
         (b)   Hydrant meters may be installed on public fire hydrants at the
discretion of the city’s water utility when conditions warrant for the purpose
of supply of water to any site. Such installation shall be supervised by the
water utility.
         (c)   The deposit fee for hydrant meters shall be:
 
Hydrant meters over 1 inch                $200
Hydrant meters up to and including 1 inch $75
 
         (d)   Temporary customers who request water provided through a city-
owned fire hydrant shall pay the following:
 
                                     Daily fee of $24 plus the water consumed
Hydrant meters over 1 inch           which shall be charged at the current
                                     schedule of water rates
Hydrant meters up to and including 1 Daily fee of $13 plus the water consumed,
inch                                 which shall be charged at the current
                                     schedule of water rates
 
         (e)   A violation of this subchapter shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $100 per violation.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.047 CHARGES WHEN WATER METER FAILS.
   In case of the failure of any meter, the water utility may bill compensation
on the average of billings for last six months before the meter failed to
register properly.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.048 COLLECTION ON DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGE.
   All bills for water service not paid within 15 days from the due date
thereof, as stated in such bills, shall be subject to a collection or deferred
payment charge of 10%.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.049 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Water service to any customer may be discontinued for the following reasons:
   (A)   Wasting or improper use after it has been called to the customer’s
attention;
   (B)   Refusal to pay bills within prescribed time;
   (C)   Interfering with, tampering with, or destroying any component of the
water distribution system; and/or
   (D)   Installing or causing to be installed a cross-connection.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.050 SHUT-OFF FOR NONPAYMENT.
   If bills are not paid within 15 days after the due date thereof, a written
notice of discontinuance of service shall be mailed via certified mail-return
receipt requested to the delinquent customer, or personally delivered to such
customer or a member of such customer’s household over the age of 18, at least
seven days before shutting off service.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.051 CHARGES TO TURN BACK ON.
   Before a reconnection is made after a delinquency is paid, an additional
charge of $50 during office hours and $100 after office hours for reinstating
the service shall be made and collected.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
WATER MANAGEMENT STRATEGY
§ 52.065 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to all customers.
   (B)   Secondary, or private water meters, used for the purpose of charging
for water use shall be prohibited unless prior written approval to install and/
or use such meters has been obtained from the Board.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.066 DECLARATION OF NEED.
   Based upon a report from the Mayor and the Water Utility Manager, with
respect to the status of any water shortage within the water service area, the
Board may adopt a declaration of need that:
   (A)   Establishes the level of water shortage as provided under §§
52.068 through
52.070 below;
   (B)   Sets forth the duration of such water conservation emergency; and
   (C)   Mandates appropriate conservative measures, which measures may
include, but not be limited to, any or all of those set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.067 CONSERVATIVE MEASURES.
   (A)   Conservative measures. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained herein, conservative measures for water conservation should be
practiced at all times by all customers. In the event of a declaration of a
water conservation emergency, any or all of the below-listed conservative
measures may become mandatory for the duration of such water conservation
emergency pursuant to a declaration of need adopted by the Board:
      (1)   Judiciously sprinkling, watering, or irrigating shrubbery, trees,
grass, ground covers, plants, vine gardens, vegetables, or any other vegetation
and eliminating wasteful sprinkling of impervious surfaces, such as streets and
sidewalks;
      (2)   Limiting water use while washing trucks, trailers, mobile homes,
railroad cars, or any other type of mobile equipment;
      (3)   Limiting water use while cleaning sidewalks, driveways, paved
areas, or other outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Repairing or replacing leaking water fixtures and service lines;
      (5)   Using appliances such as clothes washers and dishwashers only when
they are full;
      (6)   Turning off the water while brushing teeth or shaving;
      (7)   Using a higher lawnmower setting to provide natural ground shade
and promote the soil’s water retention;
      (8)   Washing cars with a bucket of soapy water and using a nozzle to
stop the flow of water from the hose between rinsing; and
      (9)   Covering swimming pools when not in use to reduce evaporation.
   (B)   Levels of conservation. In order to implement a water conservation
appropriate to the need of the water utility and its customers the following
levels of conservation are hereby established:
      (1)   Level 1 - voluntary conservation;
      (2)   Level 2 - restricted water use;
      (3)   Level 3 - prohibited water use; and
      (4)   Level 4 - water rationing.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.068 LEVEL 1 - VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   Upon the adoption of a declaration of need, customers shall be required to
reduce water consumption by practicing voluntary conservation techniques, which
techniques shall be identified by the water utility, as reasonable and
meaningful conservation techniques pursuant to notice, as set forth in §
52.073, in addition to which the city may also implement conservation pricing
and prohibitions to encourage water conservation.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.069 LEVEL 2 - RESTRICTED WATER USE.
   Upon the adoption of a declaration of need, during water shortages
determined to be severe, customers shall be prohibited from selected water uses
according to such terms and conditions as the Board shall adopt as part of its
declaration of need with notice to all customers as set forth in §
52.073.
   (A)   Level 2 shall be comprised of methods of restricting water usage by
customers to such times, terms, and conditions as the Mayor and/or Board shall
determine appropriate. Level 2 does not contemplate a severe water shortage in
the immediate future, but rather that mandatory conservation methods must be
imposed to ensure adequate water and pressure for future needs.
   (B)   The customers shall be requested to cease or reduce water use for such
items, including, but not limited to sprinkling, irrigating, or watering lawns,
ground cover, gardens, and other landscaping; washing of automobiles, trucks,
homes, or other non-essential equipment; the operation of ornamental fountains,
wading, and swimming pools (which do not employ a filter and recirculating
systems); and such other non-essential uses as may, from time to time, be
determined by the Board.
   (C)   Special consideration shall be given regarding those persons whose
businesses or livelihoods require a constant supply of water on a regular
basis. These businesses include, but are not limited to car washes, garden
centers, and restaurants.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.070 LEVEL 3 - PROHIBITED WATER USE.
   (A)   Level 3 prohibitions shall preclude the use of water as announced
under any preceding Level 2 restriction(s). Additionally, customers shall be
subjected to additional prohibitions which will be determined by the Board as
conditions and needs dictate, but shall not include water rationing.
   (B)   Unless an emergency exists, the Mayor shall call a special joint
meeting of the Board and Council prior to the utility adopting a Level 3 water
conservation condition. In the event that an emergency exists or it is
impractical to call a special joint session of the Board and Council, the Mayor
may declare a Level 3 water condition but shall convene the special joint
session as soon thereafter as possible.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.071 LEVEL 4 - WATER RATIONING.
   If based upon the initial report of the Mayor and the Water Utility Manager,
the Board, in its sole and absolute discretion determines that an extreme water
shortage exists, or is anticipated to exist, the Board may include within its
declaration of need mandatory conservation measures limiting water usage to the
following customer-types in the following manner.
   (A)   Residential customers shall be limited to 150 gallons per residential
unit per day or an amount as approved by the Board at the advice of the Mayor
and Water Utility Manager.
   (B)   Business, commercial, agricultural, and industrial customers shall be
limited to the volume of water deemed to be essential.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.072 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Board, upon recommendations from the Mayor and Water Utility Manager,
may establish exceptions to water rationing requirements deemed necessary to
provide for the adequate maintenance of health, safety, and sanitary conditions
within the city.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.073 NOTICE OF WATER CONSERVATION LEVEL TO CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Upon the adoption of a declaration of need by the Board, wherein said
declaration of need calls only for voluntary conservation measures, notice of
the issuance of such a declaration of need and the voluntary conservation
measures to be adopted shall be issued using one or more of the following
methods as deemed appropriate by the Board:
      (1)   Notice published in a local newspaper of general circulation;
      (2)   Notice through radio public service announcements;
      (3)   Notice through local access television station announcements;
      (4)   Notice through public service announcements on commercial
television stations; and
      (5)   Any other method deemed appropriate by the Board.
   (B)    If the declaration of need, as adopted by the Board, declares a need
for mandatory conservation measures or rationing, notice thereof shall be by
First Class, United States Mail, or by door-to-door distribution to each
current customer, and by electronic and print media, which notice shall be
deemed to have been effectively given at the conclusion of door to door
distribution or at noon of the third day after depositing notice in the United
States mail, whichever shall occur first.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.074 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every customer shall be subject to the enforcement provisions provided
in this subchapter except for the City Fire Department, and any state licensed
health care provider(s) which are or have been declared accepted by the Board.
   (B)   Any person determined to have violated the terms of a declaration of
necessity for a Level 2 water conservation shall be subject to a first-time
written warning by either the City Police Department, an employee of the water
utility, or such other authorized and designated employee of the city. In the
event said customer is determined to have continued to violate the terms and
conditions of a declaration for necessity for a Level 2 water conservation
measure, that person shall be cited with a written citation and subject to a
fine up to $2,500 plus costs, expenses, and fees, including the reasonable
attorney’s fees of the city.
   (C)   Any person who is determined to have violated the terms and conditions
of a Level 3 or 4 water conservation emergency shall be cited by the City
Police Department or water utility, or such other duly authorized and
designated employee of the city, with violation of this subchapter. A fine may
be imposed against said violator in the sum up to $2,500 plus costs, expenses,
and fees, including the reasonable attorney’s fees of the city. Additionally,
the water utility shall disconnect the water service to any such customer, at
the time the citation is issued, or as soon thereafter as possible.
Continuation of water service shall be recommended upon the payment of a
reconnection fee of $100.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person determined to have violated §
52.004 shall be fined up to $2,500 per occurrence. Any violator of this §
52.004 shall be further subject to a fine equal to the replacement costs and
damages which will be added for repair charges to any portion of the
distribution system, and the labor and equipment charges for such repairs.
   (C)   Any person determined to have violated this §
52.005 shall be fined $2,500 per occurrence. Any violator of this §
52.005 shall be further subject to a fine equal to the replacement costs and
damages which will be added for repair charges to any portion of the
distribution system, and the labor and equipment charges for such repairs. In
the case of any automobile or vehicular accident involving the breaking or
disconnection of a public fire hydrant or any component of the water
distribution system, the party responsible for causing such damage, shall pay
for the repair or replacement, including, but not limited to, the cost of
installation.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 53: UTILITY DEPOSIT POLICIES
Section
   
53.01   General requirements
   
53.02   Applicants
   
53.03   Present customer
   
53.04   Interest on deposits
   
53.05   Refunds
§ 53.01 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall determine the creditworthiness of an applicant or customer in
an equitable and nondiscriminatory manner.
(Ord. 1989-7, passed 6-8-1989; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 53.02 APPLICANTS.
   (A)   Each new applicant for residential utility service shall be deemed
creditworthy and shall not be required to make a cash deposit as a condition of
receiving service if the applicant satisfies the following criteria:
      (1)   Applicant has been a customer of any utility within the last two
years;
      (2)   Owes no outstanding bills for service rendered by any such utility;
      (3)   Did not have during the last 12 consecutive months that the service
was provided, more than one delinquent bill to any utility or, if service has
been rendered for a period of less than 12 months, has not had more than one
delinquent bill in such period; and
      (4)   Within the last two years did not have a service disconnected for a
utility for non-payment of a bill for services rendered by that utility.
   (B)   If the applicant fails to establish that he or she is creditworthy
pursuant to the above criteria, the applicant may be required to make a cash
deposit for each utility service. The deposits shall be as follows:
City Municipal Utilities Schedule of Deposits
Electric:
   Residential:
      Basic   $100
      All Electric   $150
   Commercial:
      Single-Phase   $200
      Three-Phase   $300
Water:
   Residential:   $50
   Commercial:
      Small Commercial User   $100
       (less than 50,000 gallons per month)
      Large Commercial User   $300
       (more than 50,000 gallons per month )
   (C)   If the utility denies service or requires a cash deposit as a
condition of providing service, then it must immediately send a written notice
to the applicant stating the precise facts upon which it bases its decision and
provide the applicant with an opportunity to rebut such facts and show other
facts demonstrating his or her creditworthiness.
(Ord. 1989-7, passed 6-8-1989; Ord. 2008-17, passed 9-10-2008; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 53.03 PRESENT CUSTOMER.
   (A)   Any utility may require a present customer to make a cash deposit when
the customer has been mailed disconnect notices for two consecutive months or
any three months within the preceding 12-month period, or when the service has
been disconnected pursuant to the rules for non-payment.
   (B)   The amount of such deposit shall be the same as in §
53.02(B).
(Ord. 1989-7, passed 6-8-1989; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 53.04 INTEREST ON DEPOSITS.
   As the deposits for creditworthy customers will be refunded after a timely
payment record has been established, no interest will be paid on customer
deposits.
(Ord. 1989-7, passed 6-8-1989; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 53.05 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Any deposit shall be refunded along with a statement accounting for
each transaction involving the deposit, upon satisfactory payment by the
customer for a period of 12 successive months.
   (B)   Following customer-requested termination of service, the utility shall
apply the deposit to the final bill, or, upon specific request from the
customer, the utility shall refund the deposit within 45 days after payment of
the final bill.
   (C)   Each utility shall maintain a record of each applicant or customer
making a deposit which shows:
      (1)   The name of the customer and social security number;
      (2)   The amount of the deposit;
      (3)   The date the deposit was made; and
      (4)   A record of each transaction affecting such deposit.
   (D)   Any deposit which has remained unclaimed for seven years after the
utility has made diligent effort to locate the person who made such deposit or
the heirs of such persons shall be presumed abandoned and treated in accordance
with the laws of this state.
   (E)   A deposit may be used by the utility to cover any unpaid balance
following disconnection of service provided, however, that any surplus be
returned to the customer as provided above.
   (F)   Existing customers that have already made deposits will not be
required to make additional deposits so long as they adhere to the utilities’
payment policies. Pursuant to the provisions of the prior customer deposit
policy, accrued deposit interest will be computed through the date of enactment
of this chapter and credited to each customer’s deposit record.
(Ord. 1989-7, passed 6-9-1989; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Authority and title
   
54.002   Definitions
   
54.003   Purpose
   
54.004   Responsibility for administration
   
54.005   Ultimate responsibility
   
54.006   Conflicting ordinances
   
54.007   Disclaimer of liability
   
54.008   Development of technical manual
Stormwater Utility
   
54.100   Purpose
   
54.101   Stormwater utility user fee
   
54.102   Payment in lieu of taxes
   
54.103   Stormwater utility user fee structure
   
54.104   Billing and connection
   
54.105   Program administration
   
54.106   Stormwater utility account
Prohibited Discharges and Connections; Illicit Discharges
   
54.200   Applicability and exemptions
   
54.201   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
54.202   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
54.203   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
54.204   Private property maintenance duties
   
54.205   Spill reporting
   
54.206   Access to facilities
   
54.207   Inspections and monitoring
   
54.208   Suspension of drainage system access
   
54.209   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
54.210   Illicit discharge enforcement
Stormwater Quantity Management and Flood Hazard
   
54.300   Stormwater quantity applicability and exemptions
   
54.301   Flood and stormwater quantity general requirements
   
54.302   Flood and stormwater quantity technical requirements
   
54.303   Drainage easement requirements
   
54.304   Placement of utilities
   
54.305   Structures near county regulated drains
   
54.306   Review process and approval
   
54.307   Owner operation and maintenance
   
54.308   Owner responsibilities
Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites
   
54.400   Applicability and exemptions
   
54.401   Stormwater quality control general requirements
   
54.402   Stormwater quality control technical requirements
   
54.403   Easement requirements
   
54.404   Owner operation and maintenance
   
54.405   Erosion and sediment control general requirements
   
54.406   Erosion and sediment control technical requirements
Stormwater Management Submittals and Approval
   
54.500   Applicability and exemptions
   
54.501   Application
   
54.502   Plan review
   
54.503   Stormwater plan review fees
   
54.504   Required performance and assurances
   
54.505   Construction site owner responsibilities after approval
   
54.506   Operation and maintenance
   
54.507   City inspections
Individual Lots/Plot Plans
   
54.600   Approval procedures for individual lots
   
54.601   Changes to plans
Enforcement
   
54.700   Compliance with this chapter
   
54.701   Enforcement actions
   
54.702   Maintenance noncompliance after construction
   
54.703   Failure to comply or complete
   
54.704   Suspension of access to the storm drain system
   
54.705   Corrective action by the city
   
54.706   Appeals
   
54.707   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
54.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted per statutory authority granted to the City
Council under "Home Rule," and is required by Phase II of the National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System program (FR Doc. 99-29181) authorized by
the 1972 amendments to the Clean Water Act and the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management's Construction Stormwater General Permit (CSGP) and
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System General Permit (MS4GP). Based on this
authority and these requirements, this chapter regulates:
      (1)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the stormwater
drainage system;
      (2)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development of lands
located within the city boundaries;
      (3)   Drainage control systems installed during new construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land;
      (4)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during new
construction and grading of lots and other parcels of land;
      (5)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems;
      (6)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems; and
      (7)   Development within floodways and fluvial erosion hazard corridors.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Greenfield
Stormwater Management Ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACOE. United States Army Corps of Engineers.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations to produce agricultural or nursery vegetative crops. The
term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the construction of
agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and maintenance of
agricultural drainage tile. For purposes of this chapter or standards, the term
does not include land-disturbing activities for the construction of
agricultural related facilities, such as barns, buildings to house livestock,
roads associated with infrastructure, agricultural waste lagoons and
facilities, lakes and ponds, wetlands; and other infrastructure.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL. The Greenfield City Engineer or designated city
employee or an agent of the city authorized in writing by the Board to
administer or enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   BASE FLOW. Stream discharge derived from groundwater sources as
differentiated from surface runoff. Sometimes considered to include flows from
regulated lakes or reservoirs.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Design, construction, and maintenance
practices and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
   CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY). The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
   CATCH BASIN. A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the
admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base a
sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of overflow.
   CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which periodically
or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting link between
two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to confine the
water.
   CITY. The incorporated City of Greenfield, Indiana.
   CODE. The Code of Greenfield, Indiana.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. The replacement of the existing floodplain and, in
rare exceptions, the floodway storage lost due to fill.
   CONSTRUCTED WETLAND. A manmade shallow pool that creates growing conditions
suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize pollutant removal.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land-disturbing activities and land-disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
   CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER GENERAL PERMIT (CSGP). Indiana Department of
Environmental Management's Construction Stormwater General Permit (CSGP)
regulating erosion and sediment control practices on construction projects
disturbing greater than one acre of land.
   CONSTRUCTION SUPPORT ACTIVITY. An activity that specifically supports the
project and involves land disturbance and/or activities that may result in
pollutant-generating activities on their own. These activities include but are
not limited to concrete or asphalt batch plants, staging areas, material
storage areas, disposal sites, and soil stockpile areas.
   CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
   CONTRACTOR or SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the project
site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot operator to
perform services on the project site.
   CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
   CROSS-SECTION. A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream valley or
a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream or direction
of flow.
   CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage water
under a roadway, railroad, canal, or other impediment.
   CWA. Clean Water Act.
   DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has either sat
idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than 0.05 milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
   DESIGN STORM. A selected storm event, described in terms of the probability
of occurring once within a given number of years, for which drainage or flood
control improvements are designed and built.
   DETENTION. The temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a basin, pond, or
other structure to control the peak discharge rates by holding the stormwater
for a period and which provides some gravity settling of particulates.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow of
stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the excess
waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
   DETRITUS. Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed to
stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Any lot or parcel of land altered from its natural state
by the construction, creation, or addition of impervious area, except public
streets and highways.
   DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity, or
an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any lots
in a multiple-lot project.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to the below. DEVELOPMENT does not include activities
such as the maintenance of existing buildings and facilities such as painting,
re-roofing, resurfacing roads, gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural
practices that do not involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction
of permanent buildings.
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site;
      (3)   For more than 180 days;
      (4)   Installing utilities, construction of walls, construction of roads,
or similar projects;
      (5)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, or channel improvements;
      (6)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, clearing,
deforestation, or drilling operations;
      (7)   Construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (8)   Storage of materials; or
      (9)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   DISCHARGE. Usually the rate of water flow. A volume of fluid passing a point
per unit time commonly expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters per
second, gallons per minute, or millions of gallons per day.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking, or placing
of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so that the
solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may enter the
environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any waters,
including ground waters.
   DITCH. A man-made, open watercourse in or into which excess surface water or
groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
   DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
   DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
means of ditches or subsurface drains.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may be
of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow, and base flow, but
generally, the surface runoff area is considered as the drainage area.
   DRY WELL. A type of infiltration practice that allows stormwater runoff to
flow directly into the ground via a bored or otherwise excavated opening in the
ground surface.
   DURATION. The period of a rainfall event.
   DWELLING UNIT. A group of rooms that are used or are intended to be used by
one household primarily for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating, or as
classified by the City Building Code.
   ENVIRONMENT. The total of all the external conditions that may act upon a
living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
   ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI). The soil erodibility index (EI) provides a numerical
expression of the potential for soil to erode considering the physical and
chemical properties of the soil and the climatic conditions where it is
located. The higher the index, the greater the investment needed to maintain
the sustainability of the soil resource base if intensively cropped. It is
defined to be the maximum of (RxKxLS)/T (from the Universal Soil Loss Equation)
and (CxI)/T (from the Wind Erosion Equation), where R is a measure of rainfall
and runoff, K is a factor of the susceptibility of the soil to water erosion,
LS is a measure of the combined effects of slope length and steepness, C is a
climatic characterization of wind speed and surface soil moisture and I is a
measure of the susceptibility of the soil to wind erosion. Erodibility Index
scores equal to or greater than eight are considered highly erodible land.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice, gravity,
or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe different
types of water erosion:
      ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal or geologic
erosion, primarily because of the activities of man.
      CHANNEL EROSION. An erosion process whereby the volume and velocity of
flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
      GULLY EROSION. An erosion process whereby runoff water accumulates in
narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the soil to
considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 to 100 feet.
      RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small channels only
several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently disturbed and exposed
soils.
      SHEET EROSION. The gradual removal of a uniform layer of soil from the
land surface by runoff water.
      SPLASH EROSION. The spattering of small soil particles caused by the
impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may or
may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of
practices, to minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion
at the source and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being
discharged from or within a project site.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). The base unit for determining stormwater
charges. An ERU represents the average amount of impervious area of a single-
family residential property within the city and is established as 2,250 square
feet of impervious area.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL MATERIAL. Any material used for the primary purpose of replacing a
wetland area with dry land or of changing the bottom elevation of a wetland or
a waterbody. This definition shall be automatically amended to conform with the
definition of FILL MATERIAL established from time to time by the United States
of America or United States Army Corps of Engineers.
   FILTER STRIP. An area of undisturbed or planted vegetation used retard or
collect sediment for the protection of watercourses, reservoirs, or adjacent
properties.
   FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
   FLOOD (or FLOOD WATERS). A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel which
have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year flood. Any
normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by water from any
natural source. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain lying outside the floodway,
which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
   FOOTING DRAIN. A drainpipe installed around the exterior of a basement wall
foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater elevation.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semisolid wastes
resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving, or
consumption of food or food materials.
   GASOLINE OUTLET. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
primary function is the resale of fuels.
   GRADE.
      (1)   The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, etc., or
natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage the
vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
      (2)   The finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment, or
bottom of excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the
support of construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit.
      (3)   To finish the surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment,
bottom of excavation, or other land area to a smooth, even condition.
   GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope or
elevation.
   GRASS. A member of the botanical family Poaceae, characterized by blade-like
leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
   GROUNDWATER. Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial. The
term does not include manmade underground storage or conveyance structures.
   HABITAT. The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal are
supplied.
   HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND. Land that has an erodibility index of eight or more.
The soil erodibility index provides a numerical expression of the potential for
a soil to erode considering the physical and chemical properties of the soil
and the climatic conditions where it is located. The higher the index, the
greater the investment needed to maintain the sustainability of the soil
resource base if intensively cropped. It is defined to be the maximum of
(RxKxLS)/T (from the Universal Soil Loss Equation) and (CxI)/T (from Wind
Erosion Equation), where R is a measure of rainfall and runoff, K is a factor
of the susceptibility of the soil to water erosion, LS is a measure of the
combined effects of slope length and steepness, C is a climatic
characterization of windspeed and surface solid moisture and I is a measure of
the susceptibility of the soil to wind erosion. erodibility index scores equal
to or greater than eight are considered highly erodible land.
   IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   IDNR. Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or
tree limbs. Sources of illicit discharges include but are not limited to,
sanitary wastewater, septic tank effluent, commercial car wash wastewater, oil
spills or disposal, radiator flushing disposal, laundry wastewater, roadway
accidental spillage, pollutant run-off, and household hazardous waste.
   IMPAIRED WATERS. Waters that do not or are not expected to meet applicable
water quality standards, as included on IDEM's CWA Section 303(d) List of
Impaired Waters.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. Any part of any developed property that has been modified
by the action of persons to reduce the land's natural ability to absorb and
hold rainfall. This includes buildings, any hard surface area which either
prevents or retards the entry of water into the soil, and other impervious
surfaces.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any land surface with a low or no capacity for soil
infiltration, including, but not limited to pavement (sidewalks, streets,
parking areas, and driveways), packed gravel or soil, and rooftops.
   INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT or INDIVIDUAL LOT. A single parcel of land within a
multi-parcel development. Typically, individual lots disturb or impact between
10,000 square feet and less than one acre, either individually or as part of a
larger permitted project.
   INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual lot.
   INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial interest in construction
activities for an individual lot.
   INFILTRATION. Passage or movement of water into the soil. Infiltration
practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
run-off through the soil to groundwater. Examples include infiltration basins
or trenches, dry wells, and porous pavement.
   INLET. An opening into a stormwater drainage system for the entrance of
surface stormwater runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface, including
removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil, excavating,
filling, transporting, and grading.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT or LID. Systems and practices that use or mimic
natural processes that result in the infiltration, evapotranspiration, or use
of stormwater to protect water quality and associated aquatic habitat.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent (abutting)
to a structure, where the soil meets the foundation/around the outside of the
structure (including structural members such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well).
   LOWEST FLOOR. Refers to the lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the basement floor;
      (2)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the building;
      (3)   The top of the first floor of buildings constricted on a slab or of
buildings elevated on pilings or constructed on a crawl space with permanent
openings; or
      (4)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet of enclosed
area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher
than one-foot above grade.
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable only for the parking of
vehicles or building access.
   MANHOLE. Storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. A performance standard or requirement within a
permit to reduce the discharge of pollutants from an MS4 to protect water
quality, and to satisfy the appropriate water quality requirements of the Clean
Water Act; which is achieved through planning and implementation of specific
measures that are identified in the Stormwater Quality Management Plan (SWQMP).
The term applies to an MS4 that demonstrates to IDEM's satisfaction that a
performance standard is not achievable and that a lower level of performance is
appropriate. The MS4 must document that all reasonable and economical options
have been evaluated, considered, and/or implemented to comply and achieve the
requirements of the permit, except those where it can demonstrate that they are
not technically feasible in the locality, or whose cost would exceed any water
quality benefit.
   MULCH. A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover, and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A lot or parcel of land on which is
situated a building containing three or more dwelling units, or on which two or
more buildings containing multiple dwelling units are situated.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM or MS4. The regulatory definition of
an MS4 (40 CFR 122.26(b)(8)) is a conveyance or system of conveyances
(including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, man-made channels, or storm drains): (i) Owned or operated by
a state, city, town, borough, county, parish, district, association, or other
public body (created to or under state law) including special districts under
state law such as a sewer district, flood control district or drainage
district, or similar entity, or an Indian tribe or an authorized Indian tribal
organization, or a designated and approved management agency under section 208
of the Clean Water Act that discharges into waters of the United States; (ii)
Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater; (iii) Which is not a
combined sewer; and (iv) Which is not part of a publicly owned treatment works
(POTW) as defined at 40 CFR 122.2.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM GENERAL PERMIT or MS4GP. The Indiana
Department of Environmental Management's Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
General Permit.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES. A permit developed
by the EPA through the CWA. In Indiana, the permitting process has been
delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal stormwater quality.
   NON-POINT SOURCE DISCHARGE. Discharges generally resulting from land runoff,
precipitation, atmospheric deposition, drainage, seepage, or hydrologic
modification. Non-point source discharges, unlike pollution from industrial and
sewage treatment plants, come from many diffuse sources. It is caused by
rainfall or snowmelt moving over and through the ground. As the runoff moves,
it picks up and carries away natural and human-made pollutants, finally
depositing them into lakes, rivers, wetlands, coastal waters, and ground
waters.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL (NR) PROPERTY. All properties not encompassed within the
definition of residential property, including but not limited to commercial,
industrial, retail, multi-family residential, agricultural, governmental,
institutional, schools and churches.
   NOTICE OF INTENT or NOI. A form provided by IDEM for the project site owner
to complete and submit to IDEM and the Stormwater Management Department at
least 48 hours before initiating construction activities at the construction
site.
   NOTICE OF TERMINATION or NOT. A form provided by IDEM for the project site
owner to submit to IDEM and the Stormwater Management Department that the
construction activities for a site have been terminated and have met the
requirements of this chapter.
   NUTRIENT(S).
      (1)   A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction of organisms.
      (2)   In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates) that
promote growth of algae and bacteria.
   OPEN DRAIN. A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that conveys
drainage water.
   OPEN SPACE. Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious surfaces
created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural, or other man-
made activities.
   OUTFALL. The point, location, or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
   OUTLET. The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake, tidewater,
or artificial drain.
   PARCEL. The smallest separately segregated lot, unit or plot of land having
an identified owner, boundaries, and surface area which is documented for
property tax purposes by the Center Township or Hancock County Assessor.
   PEAK DISCHARGE (or PEAK FLOW). The maximum instantaneous flow from a given
storm condition at a specific location.
   PERCOLATION. The movement of water through soil.
   PERMITTEE. The individual or entity required to obtain a permit coverage as
defined by project site owner.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, corporation, partnership, institution, or
other entity.
   PERVIOUS. Allowing movement of water.
   POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance including
but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure, or container from which pollutants are or may be discharged (P.L. 92-
500, Section 502[14]).
   POLLUTANT. Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include but are not limited to paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; sediments, metals, pesticides, herbicides, and
fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and
pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues
that result from constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive
matter of any kind.
   POROUS PAVEMENT. A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality and
reduce the quantity of stormwater run-off via the use of man-made, pervious
pavement which allows run-off to percolate through the pavement and into
underlying soils.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment work.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the State of
Indiana to practice professional engineering.
   PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
   PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit a stormwater management
application and required to comply with the terms of this chapter, including a
developer or a person who has financial and operational control of construction
activities, and project plans and specifications, including the ability to make
modifications to those plans and specifications.
   RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL, or RECEIVING WATER. The body of water
into which runoff or effluent is discharged. The term does not include private
drains, unnamed conveyances, retention and detention basins, or constructed
wetlands used as treatment.
   RECHARGE. Replenishment of groundwater reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Alterations of a property that change a site or building in
such a way that there is disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of land. The
term does not include such activities as exterior remodeling.
   REFUELING AREA. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose primary
function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-year
flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
accepted by the IDNR and the FEMA. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known as the
"base flood."
   RELEASE RATE. The amount of stormwater released from a stormwater control
facility per unit of time.
   RESERVOIR. A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space used
for storage, regulation, or control of water. May be either permanent or
temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any parcel or group of parcels within the city on
which a single building or mobile home is situated, containing up to but not
more than two dwelling units. The parcel(s) may also contain accessory
structure(s) such as a yard shed or garage, as allowed by city ordinances. Each
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY shall be assigned one ERU.
   RETENTION. The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
   RETENTION BASIN. A type of storage practice, that has no positive outlet,
used to retain stormwater run-off for an indefinite amount of time. Runoff from
this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous bottom or
by evaporation.
   RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a return period of 100
years has a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one year.
   RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a waterbody that supports animal
and plant life associated with that waterbody.
   RUNOFF. Water that originates during a precipitation event and flows over
the land as surface water rather than infiltrating into the ground or
evaporating.
   RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the stormwater drainage system to the total
amount of rain falling. A coefficient of one- half implies that 50% of the rain
falling on a given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
   SEDIMENTATION. The settling and accumulation of unconsolidated sediment
carried by stormwater run-off.
   SENSITIVE AREA. Areas with highly erodible soils, wetlands, threatened or
endangered species habitat, outstanding waters, impaired waters, recreational
waters, and surface drinking water sources. Includes, waterbodies in need of
priority protection or remediation based on its:
      (1)   Providing habitat for threatened or endangered species;
      (2)   Usage as a public water supply intake;
      (3)   Relevant community value;
      (4)   Usage for full body contact recreation;
      (5)   Limited use and outstanding state resource water classification as
found in 327 IAC 2-1-11) and 327 IAC 2-1.5-19.
   SFHA. Special flood hazard areas.
   SILVICULTURAL. The practice or controlling the establishment, growth,
composition, health, and quality of forests to meet diverse needs and values.
      (1)   Nonpoint activities that do not require permit coverage include
source silvicultural activities such as nursery operations, site preparation,
reforestation, and subsequent cultural treatment, thinning, prescribed burning,
pest and fire control, harvesting operations, surface drainage, or logging road
construction and maintenance from which there is natural runoff. Some of these
activities (such as stream crossing for roads) may involve the placement of
dredged or fill material which may require a CWA section 404 permit and a 401
Water Quality Certification.
      (2)   Point source activities, subject to permit coverage include any
discernible confined and discrete conveyance related to rock crushing, gravel
washing, log sorting, or log storage facilities which are operated in
connection with silvicultural activities and from which pollutants are
discharged into waters of the United States or the state.
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land-disturbing activity is to be performed.
   SLOPE. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as a
numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is commonly
the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance (rise) -
e.g., 2:1. However, the preferred method for designation of slopes is to
clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length (L) and
width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that according to
international standards (metric), the slopes are presented as the vertical or
width component shown on the numerator - e.g., 1 V:2H. Slope expressions in
this chapter follow the common presentation of slopes - e.g., 2: 1 with the
metric presentation shown in parenthesis - e.g., (1V:2H). Slopes can also be
expressed in "percent." Slopes given in percent are always expressed as (100*V/
H) - e.g., a 2:1 (1V:2H) slope is a 50% slope.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, debris, or other discarded material.
   SPILL. The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping, leakage,
drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum, hazardous substances,
extremely hazardous substances, or objectionable substances. The term does not
include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does not migrate off
the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
   STABILIZED. The establishment, at a uniform density of 70% across the
disturbed area, of vegetative cover or noninvasive material that will ensure
the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or other movement.
   STANDARDS. The City of Greenfield Public Improvement Design Standards and
Specifications Manual.
   STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration storm event
is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a "storm drain."
   STORMWATER. Water resulting from 'rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or man-made, used for
conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets, and pumping stations.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT APPLICATION. Documentation required for submittal to
the city for approval to commence construction (STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
APPROVAL).
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT APPROVAL. The written declaration of acceptance of the
application for construction approval; in the form of the SWPPP Technical
Review form.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN or SWPPP. A plan developed to minimize
the impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction activities.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a tributary
basin, flowing over the surface of the ground, or collected in channels or
conduits.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM. All constructed facilities and structures and natural
watercourses under the ownership or control of the city, used for collecting
and conducting stormwater to, through and from drainage areas to the point of
final outlet, including, but not limited to, any and all of the following:
inlets, conduits and appurtenant features, creeks, channels, catch basins,
ditches, streams, streets, culverts, retention or detention basins and pumping
stations; but excluding therefrom, any part of the system of drains and
watercourses under the jurisdiction of the Hancock County Drainage Board or
waters of the State of Indiana.
   STORMWATER UTILITY USER. The owner of a lot or parcel within the city.
   STORMWATER UTILITY USER FEE. A charge or user fee authorized by I.C. 8-1.5-
5 and imposed on all stormwater utility users.
   STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided into lots,
whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for the sale or lease as
part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
   SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A pervious backfield trench, usually containing stone and
perforated pipe, for intercepting groundwater or seepage.
   SURFACE RUNOFF. Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground, etc., and is not absorbed or retained by that surface but
collects and runs off.
   SURFACE WATER. Water occurring on the surface of the land, from natural
causes such as rainfall, whether falling on the land in question or flowing
onto the land in question.
   SWALE. An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least
seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing
water. Swales conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide
some groundwater recharge.
   TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding, or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch, or other nonerosive material applied at a uniform density of
70% across the disturbed area.
   TILE DRAIN. Pipe made of perforated plastic, burned clay, concrete, or
similar material, laid to a designed grade and depth, to collect and carry
excess water from the soil.
   TIMBER HARVESTING. Cutting tree branches and trunks for commercial purposes
without disturbing the root system.
   TOPOGRAPHIC INFORMATION. Graphical portrayal of the topographic features of
a land area, showing both the horizontal distances between the features and
their elevations above a given datum.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The representation of a portion of the earth's surface showing
natural and manmade features of a given locality such as rivers, streams,
ditches, lakes, roads, buildings and most importantly, variations in ground
elevations for the terrain of the area.
   TRAINED/QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced
in the principles of stormwater management, including erosion and sediment
control as is demonstrated by completion of coursework, state registration,
professional certification, or annual training that enable the individual to
make judgments regarding stormwater management, treatment, and monitoring.
   UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY. Property which has not been altered from its natural
state by the addition of any improvements such as a building, structure, or
impervious surface, change of grade or landscaping. For new construction, a
property shall be considered developed pursuant to this chapter:
      (1)   Upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy, or upon completion of
construction or final inspection if no such certificate is issued; or
      (2)   Where construction is at least 50% completed.
   URBANIZATION. The development, change, or improvement of any parcel of land
consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational, or public utility purposes.
   USEPA. United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   UTILITY BILLING PERSONNEL. Employees within the Greenfield Utilities
Department charged with account establishment, creation, and distribution of
regular invoices, and recording of charges and payments for each account, as
well as related enforcement allowed within this chapter.
   WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
   WATER RESOURCES. The supply of groundwater and surface water in each area.
   WATERBODY. Any accumulation of water, surface, or underground, natural, or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
   WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or man-made
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a specific point
that could be along a stream, lake, or other stormwater facilities. Watersheds
are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic modeling.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA or WHPA. Having the meaning set forth at 327 IAC 8-
4.1-1(27).
   WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps,
marshes, bogs, and similar areas. This definition shall be considered to be
automatically amended to conform with the definition of a wetlands established
from time to time by the United States of America or COE.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of
stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system and to
protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources within the city boundaries. This chapter establishes methods for
managing the quantity and quality of stormwater entering the stormwater
drainage system to comply with state and federal requirements.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by
excessive stormwater runoff;
      (2)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the stormwater
drainage system from construction site runoff;
      (3)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the stormwater
drainage system from runoff from new development and re-development;
      (4)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the stormwater drainage system;
and
      (5)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
monitoring, and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.004 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter through the City of Greenfield's Stormwater Utility. Any powers granted
or duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in
writing by the City Council, the City Board of Public Works and Safety, or the
City Stormwater Utility to qualified persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of city government.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.005 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated under this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will not be violations of NPDES
permits.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.006 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional requirements to
minimum standards required by other city ordinances and as supplemental
requirements to IDEM's CSGP and MS4GP. In case of conflicting requirements, the
most restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.007 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records, engineering, and
scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or stormwater runoff
amounts or stormwater quality may be altered by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater
damage. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the City
Council, the City Board of Public Works and Safety, the City Stormwater
Utility, the City Engineer, or any officer, representative, or employee
thereof, for any damage which may result from reliance on this chapter or on
any administrative decision lawfully made there under.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.008 DEVELOPMENT OF TECHNICAL MANUAL.
   The city has furnished additional policy, criteria, and information
including specifications and standards, for the proper implementation of the
requirements of this chapter and has provided such information in the form of
the City of Greenfield Stormwater Technical Standards Manual (Standards). The
Standards include a list of approved stormwater management measures, including
specific design criteria and operation and maintenance requirements for each.
The Standards may be updated and expanded from time to time, at the discretion
of the city, based on improvements in engineering, science, monitoring, and
local maintenance experience. Stormwater management measures that are
constructed per these design and sizing criteria are presumed to meet the
minimum performance standards.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
STORMWATER UTILITY
§ 54.100 PURPOSE.
   To promote the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
city, and per the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5, there is hereby established the
Greenfield Stormwater Utility.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.101 STORMWATER UTILITY USER FEE.
   A stormwater utility user fee shall be imposed on every lot or parcel of
real property within the city, including those classified as non-profit or tax-
exempt, for services and facilities provided by the stormwater utility. This
user fee is deemed reasonable and is necessary to pay for the repair,
replacement, planning, improvement, operation, regulation, and maintenance of
the existing and future stormwater system for the city.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.102 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   The municipal stormwater utility of the city shall annually provide to the
civil city an amount the civil city could have received if the municipal
stormwater utility property were publicly owned, and therefore directs the
municipal stormwater utility to pay to the civil city an amount not to exceed
$1,200 as decided by the Common Council in its annual budget, with one-twelfth
of said amount to be paid monthly to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.103 STORMWATER UTILITY USER FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   A stormwater utility user fee shall be imposed on all residential and
non-residential property within the city, including those classified as non-
profit or tax-exempt, for services and facilities provided by the stormwater
utility. This user fee is deemed reasonable and is necessary to pay for the
repair, replacement, planning, improvement, operation, regulation, and
maintenance of the existing and future stormwater system for the city.
   (B)   For the purposes stated herein, there is hereby assessed a stormwater
utility user fee to each stormwater utility user within the corporate limits of
the city, in an amount determined below. For purposes of imposing the
stormwater utility user fee, all lots and parcels within the city are
classified as either residential or non-residential and shall be assessed a
monthly base fee of $4 effective October 1, 2008. In addition to the base fee,
the following variable charge shall also be levied:
      (1)   Residential. A monthly user fee of $2 per ERU shall be charged to
each residential property. Each residential property is hereby assigned one
ERU. Each parcel of undeveloped property, notwithstanding zoning or property
classification, is assigned one ERU.
      (2)   Non-residential properties. A monthly user fee of $2 per ERU shall
be charged to each non-residential (NR) property. For each NR property, the
total amount of impervious surface will be computed in square feet and divided
by 2,250 square feet to determine the number of ERU contained on the property.
The resultant will be rounded up or down to the nearest whole number to
determine the total ERU, but the minimum shall not be less than one ERU.
Provided, however, that the maximum total monthly charge for each municipal,
township, county, state, or federal NR property shall not exceed $450.
   (C)   The stormwater utility user fee shall be based on the relative
contribution of surface and stormwater runoff from a given parcel to the city's
stormwater system and shall be assessed per ERU per month. Any billings for
stormwater service outside this time shall be on a per diem basis. This
stormwater utility user fee rate is designed to recover and be able to pay the
cost of rendering stormwater service to the users of the stormwater system and
shall be the basis for assessment of the city's stormwater utility user fee.
This rate is established to maintain adequate fund reserves to provide for
reasonably expected variations in the cost of providing services, as well as
variation in the demand for services. This rate shall be evaluated annually as
to its sufficiency to satisfy the needs of the stormwater utility. The
following methods may be used to determine the non-residential factors:
      (1)   Computation of the impervious area using on-site measurements of
the apparent outside boundaries in or on such developed property made by the
city or on its behalf;
      (2)   Computation of the impervious area using the dimensions that are
set forth and contained in the records of the office of the Hancock County
Assessor or Center Township Assessor;
      (3)   Estimation, calculation, and computation of the impervious area
using aerial photography or photogrammetry, or as contained in the records of
the city or county; or
      (4)   Computation of impervious areas using data provided by the owner,
tenant, or developer. The authorized official may require additional
information as necessary to make the determination.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.104 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Bills or statements for the stormwater utility user fee shall be
rendered monthly, per the regular Greenfield Utilities billing cycle, for all
properties subject to the fee. Bills shall be payable at the same time and in
the same manner and subject to the same penalties as set forth for the sewer
utility. Any partial payment of a combined utility bill shall be applied first
to the stormwater utility user fee. Any unpaid stormwater utility user fees
shall constitute a lien on such property and shall be on par with the lien of
state, county, and municipal taxes. The lien, when delinquent for more than 30
days, may be foreclosed by the city in the manner provided by the laws of
Indiana for the foreclosure of mortgages on real property.
   (B)   For properties normally receiving monthly utility bills for other city
services, the stormwater utility user fee shall be included in the monthly bill
rendered to the established owner/customer.
   (C)   For properties not receiving monthly utility bills for other city
services, the bill or statement for the stormwater utility user fee shall be
sent to the stormwater utility user as determined from the tax rolls.
   (D)   The owner of a property is ultimately responsible for all fees imposed
under this chapter.
   (E)   Requests for adjustment of the stormwater utility user fee shall be
submitted through the authorized official, who shall be given authority to
administer the procedures and standards and review criteria for the adjustment
of fees as established herein. All requests shall be judged based on category
and classifications as herein defined. No credit shall be given for the
installation of facilities required by city or county development codes or
state stormwater rules. The following procedures shall apply to all adjustment
requests of the stormwater utility user fee:
      (1)   Any owner who has paid his or her stormwater utility user fees and
who believes the ERU component of his or her stormwater utility user fee to be
incorrect may, subject to the limitations outlined in this chapter, submit an
adjustment request to the authorized official.
      (2)   Request for adjustment of stormwater utility user fees paid by the
owner making the request shall be in writing and set forth, in detail, the
grounds upon which relief is sought.
      (3)   Adjustment requests made during the first calendar year that the
stormwater utility user fee is imposed will be reviewed by the authorized
official within four months from the filing date of the adjustment request.
Adjustments resulting from such requests shall be retroactive to the beginning
of billings but shall not exceed one year.
      (4)   The owner requesting the adjustment may, at his or her own cost,
provide supplemental information to the authorized official including, but not
limited to facts, opinions, or professional services to substantiate his or her
case.
      (5)   Adjustments to the stormwater utility user fee will be made by the
utility billing personnel upon the granting of the adjustment request in
writing, by the authorized official. Denials of adjustment requests shall be
made in writing by the authorized official.
   (F)   Upon receipt of the written denial of the adjustment request, the
owner who initially requested the adjustment may, within 30 days of receipt of
such denial, appeal to the Board for review of the denial. The Board shall
complete its review within 60 days of receipt of said request for appeal. The
Board's determination on the appeal shall be in writing and outlined in detail
the reason for its decision. In evaluating the appeal, the Board shall be bound
by the standards and review criteria contained herein. All determinations of
the Board arising out of this section shall be final.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.105 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized official to administer the
stormwater utility program. The utility billing personnel shall keep an
accurate record of all persons using the services and facilities of the city's
stormwater utility and make changes per the rates and charges established in
this chapter or by ordinance.
   (B)   The authorized official shall direct any new development or the
property owner of the newly annexed property to establish a stormwater utility
user account.
   (C)   The Board may issue an order to any person to immediately cease any
discharge, or connection to the stormwater system, determined by the Board to
violate any provision of this chapter, or in violation of any regulation or
approval issued hereunder.
   (D)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any regulation
or order issued hereunder, shall be subject to injunctive relief if necessary,
to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (E)   A person shall be deemed guilty of a separate violation for every day
during any continuing violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any
regulation or approval issued hereunder.
   (F)   The Board may take all actions necessary, including the issuance of
notices of violation, the filing of court actions to require and enforce
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with any regulation or
approval issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.106 STORMWATER UTILITY ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There shall be established a stormwater utility account for the
deposit of all fees and charges collected by the stormwater utility.
   (B)   These funds shall be for the exclusive use of the city's stormwater
utility including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Stormwater management services, such as studies, design, approval
review, plan preparation, and development review.
      (2)   Operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of the stormwater
collection, storage, conveyance, or treatment infrastructure.
      (3)   Project costs related to constructing major or minor structural
improvements to the city's stormwater-related infrastructure.
      (4)   Administrative costs associated with the management of the
stormwater utility user fee.
      (5)   Debt service financing of the city's stormwater-related capital
improvements.
      (6)   Funding of studies such as water quantity and quality monitoring,
aerial photography, and geotechnical work associated with the planning of the
stormwater-related infrastructure.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS; ILLICIT DISCHARGES
§ 54.200 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all discharges, including illegal dumping,
entering the stormwater drainage system regulated by the city, regardless of
whether the discharge originates from developed or undeveloped lands, and
regardless of whether the discharge is generated from an active construction
site or a stabilized site. These discharges include flows from direct
connections to the stormwater drainage system, illegal dumping, and
contaminated runoff.
   (B)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and coal
mining activities are exempt from the requirements of this section unless
determined to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or more
than standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the USEPA, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with
all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that IDEM issues written acceptance for the subject
discharge to the stormwater drainage system is also exempt from this section.
   (D)   Notwithstanding other requirements in this chapter, the following
categories of non- stormwater discharges or flows are exempt from the
requirements of this section:
      (1)   Water line and hydrant flushing;
      (2)   Irrigation water;
      (3)   External building washdown, without detergents;
      (4)   Uncontaminated groundwater;
      (5)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration per 40 CFR 35.2005(20);
      (6)   Storm sewer cleaning water (uncontaminated);
      (7)   Footing, foundation, and crawl space drains (uncontaminated);
      (8)   Uncontaminated condensate from air conditioning units, coolers, and
other compressors, and outside storage of refrigerated gases or liquids;
      (9)   Springs;
      (10)   Individual residential car washing;
      (11)   Non-commercial car washing by community organizations;
      (12)   Dechlorinated/debrominated residential swimming pool discharges;
      (13)   Pavement wash waters provided spills or leaks of toxic or
hazardous materials have not occurred (unless all spill material has been
removed) and where detergents are not used; and
      (14)   Fire suppression activities.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.201 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to an MS4 conveyance, watercourse, or
waterbody, directly or indirectly, any substance other than stormwater or an
exempted discharge. Any person discharging stormwater shall effectively
minimize pollutants from also being discharged with the stormwater, through the
use of BMPs.
   (B)   The city is authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution
prevention measures, utilizing BMPs, necessary to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants into the city's stormwater drainage system.
   (C)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of illicit
connections to the MS4 is prohibited.
   (D)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   (E)   A person shall violate this subchapter if the person connects a line
conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection to continue.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.202 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
watercourse, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly
prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material on a property
must include adequate protection and/or containment to prevent any such
materials from entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance or
watercourse.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.203 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   The city is authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution
prevention measures, utilizing BMPs necessary to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants into the MS4, or waters of the United States.
      (1)   The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment
shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the MS4 or watercourses
by using structural and non-structural BMPs.
      (2)   Any person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may
be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said
person's expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the MS4.
   (B)   Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit
authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity, to
the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.204 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   (A)   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or
such person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse
located within their property boundaries, free of trash, debris, excessive
vegetation, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or
significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse.
   (B)   The owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures
within or adjacent to a watercourse so that such structures will not become a
hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.205 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any person who operates, controls, or maintains a facility, premises,
or property from which a spill occurs is responsible for notifying emergency
response agencies and taking all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. This section is in addition to the
procedures and requirements identified in the Indiana Spill Rule, 327 IAC 2-
6.1.
   (B)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a waterbody any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the Hancock County Health Department and Greenfield Fire Department
concerning the discharge.
   (C)   A written report concerning the discharge shall be filed with the city
and IDEM, by the person responsible for the discharges, within five days. The
written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause;
      (2)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence; and
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter.
   (D)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs, or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section and the Indiana Spill Rule (326 IAC 2-6.1).
This requirement does not relieve the discharger from notifying other entities
as required by other local, state, and federal regulations.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.206 ACCESS TO FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect the premises subject
to regulation under this subchapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this subchapter. If a person has security measures in force
that require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the person shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to
representatives of the city.
   (B)   Persons shall allow the city ready access to all parts of the premises
for inspection, sampling, examination, and copying of records that must be kept
under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to set up on the premises such devices
as are necessary in the opinion of the city to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the premises' stormwater discharge.
   (D)   The city may require the discharger to install monitoring equipment,
as necessary. The premises' sampling and monitoring equipment shall always be
maintained in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its
own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be
calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
premises to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the person
at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be replaced. The costs
of clearing such access shall be borne by the person.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to the premises are a
violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this subchapter. A person who
is the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater
associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the
city reasonable access to the permitted facility to conduct any activity
authorized or required by this subchapter.
   (G)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises from
which stormwater is discharged, and he or she can demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this subchapter, or that there is a
need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program designed to verify compliance with this subchapter or any order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the
community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.207 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system.
      (1)   The city has the authority to periodically inspect any portion of
the storm drainage system, whether publicly or privately owned, to detect and
eliminate illicit connections and discharges into the system.
      (2)   The inspection may include a screening of discharges from outfalls
connected to the system to determine if prohibited flows are being conveyed
into the storm drainage system. It could also include spot testing of waters
contained in the storm drainage system itself to detect the introduction of
pollutants into the system by means other than a defined outfall, such as
dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Potential polluters.
      (1)   If, as a result of the storm drainage system inspection, a
discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the city may inspect or obtain
stormwater samples from stormwater runoff facilities of the subject discharger
to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Upon request, the discharger shall allow the city's properly
identified representative to enter the premises of the discharger at all hours
necessary for such inspection or sampling. The properly identified city
representative may place on the discharger's property the equipment or devices
used for such sampling or inspection.
   (C)   New development and re-development. Following the completion of
construction and the receipt of as-built drawings, the city has the authority
to inspect new development and redevelopment sites to verify that all on-site
stormwater conveyances and connections to the storm drainage system are
compliant with this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.208 SUSPENSION OF DRAINAGE SYSTEM ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergencies.
      (1)   The city may, without prior notice, suspend stormwater drainage
system access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual
or threatened discharge, which presents or may present an imminent and
substantial danger to the environment, or the health or welfare of persons, or
to the stormwater drainage system or waters of the United States.
      (2)   If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in
an emergency, the city may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or
minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to minimize
danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the stormwater drainage system in
violation of this chapter may have their stormwater drainage system access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
city will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its stormwater
drainage system access. The violator may petition the city for a
reconsideration and hearing.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates stormwater
drainage system access to premises terminated according to this section,
without the prior approval of the city.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.209 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the city before allowing discharges to the stormwater drainage system.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.210 ILLICIT DISCHARGE ENFORCEMENT.
   Identified illicit connections or discharges shall be subject to enforcement
action as described in §§
54.700 et seq.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT AND FLOOD HAZARD
§ 54.300 STORMWATER QUANTITY APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The storage and controlled release rate of excess stormwater runoff as
well as loss of floodplain storage shall be required for all new business,
commercial and industrial developments, residential subdivisions, planned
development, rural estate subdivisions, and any redevelopment or other new
construction located within the city.
   (B)   The Drainage Board and/or City Engineer, after thorough investigation
and evaluation, may waive the requirement of controlled runoff for minor
subdivisions and parcelization.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.301 FLOOD AND STORMWATER QUANTITY GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Detention requirements.
      (1)   The storage and controlled release of excess stormwater runoff
shall be required for all developments and redevelopments located within the
city.
      (2)   Control devices shall limit the discharge to a rate such that the
post-developed release rate from the site is no greater than 0.1 cfs per acre
of development for zero to ten-year return interval storms and 0.3 cfs per acre
of developed area for 11 to 100 year return interval storms. These fixed
general release rates may be set at a lower value by the City Engineer for
geographical areas or certain watersheds if more detailed data becomes
available because of comprehensive watershed studies conducted and/or formally
approved and adopted by the City Council.
      (3)   The release rate for pre-developed areas that have more than one
outlet must be calculated based on the pre-developed drainage area tributary to
each outlet point. The calculated release rate at each outlet point shall not
be exceeded at the respective outlet point, even if the post-developed
conditions would involve a different arrangement of outlet points. Also, if an
outlet control structure includes an orifice to restrict the flow rate, such
orifice shall be no less than four inches in diameter, even if the four-inch
diameter orifice results in a discharge that exceeds the above-noted general
release rates.
      (4)   Post-developed release rate for sites with depressional storage
shall be the two-year pre-developed peak runoff rate for the post-developed
ten-year storm and the ten-year pre-developed peak runoff rate for the post-
developed 100-year storm. In no case shall the calculated site-specific release
rates be larger than the general release rates provided above for determining
the post-developed peak runoff rate, the depressional storage must be assumed
to be filled unless the city can be assured, through dedicated easement, that
the noted storage will be preserved in perpetuity.
   (B)   Floodplain requirements.
      (1)   The city's policy is no net loss of floodplain storage, but when
the avoidance of floodplain disturbance is not practical, the natural functions
of the floodplain must be preserved to the extent possible.
      (2)   To preserve the natural functions of floodplains to the extent
possible, compensatory excavation equivalent to the floodplain storage lost
shall be required for all activities within the floodplain of streams located
in the city where the drainage area of the stream is equal or larger than one
square mile. The city may alter the compensation ratio, based on extenuating
circumstances, for a specific project.
      (3)   Compensatory storage is required when a portion of the floodplain
is filled, occupied by a structure, or when as a result of a project a change
in the channel hydraulics occurs that reduces the existing available floodplain
storage. The compensatory storage must be located adjacent to or opposite the
placement of the fill and maintain an unimpeded connection to an adjoining
floodplain area.
      (4)   Computations must show the provision of compensatory floodplain
storage for ten-year, 50-year, and 100-year storm events. That is, the post-
development ten-year floodplain storage along a stream shall be equivalent to
the ten-year pre-development floodplain storage along the stream within the
property limits, the post-development 50-year floodplain storage along a stream
shall be equivalent to the 50-year pre-development floodplain storage along the
stream within the property limits, and the post-development 100-year floodplain
storage along a stream shall be equivalent to the 100-year pre- development
floodplain storage along the stream within the property limits.
      (5)   Calculations for floodplain volume shall be submitted in tabular
form showing calculations by cross-section. The volume of floodplain storage
under the without project conditions and the with-project conditions must be
determined using the average-end-area method with plotted cross-sections at a
horizontal-to-vertical ratio of between 5:1 and 10:1, with ten- through 100-
year flood elevations noted on each cross-section. The scale chosen must be
large enough to show the intent of the proposed grading. Cross-sections must
reflect both the existing and proposed conditions on the same plot. The
location and extent of the compensatory storage area as well as the location
and orientation of cross-sections must be shown on the grading plan.
      (6)   Floodplain and stormwater quantity management requirements in this
subchapter are in addition to the requirements identified in the City of
Greenfield's Unified Development Ordinance.
   (C)   Sensitive areas policy. This chapter intends to direct the community's
physical growth away from sensitive areas and towards areas that can support it
without compromising water quality. If a project site is located in an impact
drainage area, the city may require more stringent stormwater quantity measures
than those detailed in this chapter. Refer to the Standards for determining an
impact drainage area.
   (D)   Grading and building pad elevations.
      (1)   Maximum yard slopes are 3:1 where the soil has been disturbed
during construction processes. The finished floor elevation or the lowest
building entry elevation must be no less than six inches above the finished
grade around the building. The building's lowest entry elevation that is
adjacent to and facing a road should be a minimum of 15 inches above the road
elevation or top of the curb.
      (2)   All buildings shall have a minimum flood protection grade shown on
the secondary plat. The minimum flood protection grade of all structures
fronting a pond or open ditch shall be no less than two feet above any adjacent
100-year local or regional flood elevations, whichever is greater, for all
windows, doors, unsealed pipe entrances, window well rim elevations, and any
other structure member where floodwaters can enter a building.
      (3)   The lowest floor elevation of all residential, commercial, or
industrial structures, located within the SFHA, as shown on the FEMA maps,
shall be at the flood protection grade and therefore have two feet of freeboard
above-the 100-year flood elevation.
      (4)   The lowest adjacent grade for residential, commercial, or
industrial buildings outside a FEMA or IDNR-designated floodplain shall have
two feet of freeboard above the flooding source's 100-year flood elevation
under proposed conditions unless the flooding source is a rear-yard swale. When
the flooding source is a rear-yard swale, the lowest adjacent grade for
residential, commercial, or industrial buildings shall have two feet of
freeboard above the 100-year flood elevation under proposed conditions.
      (5)   The lowest adjacent grade to ponds for all residential, commercial,
or industrial buildings (including walkout basement floor elevation) shall be
set a minimum of two feet above the 100-year pond elevation or two feet above
the emergency overflow weir elevation of the pond spillway, whichever is
higher. In addition to the lowest adjacent grade requirements, any basement
floor adjacent to a detention pond must be at least one foot above the
permanent water level (normal pool elevation).
      (6)   The 100-year overflow paths throughout the development, whether
shown on FEMA maps or not, must be shown as hatched areas on the plans. A
minimum of 30 feet along the centerline of the flow path contained within
permanent drainage easements. A statement shall be added to the plat that would
refer the viewer to the construction plans to see the entire extent of the
overflow path as hatched areas. No fences or landscaping can be constructed
within the easement areas that may impede the free flow of stormwater. These
areas are to be maintained by the property owners or be designated as common
areas that are to be maintained by the homeowner's association. The lowest
adjacent grade for all residential, commercial, or industrial buildings shall
be set a minimum of one foot above the noted overflow path/ponding elevation,
calculated based on all contributing drainage areas, on-site and off-site, in
their proposed or reasonably anticipated land use and with storm pipe system
assumed completely plugged.
      (7)   It shall be the property owners' responsibility to maintain the
natural features and the natural flow of drainage on their lots and to take
preventive measures against all erosion and/or deterioration of natural or
manmade features on their lots.
   (E)   Acceptable outlet and adjoining property impact policies.
      (1)   The design and construction of the stormwater facility shall
provide for the discharge of the stormwater runoff from off-site land areas as
well as the stormwater from the area being developed (on-site land areas) to an
acceptable outlet(s) (as determined by the city) having the capacity to receive
upstream (off-site) and on-site drainage. The flow path from the development
outfall(s) to a regulated drain or natural watercourse (as determined by the
city) shall be provided on an exhibit that includes topographic information.
Any existing field tile encountered during the construction shall also be
incorporated into the proposed stormwater drainage system or tied to an
acceptable outlet. In addition, no activities conducted as part of the
development shall be allowed to obstruct the free flow of flood water from an
upstream property.
      (2)   Where the outfall from the stormwater drainage system of any
development flows through real estate owned by others before reaching a
regulated drain or watercourse, no acceptance shall be granted for such
drainage system until all owners of real estate and/or tenants impacted by the
outfall consent in writing to the use of their real estate through a recorded
easement.
      (3)   If an adequate outlet is not located on-site, then further
reduction in allowable release rates or off-site drainage improvements may be
required. Those improvements may include but are not limited to, extending
storm sewers, clearing, dredging, or removal of obstructions to open drains or
natural water courses, and the removal or replacement of undersized culvert
pipes as required by the city.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.302 FLOOD AND STORMWATER QUANTITY TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater facilities shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications outlined in the Standards.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.303 DRAINAGE EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be no trees or shrubs planted, nor any structures or
fences erected, in any drainage easement, unless otherwise allowed by the city.
   (B)   All new channels, ditches, drain tiles equal to or greater than 12
inches in diameter, inlet and outlet structures of detention and retention
ponds, and appurtenances thereto as required by this section, that are
installed in subdivisions requiring a Stormwater Management Approval from the
city shall be contained within a minimum of 20 feet of drainage easement (ten
feet from centerline on each side) and shown on the recorded plat. New drain
tiles refer to all sub-surface stormwater piping, tubing, tiles, manholes,
inlets, catch basins, risers, etc.
   (C)   A minimum of 25 feet from the top of the bank on each side of a new
channel shall be designated on the recorded plat as a drainage easement. If the
top of the bank is not vegetated according to the development's landscape plan,
a minimum 25-foot width filter strip shall be installed within the drainage
easement.
   (D)   Rear-yard swales shall be contained within a minimum of 20-feet width
(ten feet from the bottom flow line of the swale on each side) of the drainage
easement.
   (E)   Emergency overflow paths associated with detention ponds shall be
contained within a minimum of 30-feet width (15 feet from the centerline on
each side) of the drainage easement.
   (F)   A minimum of 20 feet beyond the actual footprint (top of the bank) of
stormwater detention facilities shall be designated as drainage easement. A
minimum of 20-foot width easement shall also be required as access easement
from a public right-of-way to the facility unless the pond is immediately next
to a public right-of-way.
   (G)   Drainage easements shall not be part of residential lots.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.304 PLACEMENT OF UTILITIES.
   No utility company may disturb existing storm management facilities without
the consent of the city. All existing drainage facilities shall have senior
rights and damage to said facilities shall result in penalties as prescribed in
§§
54.700 et seq.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.305 STRUCTURES NEAR COUNTY REGULATED DRAINS.
   For regulated drains not located in platted subdivisions, no permanent
structure (including fences) shall be erected within 75 feet measured at right
angles from a) the existing top edge of each bank of a regulated open drain, as
determined by Hancock County; or b) the center line of a tiled Regulated Drain,
unless otherwise accepted by Hancock County. The Indiana Drainage Code may be
consulted for further details.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.306 REVIEW PROCESS AND APPROVAL.
   Design plans, technical information, and calculations shall be submitted per
the application process in §§
54.600 et seq.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.307 OWNER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   An operation and maintenance manual (O&M Manual) for the stormwater
quantity and/or flood control measures(s) shall be prepared and submitted for
approval per §
54.600 of this chapter and must include the information in the Standards.
   (B)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds, unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body,
and determined before the final Stormwater Management Approval. Stormwater
detention/retention basins may be donated to the city or other unit of
government designated by the Stormwater Board and/or the city, for ownership
and permanent maintenance provided the Stormwater Board and/or the city or
other governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.308 OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The project site owner shall:
   (A)   Ensure proper construction and installation of all stormwater quantity
measures in compliance with this chapter, the Stormwater Management Approval,
the Standards, and CSGP.
   (B)   Following construction completion, operate, maintain, and inspect the
stormwater quantity measure(s) for the entirety of the property owner's
ownership.
      (1)   Maintain the stormwater quantity measure(s) in good condition, per
the terms and conditions of the Stormwater Management Approval, O&M Manual, and
CSGP, and do not subsequently alter, revise, or replace the measure(s) except
after city review and approval.
      (2)   Complete inspections to evaluate physical conditions, available
storage capacity, and the operational condition of the stormwater quantity
measure(s) per the O&M Manual.
      (3)   Inspections will be completed at least once per year and shall
follow the O&M Manual provided or the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual.
Inspection requirements of the O&M Manual shall not be altered without approval
from the city.
   (C)   Maintain inspection reports and documentation records for five years
and produce upon request by city personnel within 48 hours of the request.
   (D)   Provide access to city representatives for inspections.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 54.400 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   All property owners or developers shall implement the requirements of
this section for construction activities within the city resulting in land
disturbance of one acre or more.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with
all applicable city ordinances, as well as, with all applicable federal, state,
and other local statutes and regulations shall also be required. Unless
otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in this chapter shall be
the most recent edition available.
      (2)   City government public works projects shall be subject to the
requirements of this section. However, the city is exempt from paying any
applicable permit and review fees.
      (3)   If the project site is located within a Hancock County Regulated
Drain Watershed, the applicant will need to communicate with the Hancock County
Surveyor's Office to learn if additional requirements specific to that
regulated drain would apply to the site.
      (4)   Land disturbances on industrial and commercial project sites are a
minimum of one acre of disturbance regardless of size. This includes gas
stations.
      (5)   Calculation of land disturbance must follow the guidelines
discussed in the Standards.
   (B)   Individual lot owners or operators shall follow the requirements in §§
54.600 and
54.601 for Individual Construction SWPPPs and for Individual Lot Owner or
Operator Responsibilities. This includes:
      (1)   Individual lot owners or operators where the land disturbance is
less than or greater than one acre and the lot lies within a larger common plan
for development or sale.
      (2)   Single-family residences and ponds that are not part of a larger
common plan of development for sale with land disturbance of less than one
acre.
      (3)   Strip developments or multi-lot projects that are not part of a
larger common plan of development for sale with land disturbance of less than
one acre.
      (4)   Land disturbance for industrial and commercial project sites shall
be considered a minimum of one acre for all lots regardless of actual size of
land disturbance. Commercial projects include public or private fueling areas.
      (5)   Section
54.501(B)(2) applies to any new retail gasoline outlets and new MS4-owned
fueling areas or those that replace their existing fuel tank systems,
regardless of the amount of disturbed area.
   (C)   Discharges authorized by this section. This section authorizes the
following discharges to the waters of the state:
      (1)   Stormwater, including stormwater run-off, snowmelt run-off, and
surface run-off and drainage, associated with construction activity (40 CFR §
122.26(b)(14) or § 122.26(b)(15)(i)).
      (2)   Stormwater discharges designated by IDEM as needing to obtain
coverage under the CSGP (40 CFR § 122.26(a)(1)(v) or § 122.26(b)(15)(ii)).
      (3)   Stormwater discharges from construction support activities (e.g.,
concrete or asphalt batch plants, equipment staging yards, material storage
areas, excavated material disposal areas, borrow areas) provided the support
activity is directly related to the construction site required to have coverage
for stormwater discharges, and:
         (a)   The support activity is not a commercial/industrial operation,
nor does it serve multiple unrelated construction projects.
         (b)   The support activity does not continue to operate beyond the
completion of the construction activity for the project it supports.
      (4)   Non-stormwater discharges or flows provided they are not identified
by IDEM as significant sources of pollutants to waters of the state, including,
but not limited to:
         (a)   Emergency fire-fighting water.
         (b)   Fire hydrant flushing water.
         (c)   Landscape irrigation water.
         (d)   Water line flushing.
         (e)   Routine external building washdown water that does not use
detergents.
         (f)   Water used to wash vehicles and equipment that does not contain
soaps, solvents, or detergents.
         (g)   Uncontaminated, non-turbid discharges of groundwater or spring
water.
         (h)   Foundation or crawl space footing drainages where flows are not
contaminated with process materials such as solvents or contaminated
groundwater.
         (i)   Uncontaminated condensate from air conditioning units, coolers,
and other compressors and from outside refrigerated gases or liquids.
         (j)   Construction dewatering water that has been treated by an
appropriate stormwater quality measure or series of measures provided other
contaminants are not present.
      (5)   Discharges not authorized by this section. The following discharges
from construction activities are not authorized by this section:
         (a)   Direct discharges into waters that are designated as an
Outstanding National Resource Water defined at I.C. 13-11-2-149.5 or an
Outstanding State Resource Water defined at I.C. 13-11-2-149.6 and listed at
327 IAC 2-l.3-3(d) when the commissioner determines that a discharge from the
land-disturbing activity will significantly lower water quality as defined
under 327 IAC 2-1.3-2(50) of such water downstream of that discharge.
         (b)   Direct discharges to a receiving stream when the discharge
results in an increase in the ambient concentration of a pollutant which
contributes to the impairment of the receiving stream for that pollutant as
identified on the current 303(d) list of impaired waters.
         (c)   Discharges of concrete or mortar wash water from concrete
washout activities or release from containment systems.
         (d)   Wastewater from washout and cleanout of stucco, paint, form-
release oils, curing compounds, and other construction materials.
         (e)   Soaps, detergents, or solvents used in vehicle and equipment
washing.
         (f)   Other discharges, including but not limited to fuel, oil, or
other pollutants used in vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance.
   (D)   Stormwater quality measures exemptions. Additional exemptions for the
installation and operation of stormwater quality measures under this section
include:
      (1)   Land-disturbing activities where there will be no additional
impervious surfaces associated with the final completed project, including but
not limited to, ditch construction/reconstruction and utility installation/
maintenance activities. This does not include industrial or commercial project
sites.
      (2)   Single-family residential strip development offered for sale or
lease without land improvements and the project is not part of a larger common
plan of development or sale.
      (3)   Individual residential building lots within a permitted larger
common plan of development of sale.
      (4)   Residential developments consisting of four or fewer lots
developments where the proposed impervious surfaces are 10% or less of the
project acreage. Impervious is determined by the sum of all infrastructure
(roads, paths, parking, etc.) and the average project's hard surfaces
associated with all building lots within the project.
   (E)   Waivers and special conditions.
      (1)   Discharges are conditionally authorized for land-disturbing
activities that are subject to this section but are considered an emergency.
Emergency activities include any work that requires immediate implementation to
avoid imminent endangerment to human health, public safety, or the environment,
or to re-establish essential public services.
      (2)   Procedures for obtaining an emergency condition authorization,
require the applicant to:
         (a)   Submit a preliminary notification of the emergency to IDEM and
the city within 24 hours or the next business day of initiating land
disturbance.
         (b)   Develop a SWPPP that specifically addresses the operations
associated with the emergency and submit it to the city.
         (c)   Submit a complete NOI within 30 calendar days after commencing
land-disturbing activities to IDEM and the city establishing eligibility under
the CSGP.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.401 STORMWATER QUALITY CONTROL GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The project site owners shall meet the following minimum requirements:
   (A)   Stormwater quality will be based on the management of total suspended
solids (TSS). The city requires a minimum of 80% removal of TSS including
floatables without resuspension. TSS is defined as particles smaller than 125
microns in diameter.
   (B)   New retail gasoline outlets and refueling areas, existing facilities
that replace their existing tank systems (regardless of the total area of
disturbance), and any facility that is contributing to water quality
degradation through tank leakage, sheet drainage, or any other conveyance that
introduces a pollutant to surface or ground waters are required to install
appropriate measures to reduce lead, copper, zinc, and polyaromatic
hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff.
   (C)   Infiltration practices will not be allowed in wellhead protection
areas as the primary water quality treatment measure unless the measure is
designed to treat the pollutant(s) of concern that originate in the drainage
area of the measure.
   (D)   Discharges from new development and redevelopment sites will not be
allowed directly into karst features without pre-treatment.
   (E)   Outfalls must be designed to reduce outfall scouring and bank erosion.
   (F)   Sensitive areas policy. This subchapter intends to direct the
community's physical growth away from sensitive areas and towards areas that
can support it without compromising water quality. If a project site is
determined to impact or discharge to a sensitive area, the city may require
more stringent stormwater quality measures than those detailed in this chapter,
the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual, or the Standards.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.402 STORMWATER QUALITY CONTROL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater quality measures, or BMPs shall meet the design criteria,
standards, and specifications outlined in the latest editions of the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual and the Standards.
   (B)   A pre-approved list of BMP(s) is specified in the Standards. The noted
BMPs must be designed, constructed, and maintained according to guidelines
provided or referenced in the Standards. Practices other than those specified
in the pre-approved list may be utilized; however, the applicant shall prove
that the performance (minimum 80% TSS removal including floatables) and ease of
maintenance of such practices will be according to guidelines provided in the
Standards. Details regarding the procedures and criteria for consideration of
acceptance of such BMPs are provided in the Standards.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.403 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All stormwater quality measures, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters, infiltration systems,
conveyance systems, structures, and appurtenances located outside of the right-
of-way shall be designated as common areas or incorporated into permanent
drainage easements.
   (B)   A 30-foot wide access easement from the public right-of-way shall be
provided for each management system.
   (C)   An adequate easement, as detailed in the Standards, beyond the actual
footprint of the stormwater quality measures must also be provided for
monitoring, inspection, and general maintenance activities.
   (D)   Easements for stormwater quality measures shall not be part of
residential lots.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.404 OWNER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   An O&M Manual for the stormwater quality control measure(s) shall be
prepared and submitted for approval per §
54.600 of this chapter and must include the information in the Standards.
   (B)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds unless the responsibility is formally accepted by a public body,
and determined before the final Stormwater Management Approval. Stormwater
detention/retention basins may be donated to the city or other unit of
government designated by the Stormwater Board and/or the city, for ownership
and permanent maintenance provided the Stormwater Board and/or the city or
other governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.405 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All permittees shall manage stormwater discharges as necessary to meet
the narrative water quality criteria (327 IAC 2-1-6(a)(1)(A-D) and 327 IAC 2-
1.5-8(a) and (b)(1)(A-D) for any discharge authorized by this subchapter and
CSGP, with compliance required upon beginning such a discharge. Using
stormwater management measures and planning principles is expected to achieve
the control necessary to meet water quality criteria for stormwater discharges.
   (B)   Each project site shall develop a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
(SWPPP) that serves as a guideline for stormwater management, but should not be
interpreted to be the only basis for the implementation of stormwater measures
for a project site. The permittee is responsible for implementing all measures
necessary to comply with the provisions of this subchapter and the CSGP.
   (C)   All stormwater management measures, including erosion and sediment
control measures and post-construction measures, shall be implemented per this
subchapter, CSGP, and the Standards. The applicable land-disturbing principles,
construction plan contents, and SWPPP submittal requirements are detailed in
the Standards.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.406 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The calculation methods and the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet the
design criteria, Standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SUBMITTALS AND APPROVAL
§ 54.500 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No Stormwater Management Approval shall be issued and no land
disturbance started for any construction in a development until the
construction plans required by this subchapter have been accepted in writing by
the city.
   (B)   This subchapter applies to all development or re-development of land
that is subject to this subchapter. All developers and property owners
proposing development or re-development that require city approval shall follow
the requirements in this subchapter.
   (C)   Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of the
informational requirements listed below.
      (1)   Individual lots with a land disturbance greater than 10,000 square
feet and less than one acre are subject to §§
54.600 and
54.601 for plan review requirements and procedures.
      (2)   If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements of
this subchapter, an application must be filed listing the exemption criteria
met, instead of the information requirements listed below. This level of
detailed information is not required from individual lots that disturb or
impact less than one acre of land that are developed within a larger permitted
project site.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.501 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All Stormwater Management Applications shall follow the requirements
and procedures in this subchapter and the Standards to obtain Stormwater
Management Approval from the city.
   (B)   The Stormwater Management Application shall contain the following
information and forms detailed in the Standards:
      (1)   Construction/Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan Technical Review
and Comment form.
      (2)   Professionally certified design plans with erosion and sediment
control measures identified and details following the Standards and the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual.
      (3)   Stormwater Drainage Technical Report.
      (4)   Hydrologic/Hydraulic Analysis.
      (5)   Construction Site SWPPP.
      (6)   Post-Construction SWPPP.
      (7)   Operation and Maintenance Manual(s).
      (8)   Stormwater Management BMPs Maintenance Agreement.
      (9)   Financial Responsibility Form.
      (10)   A draft of IDEM's Notice oflntent with proof of public notice.
      (11)   Plan review and inspection fees.
   (C)   Applications may be submitted in person by providing hard copies of
the items listed in the checklist or through the online permitting portal.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.502 PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The city will review the complete application to determine its
conformance with the provisions of this subchapter, Standards, and the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual. The city will follow the procedures outlined in the
Standards. Upon review, the city shall, in writing:
      (1)   Approve the application and associated documentation and provide a
Construction/Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan Technical Review form deeming
the "Plan is Adequate."
      (2)   Approve the application and associated documentation subject to
such reasonable conditions as may be necessary to secure the objectives of this
chapter and provide a Construction/Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
Technical Review form deeming the "Plan is Adequate."
      (3)   Provide a Construction/Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
Technical Review form stating that the "Plan is Deficient" and indicate the
reason(s) and procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   (B)   Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications
after issuance of the Stormwater Management Approval shall be filed with, and
accepted by, the city before land development involving the change. Copies of
the changes, if accepted, shall be attached to the original plans and
specifications.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.503 STORMWATER PLAN REVIEW FEES.
   (A)   As a condition of the submittal and the review of development and
stormwater management plans by the city, the applicant shall pay the city the
applicable fee, as set by the City Board of Public Works and Safety, for the
review of all drainage submittals, preliminary plans, final plans, construction
plans, and accompanying information and data, as well as any applicable pre-
paid inspection fees.
   (B)   As a condition of acceptance of final drainage plans by the city, the
applicant shall pay to the city the sum outlined in a written statement
provided by the city. The city may issue such a billing statement before the
project advances to the final acceptance stage, and such payment is due by the
applicant upon receipt of said billing statement regardless of whether the
project is advanced to the final acceptance stage.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.504 REQUIRED PERFORMANCE AND ASSURANCES.
   As a condition of the Stormwater Management Approval, the city shall require
the applicant to provide assurance in the form of an irrevocable letter of
credit, a performance bond, or such other instrument or method of security
acceptable in writing by the city when the Stormwater Management Application
has been accepted, all applicable fees paid, and before construction begins.
   (A)   Said assurance will guarantee a good faith execution of all plans
submitted in the application and any approved conditions.
   (B)   The assurance shall be for an amount equal to at least 110% of the
total costs of all stormwater management measures for the entire project. The
above-mentioned costs shall be based on an estimate as prepared by a
professional engineer or land surveyor registered in the State of Indiana. Said
costs shall be for the installation and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of
erosion control measures and the construction and ongoing monitoring and
maintenance of storm drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities,
and stormwater quality measures, as regulated under this chapter until the
construction is completed, the site is stabilized, and as-built plans are
accepted by the city. Assurances shall be for a minimum of $5,000.
   (C)   The intent of this assurance is not only to complete the installation
of storm drain infrastructure for the project but also to ensure that adequate
stormwater pollution prevention measures are properly installed and maintained.
If adequate assurances are set aside by the project site owner for the overall
project, proof of total assurance can be submitted in place of an individual
stormwater assurance.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.505 CONSTRUCTION SITE OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES AFTER APPROVAL.
   (A)   The city may impose such terms and conditions as are reasonably
necessary to meet the purposes of this chapter. The project site owner is
responsible for compliance with this chapter, the CSGP, and the implementation
of the Stormwater Management Approval. Noncompliance will be subject to
enforcement as described in §§
54.700 et seq.
   (B)   After receiving Stormwater Management Approval, the project site
owner, operator, or agent shall meet the responsibilities of this section.
      (1)   Submit the Technical Review form and the final NOI with proof of
public notice for the CSGP to IDEM, at least 48 hours before any land
disturbance or discharges occur.
      (2)   Submit the Notice of Sufficiency from IDEM along with a final NOI
to the County Engineer, or designee, at least 48 hours before any land
disturbance or discharges occur.
      (3)   Receive approval for other building permits, drainage approvals, or
city permits as required.
      (4)   Participate in the pre-construction meeting with the city and other
entities involved before any grading activity to ensure that appropriate
perimeter control measures have been implemented on the site and that the
location of any existing tiles has been properly marked.
      (5)   Inform all general contractors, construction management firms,
grading or excavating contractors, utility contractors, and contractors that
have primary oversight on individual building lots of the terms and conditions
of the Stormwater Management Approval and the schedule for proposed
implementation.
      (6)   Provide the city training documentation of the personnel associated
with the project concerning the requirements of the SWPPP per the CSGP.
      (7)   Install and stabilize all erosion and sediment control devices
before any clearing, except what is necessary to establish the devices.
      (8)   Ensure all stormwater quality measures are designed and installed
under the guidance of a trained individual.
      (9)   Ensure proper construction and installation of all stormwater
measures in compliance with this chapter, the Stormwater Management Approval,
and CSGP.
      (10)   Maintain a self-monitoring program and inspections per the
Standards. Requirements for a self-monitoring program and other activities for
active construction sites are included in the Stormwater Management Approval
Terms and Conditions section of the Standards.
      (11)   Develop and maintain a project management log and other
documentation and recordkeeping identified in the Standards at the project site
for review by the city per the CSGP.
      (12)   Meet all performance standards and implementation requirements of
the Standards and CSGP.
   (C)   Project completion and termination.
      (1)   Plan an orderly and timely termination of construction activities,
including the implementation of stormwater quality measures that are to remain
on the project site.
      (2)   Provide as-built plans to the city per the requirements in the
Standards.
      (3)   Provide required maintenance assurances as described in the
Standards.
      (4)   Notify the city, or designee, of final stabilization so the city
may verify the Notice of Termination (NOT) by completing a final site
inspection before the project site owner or operator submits the NOT to IDEM.
         (a)   Final stabilization of a project site is achieved when all land
disturbing activities have been completed, temporary BMPs have been removed,
permanent BMPs have been cleaned, and a uniform perennial vegetative cover with
a density of 70% has been established on all unpaved areas and areas not
covered by a permanent structure, or equivalent permanent stabilization
measures have been employed.
         (b)   Final stabilization for construction projects on land used for
agricultural purposes is achieved when:
            1.   Stabilization is completed per division (C)(4)(a) above as
land disturbance progresses;
            2.   Land returned to its preconstruction agricultural use is
temporarily or permanently seeded upon completing land disturbance activities;
and
            3.   Disturbed areas, not previously used for agricultural
production, such as filter strips, are being returned to their preconstruction
agricultural use.
   (D)   After a verified NOT has been submitted for a project site, city
approval and CSGP coverage are terminated and maintenance of the remaining
stormwater management measures shall be the responsibility of the property
owner or occupier of the property.
   (E)   The CSGP expires five years from the date of issuance. If construction
is not completed before the expiration date, the project owner shall either
submit a NOT to IDEM and the city or follow the NOI submittal requirements in
the CSGP within 90 days with submittals to IDEM and the city.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.506 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   Property owners are responsible for the long-term operation and maintenance
of the stormwater management facilities on the property, including:
   (A)   Maintain the stormwater BMPs in good condition per the designed and
approved specifications and O&M Manual. Any maintenance needs found must be
addressed promptly by the owner.
   (B)   The owner shall keep an updated logbook or inspection worksheets
documenting the performance of the required operation and maintenance
activities for perpetuity. Note inspection dates, facility components
inspected, facility condition, and any maintenance performed or repairs made.
   (C)   All stormwater management BMPs must undergo, at the minimum, an annual
inspection by the owner to document maintenance and repair needs and ensure
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the accomplishment of its
purposes. Inspections may include but are not limited to reviewing maintenance
and repair records; sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and
material or water in BMPs; and evaluating the condition of stormwater BMPs.
   (D)   Obtain approval from the city for alterations, revisions, or
replacements of all post- construction BMPs.
   (E)   Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of stormwater
BMPs shall maintain records of the installation, maintenance, and repairs, and
retain the records for at least five years. These records shall be made
available to the city within 48 hours of the request.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.507 CITY INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After issuance of the Stormwater Management Approval, the city has the
authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to ensure full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Standards, and the terms
and conditions of the Stormwater Management Approval.
   (B)   The city has the authority to perform long-term, post-construction
inspections of all public or privately owned stormwater management facilities
and BMPs. The inspection may cover physical conditions, available water quality
storage capacity, and the operational condition of key facility elements. Noted
deficiencies and recommended corrective action will be included in an
inspection report.
   (C)   If deficiencies are found during the inspection, the owner of the
facility will be notified by the city and will be required to take all
necessary measures to correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails to correct
the deficiencies within the allowed period, as specified in the notification
letter, the city will undertake the work and collect from the owner using lien
rights if necessary.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
INDIVIDUAL LOTS/PLOT PLANS
§ 54.600 APPROVAL PROCEDURES FOR INDIVIDUAL LOTS.
   (A)   All stormwater management measures for individual lots within a larger
permitted project must, at a minimum, be implemented per the permitted plan for
the larger project.
   (B)   Individual lot owners shall submit the information in the Standards to
the city for approval before any construction activities commence.
   (C)   The individual lot operator is responsible for the installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
   (D)   The individual lot operator is responsible for implementing erosion
and sediment control measures identified in the submittal and the other
requirements identified in the Standards.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.601 CHANGES TO PLANS.
   Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications after
issuance of the Stormwater Management Approval shall be filed with, and
accepted by, the city prior to land development involving the change. Copies of
the changes, if accepted, shall be attached to the original plans and
specifications.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 54.700 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with all
applicable ordinances of the city as well as with applicable federal, state,
and other local statutes and regulations shall also be required. Unless
otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in this chapter shall be
the most recent edition available. Violations of the requirements of this
chapter are subject to the enforcement actions and penalties listed in this
section.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.701 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be subject to enforcement actions within
the city code, the severity of the violation, and the owner's or operator's
efforts to comply. The city shall reserve the right to interpret enforcement on
a case-by-case basis. Tiered enforcement will be practiced at the discretion of
the city designee. The tiered enforcement may include:
   (A)   Verbal warning to the owner or operator to make corrections of
identified deficiencies.
   (B)   Written warning to the owner or operator to make corrections within a
specified time, but not less than 72 hours. The specified time shall consider
issues such as the severity of the problem, pending weather, seasonal
conditions, and the level of effort necessary to correct the problem.
   (C)   Written warning of non-compliance with directions to the owner or
operator that site deficiencies require corrective action within 72 hours.
   (D)   Stop work order.
      (1)   If deficiencies in a written warning of non-compliance are not
resolved 72 hours after receipt of the written notification, the city may issue
a stop work order or may revoke the owner's stormwater approval, in which event
all construction work shall cease until and unless the city determines that
compliance has been obtained.
      (2)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order
may be fined for each offense, plus costs, damages, and expenses. Each day such
violation occurs or continues, shall be deemed a separate offense, and shall
make the violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each day. The city
may assess a stormwater approval reinstatement fee.
      (3)   The city may issue a stop-work order and may suspend or revoke
stormwater approval if any of the work is being conducted in such a manner as
to materially adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of persons
residing or working in the neighborhood or development site to be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in
the neighborhood.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.702 MAINTENANCE NONCOMPLIANCE AFTER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of written notice of a maintenance violation of a post-
construction BMP, the party responsible for maintenance of a post-construction
BMP shall have 30 calendar days to correct the deficiency. If the deficiency is
not corrected within this period, a fine of not less than $25 and not more than
$500 per deficiency shall be assessed to the property owner, and each day such
violation exists shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   If the deficiency is not correct after 60 calendar days from the
notice of maintenance violation, the city may correct a violation by performing
all necessary work to place the post-construction BMP in proper working
condition. The city may assess the owner(s) of the post-construction BMP for
the cost of repair work and any penalties and the cost of the work shall be a
lien on the property, or prorated against the beneficial users of the property,
and may be placed on the tax bill and collected as ordinary taxes by the
county.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.703 FAILURE TO COMPLY OR COMPLETE.
   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 for a first
violation of the chapter and $7,500 for a second or subsequent violation of the
chapter, and such person shall also pay such costs as may be imposed at the
discretion of the court. A reinstatement fee may be assessed by the city.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.704 SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO THE STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.
   (A)   Suspension due to emergencies. The city may, without prior notice,
suspend stormwater drainage system discharge access to a person when such
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge that presents
or may present an imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the
health or welfare of persons, or to the stormwater drainage system or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the city may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the stormwater drainage system or waters of the
United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the stormwater drainage system in violation of this chapter may
have their stormwater drainage system access terminated if such termination
would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The city will notify a violator of
the proposed termination of its stormwater drainage system access. The violator
may petition the City Board of Public Works and Safety for a reconsideration
and hearing.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.705 CORRECTIVE ACTION BY THE CITY.
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking lawful
action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All costs
connected to the action shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
Costs include but are not limited to, repairs to the stormwater drainage system
made necessary by the violation, as well as those penalties levied by the USEPA
or IDEM for violation of the city NPDES permit, attorney fees, and other costs
and expenses.
   (B)   The city may undertake or cause to be undertaken, any necessary or
advisable protective measures to prevent violations of this chapter, the CSGP,
or to avoid or reduce the effects of noncompliance. The cost of any such
protective measures shall be the responsibility of the project site owner and
the responsibility of any person carrying out or participating in the work. The
project site owner is required to promptly reimburse the city for all costs of
such work.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.706 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person to whom any provision of this chapter has been applied may
appeal in writing, not later than 30 days after the action or decision being
appealed from, to the City Board of Public Works and Safety the action or
decision whereby any such provision was so applied. Such appeal shall identify
the matter being appealed, and the basis for the appeal.
   (B)   The City Board of Public Works and Safety shall consider the appeal
and decide to affirm, reject, or modify the action being appealed. In
considering any such appeal, the City Board of Public Works and Safety may
consider the recommendations of the City Engineer and the comments of other
persons having knowledge of the matter. In considering any such appeal, the
City Board of Public Works and Safety may grant a variance from the terms of
this chapter to provide relief, in whole or in part, from the action being
appealed, but only upon finding that the following requirements are satisfied.
   (C)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will present
or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses to comply with the
chapter.
   (D)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.707 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and it is within
the discretion of the city to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a maximum fine of $2,500
for a first offense, and a maximum of $7,500 for a subsequent offense, plus
costs, damages, expenses, and fines levied by regulatory agencies. Each day
such violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall
make the violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each day. The rights
and remedies provided for in this section are cumulative and in addition to any
other remedies provided by law. An admission or determination of responsibility
shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, subsequent offense means a violation of
the provisions of this subchapter committed by the same person within 12 months
of a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for which said
person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
(Ord. 2024-39, passed 12-11-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   BICYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Scope
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Offenses; misdemeanors
   
70.04   Committing, aiding, abetting a crime
   
70.05   Requiring or permitting unlawful operation of vehicle
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Defacement of devices
   
70.21   When traffic-control devices required for enforcement
Traffic Division
   
70.35   Traffic Division established
   
70.36   Duty of Traffic Division
   
70.37   Record of traffic violations
   
70.38   Traffic Division to investigate accidents
   
70.39   Traffic accident studies
   
70.40   Maintenance of traffic accident reports
   
70.41   Drivers, files to be maintained
   
70.42   Annual traffic safety report
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   This title shall be known, cited as, and hereinafter referred to as
the “Traffic Code of Greenfield” or “traffic code”.
   (B)   The provisions of the traffic code are intended to apply to all
traffic and to all operators not specifically excepted.
   (C)   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal or animals or push
carts on a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of the traffic code
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions of the traffic
code which, by their nature, can have no application.
   (D)   All provisions relative to the operation, parking, or movement of
vehicles or animals, and to the movement of pedestrians, apply on all the
public ways of the municipality, except as specifically limited.
   (E)   The provisions of the traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned by or used in the service of the United States Government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate
any of the provisions of the traffic code.
   (F)   The provisions of the traffic code shall in no way limit, alter, or
otherwise affect the civil or criminal responsibility of any person under the
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 40.01)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property and not over 20 feet in width.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
      (1)   The following vehicles:
         (a)   Fire department vehicles;
         (b)   Police department vehicles;
         (c)   Ambulances; and
         (d)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8.
      (2)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1.
      (3)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies, or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue service (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (4)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
(I.C. 9-13-2-14)
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   BUS. A motor vehicle that is:
      (1)   Designed for carrying more than ten passengers exclusive of the
driver; and
      (2)   Used to transport passengers.
(I.C. 9-13-2-17)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
at least 50% of the frontage of the territory for a distance of at least 500
feet is occupied by buildings in use for business.
(I.C. 9-13-2-18)
   CIRCULATORY ROADWAY. The portion of a highway within a roundabout that is
used by vehicles to travel counterclockwise around a central island. A
CIRCULATORY ROADWAY does not have a crosswalk.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles of this
state.
(I.C. 9-13-2-33)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access, except at such points only and in such manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such highway,
street, or roadway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   A part of a roadway, distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing
by lines or other markings on the surface.
(I.C. 9-13-2-40)
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing two non-tandem
wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and that has the
following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) above, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   ENGINE BRAKES. Commonly referred to as either engine brakes, compression
brakes, Jake brakes and/or Jacob brakes, as a means of braking used primarily
on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an internal combustion engine
to an air compressor for the purpose of braking a vehicle without the use of
wheel brakes.
   EXPLOSIVES. A chemical compound or mechanical mixture that:
      (1)   Is commonly used or intended for the purpose of producing an
explosion; or
      (2)   Contains any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in
such proportions, quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, friction,
concussion, percussion, or detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may
cause such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant
gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous
objects or of destroying life or limb.
(I.C. 9-13-2-52)
   FARM TRACTOR. A motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing implements of agriculture used on a farm and, when using
the highways, in traveling from one field or farm to another or to or from
places of repairs. The term includes a wagon, trailer, or other vehicle pulled
by a FARM TRACTOR.
(I.C. 9-13-2-56)
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. A liquid that has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue thermometer or equivalent closed cup test device.
(I.C. 9-13-2-65)
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load, plus the weight of any
load on the vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-71)
   INDIVIDUAL PARKING SPACE. A portion of the paved surface of the street of
sufficient length and depth from the sidewalk, curb, or edge of the roadway to
accommodate a vehicle of standard size.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or, if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at, or approximately at, right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate intersection.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES.
      (1)   Means, except as provided in division (2) below, all officers of
counties, cities, or towns, as well as all boards and other public officials of
counties, cities, or towns.
      (2)   For purposes of I.C. 9-21, every county, municipal, and other local
board having authority to adopt local police regulations under the laws and
constitution of the state.
(I.C. 9-13-2-94)
   METAL TIRE. A tire the surface of which in contact with the highway is
wholly or partly of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
(I.C. 9-13-2-102)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Means, except as otherwise provided in this section, a vehicle that
is self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor or an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, or an electric personal assistive mobility device.
      (2)   For purposes of I.C. 9-21:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
      (3)   MOTOR VEHICLE, for purposes of I.C. 9-32, includes a semitrailer,
trailer, or recreational vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105)
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Standard time or daylight saving time, as may be in
current use in this city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. A sign, signal, marking, and device,
including a railroad advance warning sign, not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected, by authority of a public body or an official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(I.C. 9-13-2-117)
   OVERTAKE. The action of a person in the outside lane of a roundabout that is
behind or not adjacent to the vehicle in the lane that causes the person to
become adjacent to or in front of the vehicle in the lane.
   OWNER. Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 9-31 before its repeal, a
person, other than a lienholder, that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121)
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PERSON. An individual, a firm, a partnership, an association, a fiduciary,
an executor or administrator, a governmental entity, a limited liability
company, a corporation, a sole proprietorship, a trust, an estate, or another
entity, except as defined in the following sections:
      (1)   I.C. 9-20-14-0.5;
      (2)   I.C. 9-20-15-0.5; and
      (3)   I.C. 9-32-2-18.6.
(I.C. 9-13-2-124)
   POLE TRAILER. A vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by another
vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole, or by
being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, ordinarily used for
transporting long or irregular shaped loads such as poles, pipes, or structural
members, capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams between the
supporting connections.
(I.C. 9-13-2-126)
   POLICE OFFICER.
      (1)   Means, except as provided in division (3) below, the following:
         (a)   A regular member of the State Police Department;
         (b)   A regular member of a city or town police department;
         (c)   A Town Marshal or Town Marshal Deputy;
         (d)   A regular member of a county sheriff’s department;
         (e)   A conservation officer of the Department of Natural Resources;
         (f)   An individual assigned as a motor carrier inspector under I.C.
10-11-2-26(a);
         (g)   An excise police officer of the Alcohol and Tobacco Commission;
         (h)   A gaming control officer employed by the Gaming Control Division
under I.C. 4-33-20; and
         (i)   A conservancy district marshal or deputy conservancy district
marshal.
      (2)   The term refers to a police officer having jurisdiction in the
state, unless the context clearly refers to a police officer from another state
or a territory or federal district of the United States.
      (3)   For purposes of I.C. 9-21, an officer authorized to direct or
regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(I.C. 9-13-2-127)
   PRIVATE BUS.
      (1)   A motor vehicle that is:
         (a)   Designed to transport 14 passengers; and
         (b)   Used by and any of the following:
            1.   A religious, fraternal, charitable, or benevolent
organization;
            2.   A nonprofit youth organization; and/or
            3.   A public or private post-secondary educational institution.
      (2)   The term includes:
         (a)   The chassis;
         (b)   The body; or
         (c)   Both the body and the chassis of the vehicle.
      (3)   The term does not include the following:
         (a)   A school bus; and
         (b)   A for-hire bus.
(I.C. 9-13-2-133)
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. A way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
(I.C. 9-13-2-137)
   RAILROAD. Does not include street car.
   RAILROAD SIGN or SIGNAL. A sign, signal, or device, erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(I.C. 9-13-2-147)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance
of at least 500 feet is primarily improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
(I.C. 9-13-2-153)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROAD TRACTOR. A vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles and not
constructed to carry any load independently or any part of the weight of a
vehicle or load drawn independently.
(I.C. 9-13-2-156)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include
the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder is
used by persons riding bicycles or other human-powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   ROUNDABOUT. An intersection characterized by a circulatory roadway,
channelized approaches, and yield control of entering traffic. A ROUNDABOUT
encompasses the area bounded by the curb line or, if there is no curb, the edge
of the pavement, and includes crosswalks on any entering or exiting roadway.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and that is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times.
(I.C. 9-13-2-159)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Means, except as provided in division (2) below, a bus used to
transport schoolchildren to and from preschool, elementary, or secondary school
and to and from:
         (a)   School;
         (b)   School athletic games and contests; or
         (c)   Other school functions.
      (2)   For purposes of I.C. 9-21, means a motor vehicle owned by a public
or governmental agency and operated for the transportation of children to or
from school, including Project Headstart, or privately owned and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to and from school, including
Project Headstart.
(I.C. 9-13-2-161)
   SEMITRAILER.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, means a vehicle without
motive power, designed for carrying property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed that some part of the weight of the semitrailer and
that of the semitrailer’s load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle. The
term does not include the following:
         (a)   A pole trailer; and
         (b)   A two-wheeled homemade trailer.
      (2)   For purposes of I.C. 9-21, means a vehicle with or without motive
power, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle. The term does not include a pole
trailer.
(I.C. 9-13-2-164)
   SIDEWALK. The part of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
(I.C. 9-13-2-167)
   SOLID TIRE. A tire of rubber or other resilient material that does not
depend on compressed air for the support of the load.
(I.C. 9-13-2-168)
   STOP. Complete cessation of movement.
   STOP, STOPPING, or STANDING. Any stopping or standing of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part of the way is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel. The term includes an alley in a city or town.
(I.C. 9-13-2-175)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion thereof at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the THROUGH HIGHWAY in obedience to either a stop sign or
a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(I.C. 9-13-2-182)
   TRAFFIC DIVISION. The Traffic Division of the Police Department of the city.
   TRAILER.
      (1)   (a)   Means, except as otherwise provided in this section, a
vehicle:
            1.   Without motive power;
            2.   Designed for carrying persons or property;
            3.   Designed for being drawn by a motor vehicle; and
            4.   So constructed that no part of the weight of the trailer rests
upon the towing vehicle.
         (b)   The term includes pole trailers and two-wheeled homemade
trailers.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of I.C. 9-21, means a vehicle:
            1.   With or without motive power;
            2.   Designed for carrying persons or property;
            3.   Designed for being drawn by a motor vehicle; and
            4.   So constructed that no part of the weight of the trailer rests
upon the towing vehicle.
         (b)   The term does not include pole trailers or special machinery.
      (3)   For purposes of I.C. 9-21-8-12 through 9-21-8-13, means the
combination of any motor vehicle towing another vehicle or trailer.
(I.C. 9-13-2-184)
   TRUCK. A motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property. TRUCK, for purposes of I.C. 9-21-8-3, includes the
following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing another
vehicle and constructed to carry a load other than a part of the weight of the
vehicle and load drawn; and
      (2)   A motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm implement for
drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of agriculture.
(I.C. 9-13-2-188)
   TRUCK-TRACTOR.
      (1)   Means, except as provided in division (2) below, a motor vehicle
designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles and not constructed to
carry a load other than a part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
      (2)   For purposes of I.C. 9-20-13-2, a non-cargo carrying power unit
designed to operate in combination with a semitrailer or trailer and includes a
dromedary deck and plate.
(I.C. 9-13-2-189)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 200 feet for a distance of at least one-
fourth mile.
(I.C. 9-13-2-193)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Means, except as otherwise provided in this section, a device in,
upon, or by which a person or property is, or may be, transported or drawn upon
a highway.
      (2)   The term does not include the following:
         (a)   A device moved by human power;
         (b)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks; and
         (c)   A wheelchair.
      (3)   For the purposes of I.C. 9-17, the term includes the following:
         (a)   Off-road vehicles;
         (b)   Manufactured homes or mobile homes that are:
            1.   Personal property not held for resale; and
            2.   Not attached to real estate by a permanent foundation.
         (c)   Watercraft.
      (4)   For purposes of I.C. 9-22 and I.C. 9-32, the term refers to a
vehicle of a type that must be registered under I.C. 9-18-2 (before expiration)
or I.C. 9-18.1, other than an off-road vehicle or a snowmobile under I.C. 9-18-
2.5 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1-4.
      (5)   For purposes of I.C. 9-30-5, I.C. 9-30-6, and I.C. 9-30-8, and I.C.
9-30-9, the term means a device for transportation by land or air. The term
does not include an electric personal assistive mobility device.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196) (Prior Code, § 40.02) (Ord. 2020-24, passed 6-10-2020; Ord.
2022-30, passed 8-24-2022)
§ 70.03 OFFENSES; MISDEMEANORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required in this title.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 COMMITTING, AIDING, ABETTING A CRIME.
   Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, or aids
or abets in the commission of an act declared herein to be a crime shall be
guilty of such offense, in accordance with state law. Every person who falsely,
fraudulently, forcibly, or willfully induces, causes, coerces, requires,
permits, or directs another to violate any provision of this title is likewise
guilty of such offense, in accordance with state law.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Aiding, inducing, or causing an offense, see I.C. 35-41-2-4
   Attempt, see I.C. 35-41-5-1
   Conspiracy, see I.C. 35-41-5-2
§ 70.05 REQUIRING OR PERMITTING UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VEHICLE.
   It is unlawful for the owner or any other person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly to permit the
operation of such vehicle on a highway in any manner contrary to law.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Aiding, inducing, or causing an offense, see I.C. 35-41-2-4
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 DEFACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 41.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see I.C. 35-43-1-2
§ 70.21 WHEN TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   No provision of the traffic code or other ordinances for which signs or
markings are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the
time and place of the alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required, such
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 41.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC DIVISION
§ 70.35 TRAFFIC DIVISION ESTABLISHED.
   There is established in the Police Department of the city a Traffic Division
to be under the control of an officer of the Police Department appointed by and
directly responsible to the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 40.03)
§ 70.36 DUTY OF TRAFFIC DIVISION.
   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Division, with such aid as may be
rendered by other members of the Police Department, to enforce the traffic code
and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this city, to
make arrests for traffic violation, to investigate accidents, and to cooperate
with the Traffic Engineer and other officers of the city in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed on said Division by
this code.
(Prior Code, § 40.04)
§ 70.37 RECORD OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Department, or the Traffic Division thereof, shall keep a
record of all violations of the traffic ordinances of this city or of the state
vehicle laws of which any person has been charged, together with a record of
the final disposition of all such alleged offenses. Such record shall be so
maintained as to show all types of violations and the total of each. Said
record shall accumulate during at least a five-year period, and from that time
on, the record shall be maintained complete for at least the most recent five-
year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year, a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms.
   (C)   All such records and reports shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 40.05)
§ 70.38 TRAFFIC DIVISION TO INVESTIGATE ACCIDENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Division, assisted by other police
officers of the Department, to investigate traffic accidents and to arrest and
assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law
causing or contributing to such accidents.
(Prior Code, § 40.06)
§ 70.39 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES.
   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the
Traffic Division shall cooperate with the Traffic Engineer in conducting
studies of such accidents and determining remedial measures.
(Prior Code, § 40.07)
§ 70.40 MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The Traffic Division shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location. Such reports shall be available for the use and
information of the Traffic Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 40.08)
§ 70.41 DRIVERS, FILES TO BE MAINTAINED.
   (A)   The Police Department or the Traffic Division thereof shall maintain a
suitable record of all traffic accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions, and
complaints reported for each driver, which shall be filed alphabetically under
the name of the driver concerned.
   (B)   Said Division shall study the cases of all the drivers charged with
frequent or serious violations of the traffic laws or involved in frequent
traffic accidents or any serious accident, and shall attempt to discover the
reasons therefor, and shall take whatever steps are lawful and reasonable to
prevent the same or to have the licenses of such persons suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Such records shall accumulate during at least a five-year period, and
from that time on, such records shall be maintained complete for at least the
most recent five-year period.
(Prior Code, § 40.09)
§ 70.42 ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT.
   The Traffic Division shall annually prepare a traffic report which shall be
filed with the Mayor. Such report shall contain information on traffic matter
in this city as follows:
   (A)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured, and other pertinent traffic accident data;
   (B)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent data
on the safety activities of the police; and
   (C)   The plans and recommendations of the Division for future traffic
safety activities.
(Prior Code, § 40.10)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code for which another penalty is not
specifically provided shall be fined not more than $1,000 for each offense.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Driving Rules
   
71.001   Obedience to no turn signs
   
71.002   Emerging from alley, driveway, or building
   
71.003   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
71.004   Crossing marked traffic lanes
   
71.005   Limitations on turning around
   
71.006   Operation on streets where movement restricted during certain periods
   
71.007   Driving on play streets
   
71.008   Driving on a sidewalk
   
71.009   Limitations on backing
   
71.010   Towing vehicles
   
71.011   Quiet zone
   
71.012   Use of horns; other noises; squealing tires
   
71.013   Through streets designated
   
71.014   Roundabouts
   
71.015   Engine braking
Processions
   
71.025   Permits required for parades and processions
   
71.026   Funeral processions
   
71.027   Permit required for special event
Emergency Vehicles
   
71.040   Emergency vehicles; operation of
   
71.041   Approach of emergency vehicles
Loads
   
71.055   Load restrictions on certain streets
   
71.056   Commercial vehicles to use certain streets
   
71.057   Restrictions on certain vehicles during certain hours
Golf Carts
   
71.070   Definitions
   
71.071   Application
   
71.072   Permitted use
   
71.073   Required equipment
Accident Reports
   
71.085   When driver is unable to report
Public Schools
   
71.100   Definitions
   
71.101   Yield to pedestrians
   
71.102   Parking in excess of 24 hours
   
71.103   Speed limit
   
71.104   Student parking
   
71.105   Reckless or dangerous operation
   
71.106   Traffic sticker required
   
71.107   Operation in traffic lanes
   
71.108   Stop signs
Miscellaneous
   
71.120   Use of coasters, roller skates, and similar devices
   
71.121   Restrictions on use of streets by certain vehicles
   
71.122   Vending vehicles
   
71.123   School zone speed limit
   
71.124   Prohibited activity in streets or highways
   
71.125   Obstructing streets prohibited
 
   
71.999   Penalty
DRIVING RULES
§ 71.001 OBEDIENCE TO NO TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever signs are erected in accordance with this title indicating that no
right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 41.22) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.002 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to
avoid collision, and, on entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Prior Code, § 41.17) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 41.18) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 CROSSING MARKED TRAFFIC LANES.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the boundaries of
any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle, or preparatory to
making a turning movement.
(Prior Code, § 41.19) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.005 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction on any street in a business district, and shall not so
turn a vehicle on any other street unless such movement can be made in safety
and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 41.23) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.006 OPERATION ON STREETS WHERE MOVEMENT RESTRICTED DURING CERTAIN PERIODS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle in violation of
markings, signs, barriers, or other devices placed in accordance with this
title indicating that traffic is to proceed in only one direction during
certain periods.
(Prior Code, § 41.25) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.007 DRIVING ON PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever signs are erected in accordance with this title indicating any
street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle on any
such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or
whose residences are within such closed area, and then any said driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving on any such street or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 41.26) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.008 DRIVING ON A SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 41.27) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.009 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 41.28) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.010 TOWING VEHICLES.
   No person shall use a vehicle to tow another vehicle in or on any street or
public place unless such vehicles are operated at a distance of less than 15
feet apart.
(Prior Code, § 41.29) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.011 QUIET ZONE.
   When any sign or placard containing the phrase “zone of quiet” or “quiet
zone” is placed under the authority of the Traffic Engineer, it shall be
unlawful to blow a horn or a whistle or to make or cause an outcry or any
avoidable noise or clamor likely to disturb persons within 150 feet of such
sign or placard.
(Prior Code, § 41.30) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.012 USE OF HORNS; OTHER NOISES; SQUEALING TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to sound any horn, signal device, or attachment on a
vehicle except as a necessary warning of danger to persons or property. It
shall also be unlawful to create any grating, screeching, grinding, or
squeaking noise, loud reports or shots, or other noises in the use of vehicles
or appurtenances attached thereto.
(Prior Code, § 41.31) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.013 THROUGH STREETS DESIGNATED.
   Those streets and parts of streets described in
Schedule I of Chapter 74 are declared to be through streets. When signs are
erected giving notice thereof, drivers of vehicles shall stop or yield as
directed by the sign at every intersection before entering any of the streets
and parts of streets described therein.
(Prior Code, § 41.14) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.014 ROUNDABOUTS.
   A person who drives a vehicle approaching a roundabout shall do the
following:
   (A)   Yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles already in the
roundabout, even if entering the right lane of the roundabout; and
   (B)   Upon passing the street prior to the desired exit, drivers shall turn
on his or her turn signal to indicate an impending exit.
(Ord. 2020-24, passed 6-10-2020)
§ 71.015 ENGINE BRAKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle within the
incorporated limits of the City of Greenfield, Indiana using engine brakes, as
defined in Title VII,
Chapter 70 or any vehicle equipped with a dynamic braking device engaged.
Violation of this provision shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
71.999.
(Ord. 2022-30, passed 8-24-2022)
PROCESSIONS
§ 71.025 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   All parades or processions shall be carried out in accordance with the
provisions established by the Traffic Safety Committee. No parade or procession
shall occupy, march, or proceed on any street or public way without a permit
issued by the Traffic Safety Officer, or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 41.55) (Ord. 2008-12, passed 5-14-2008) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.026 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   All funeral processions shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions
set out in I.C. 9-21-13 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 41.57) (Ord. 2008-12, passed 5-14-2008) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.027 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SPECIAL EVENT.
   A special event is a temporary cultural, community, or entertainment event
which uses any street, alley, or sidewalk for the purpose of conducting the
activity, including any fund-raising activities by not-for-profit
organizations, such as walks, runs, bike events, concerts, carnivals, fairs,
block parties, celebrations, band performances, or festivals. No person or
organization shall obstruct or cause to be obstructed any street, alley, or
sidewalk within the city for the purpose of conducting a special event without
a permit issued by the Traffic Safety Officer, or his or her designee. The cost
for obtaining such a permit shall be $10.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 5-14-2008) Penalty, see §
71.999
EMERGENCY VEHICLES
§ 71.040 EMERGENCY VEHICLES; OPERATION OF.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to but not on returning from a fire alarm, may exercise
the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the conditions herein
stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the traffic code
or other ordinance;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits if the person who drives the
vehicle does not endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any said vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light
visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 41.40) (Ord. 2014-6, passed 6-11-2014)
§ 71.041 APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   On the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle equipped
with at least one lighted lamp exhibiting a red light visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such
vehicle, other than a police vehicle when operated as an authorized emergency
vehicle, and when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 41.41) (Ord. 1960-6, passed 4-6-1960) Penalty, see §
71.999
LOADS
§ 71.055 LOAD RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When any street is posted by the Traffic Engineer with signs indicating the
maximum gross weight permitted thereon, no person shall operate any vehicle on
such street with a gross weight in excess of the amount specified on such
signs.
(Prior Code, § 41.75) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.056 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES TO USE CERTAIN STREETS.
   Commercial vehicles exceeding 5,000 pounds gross weight shall be restricted,
at all times, to those streets or parts of streets signed in accordance with
this title forbidding their operation, except that such vehicles may be
operated thereon for the purpose of delivering or picking up materials or
merchandise, and then only by entering such street at the intersection nearest
the destination of the vehicle and proceeding thereon no further than the
nearest intersection thereafter. This restriction does not apply to local
public passenger bus operations.
(Prior Code, § 41.76) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.057 RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN VEHICLES DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   Except on state highways or state-controlled highways, no commercial vehicle
with a gross weight in excess of 10,000 pounds shall be operated in any
residence district in the city between the hours of 5:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.,
provided that in the event this restriction shall result in an undue hardship
or unfair competition, the Traffic Commission shall have the power to authorize
the issuance of special permits from time to time as deemed necessary for the
protection of the rights of any individual, firm, or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 41.77) Penalty, see §
71.999
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license valid for the operation of a motor vehicle on
public roads and highways in the state, which was issued by the state or
another state.
   GOLF CART or CART. A three- or four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and
specifically designed and intended to transport one or more individuals for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course that is not capable of
exceeding 30 mph in ordinary operation.
   GREENFIELD GOLF CART PERMIT. The permit required for any golf cart operating
on the streets of the city, pursuant to this subchapter. The permit shall be
issued by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee. The permit shall be
placed on the right rear fender of the golf cart.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Pursuant to I.C. 9-25-2-3, proof of
ability to respond in damages for liability that arises out of the ownership,
maintenance, or use of a golf cart in the following amounts:
      (1)   Twenty-five thousand dollars because of bodily injury to, or death
of, any one person;
      (2)   Subject to the limit in division (1) above, $50,000 because of
bodily injury to, or death of, two or more persons in any one accident; and
      (3)   Ten thousand dollars because of injury to, or destruction of,
property in any one accident.
   STREET. A road or highway included in the city’s inventory and for which the
city has primary responsibility for maintenance and oversight.
(Ord. 2017-19, passed 11-29-2017)
§ 71.071 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter applies to city streets and other public ways. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to or limit the use of golf carts on:
   (A)   Golf courses;
   (B)   Private property; or
   (C)   The city’s use of golf carts on city’s municipal property for official
purposes.
(Ord. 2017-19, passed 11-29-2017)
§ 71.072 PERMITTED USE.
   To protect the safety of residents, no person shall operate a golf cart on
any street within the city except as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any street within the city
without first registering the golf cart and obtaining a golf cart permit for
the golf cart.
   (B)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any street unless they have a
valid driver’s license, are at least 16 years and 180 days of age, and hold
either an identification card issued under I.C. 9-24-16.5 or a photo exempt
identification card issued under I.C. 9-24-16.5, and the golf cart owner and
operator has proof of financial responsibility.
   (C)   No golf cart shall be operated on any state or federal street or
highway (except to cross the street or highway at right angles at a street
intersection), on any sidewalk (except to cross the sidewalk at right angles at
a street intersection), on the Pennsy Trail (except to cross the Pennsy Trail
at right angles at a street intersection), on any other walking path or trail
located in the city (except to cross such walking path or trail at right angles
at a street intersection), or on any street with a posted speed limit in excess
of 30 mph. This prohibition is not intended to apply to official participants
in parades, festivals, or similar events.
   (D)   No golf cart shall be operated on Apple Street, Broadway Street,
Franklin Street, or McKenzie Street between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
and 4:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
   (E)   No golf cart shall be operated in any school zone between the hours of
7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. or 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
   (F)   No golf cart shall be parked on a street at any time.
   (G)   No golf cart shall be operated on a street between sunset and sunrise.
   (H)   No golf cart shall carry more passengers than allowed per the
manufacturer’s rating on said golf cart.
(Ord. 2017-19, passed 11-29-2017; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty,
see §
71.999
§ 71.073 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   In order to obtain a golf cart permit, the golf cart must be in compliance
with the following requirements.
   (A)   The golf cart must be equipped with a triangular slow moving vehicle
emblem, as set forth in I.C. 9-21-9-2. No light bar shall be installed on a
golf cart.
   (B)   The golf cart must be equipped with working headlights, taillights,
rearview mirrors, and turn signals. The lights shall be activated, at all
times, that the golf cart is being operated on a city street.
   (C)   The cost for the golf cart permit shall be $50 and the permit shall be
valid for two years.
(Ord. 2017-19, passed 11-29-2017) Penalty, see §
71.999
ACCIDENT REPORTS
§ 71.085 WHEN DRIVER IS UNABLE TO REPORT.
   (A)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident and there was another occupant in the vehicle
at the time of the accident capable of doing so, such occupant shall give, or
cause to be given, the notice not given by the driver.
   (B)   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written report
of an accident and such driver is not the owner of the vehicle, then the owner
of the vehicle involved in such accident shall, within five days after learning
of the accident, make such report not made by the driver.
(Prior Code, § 41.50) Penalty, see §
71.999
PUBLIC SCHOOLS
§ 71.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGH SCHOOL. All of the real estate, including the parking lot, on which the
city’s Central Community High School is located.
   TRAVEL LANES. Those areas of the paved portions of the high school property
not designated as parking.
   VEHICLES. All motorized vehicles, including motorcycles, motorbikes, and
mopeds.
(Ord. 1979-8, passed 5-10-1979)
§ 71.101 YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS.
   All vehicles traveling upon high school property shall yield to pedestrians.
(Ord. 1979-8, passed 5-10-1979) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.102 PARKING IN EXCESS OF 24 HOURS.
   No vehicle shall be parked, left, or abandoned on high school property for a
period in excess of 24 consecutive hours, without authorization from school
officials.
(Ord. 1979-8, passed 5-10-1979) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.103 SPEED LIMIT.
   No vehicle shall be operated on any area of the high school property at a
speed in excess of 15 mph.
(Ord. 1979-8, passed 5-10-1979) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.104 STUDENT PARKING.
   Pupils shall park only in the student parking areas designated as such and
shall not park in the areas designated for faculty and staff parking or for
visitor parking.
(Ord. 1979-8, passed 5-10-1979) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.105 RECKLESS OR DANGEROUS OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on the high school property
recklessly, or at an unreasonably high rate of speed, or in a manner that will
endanger the safety or property of others, or that will block the proper flow
of traffic.
   (B)   No person operating a motor vehicle on high school property shall
start the vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless and until
movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(Ord. 1979-8, passed 5-10-1979) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.106 TRAFFIC STICKER REQUIRED.
   No pupil shall park any motor vehicle on high school property without
displaying a current and valid school traffic sticker on the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 1979-8, passed 5-10-1979) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.107 OPERATION IN TRAFFIC LANES.
   Except when pulling into a parking space, persons operating a motor vehicle
on high school property shall operate the motor vehicle only upon travel lanes.
(Ord. 1979-8, passed 5-10-1979) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.108 STOP SIGNS.
   All persons operating motor vehicles on high school property shall stop at
the points on the travel lanes where stop signs are erected.
(Ord. 1979-8, passed 5-10-1979) Penalty, see §
71.999
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 71.120 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person on roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go on any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This section shall not apply on any street while set aside as a play street.
(Prior Code, § 41.83) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.121 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF STREETS BY CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   When signs are erected, in accordance with this title, giving notice that no
motorcycle, bicycle, or other non-motorized vehicle or device is permitted on a
street, no person shall disobey the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Prior Code, § 41.86) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.122 VENDING VEHICLES.
   All motor vehicles from which there shall be sold any products while on city
streets:
   (A)   Shall be equipped with front and back mirrors so that the operator
shall be able to see the area immediately in front and in back of his or her
vehicle while seated behind the steering wheel;
   (B)   Shall not vend such products later than one-half hour after sunset;
and
   (C)   Shall not use any noise-making device while the vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. 1966-18, passed 5-4-1966) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.123 SCHOOL ZONE SPEED LIMIT.
   No vehicle shall be operated in any area designated by appropriate signage
as being a school zone at a speed in excess of 10 mph less than the regularly
posted speed when the school zone flashing beacons are activated and flashing.
(Ord. 1998-21, passed 11-12-1998; Ord. 2023-09, passed 4-26-2023) Penalty, see
§
71.999
§ 71.124 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY IN STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to sit, stand, or move within or upon
a street or highway, or median between two streets or highways, for the purpose
of soliciting funds, peddling, selling, or distributing any product, handbills,
or other printed materials, to or from an occupant of a vehicle in the street
or highway.
(Ord. 2002-28, passed 9-12-2002) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.125 OBSTRUCTING STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall place construction dumpsters on or within city rights-
of-way or platted or recorded easements without a permit issued by the Traffic
Safety Officer. The dumpster must be removed from the property after 60
consecutive days, upon completion of the construction, or upon expiration of a
building permit, whichever event first occurs.
   (B)   No person shall obstruct or cause to be obstructed any street, alley,
or sidewalk within the city. This does not prohibit the reasonable and
necessary use of part of the street or sidewalks for the purpose of depositing
building or landscaping materials and/or equipment in front of or in rear of
buildings in process of erection or repair.
   (C)   No person shall place building or landscaping materials upon any
street, alley, or sidewalk without a permit issued by the Traffic Safety
Officer. Where necessary to properly protect the public in the night-time,
lighted amber lamps shall be placed around such materials. When any street,
alley, or sidewalk is obstructed so as to impede or interfere with the use
thereof, the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, may remove such
obstruction. The cost of removing such obstruction may be recovered by the city
from the person causing the obstruction if the obstruction has not been removed
within 24 hours from receipt of notice to remove said obstruction.
   (D)   All dumpsters and containers, whether used for commercial, industrial,
or residential purposes, exceeding 1.5 cubic yards (40.5 cubic feet), shall be
required to comply with § 304.3.3 of the International Fire Code, which
requires such dumpsters and containers with an individual capacity of 1.5 cubic
yards (40.5 cubic feet) or more to not be stored within buildings, nor places
within five feet of combustible walls, openings, or combustible roof eave lines
with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Such dumpsters or containers placed or stored in areas protected by
an approved automatic sprinkler system must comply in all respects with Chapter
9 of the International Fire Code; and
      (2)   Placement or storage of such dumpsters or containers in a structure
shall not be prohibited when the structure is of a Type I or Type IIA
construction and located not less than ten feet from other buildings, when such
dumpsters or containers are used exclusively for storage.
   (E)   No dumpster or container, whether used for commercial, industrial, or
residential purposes, shall be placed in any location or manner which would
block a fire apparatus access road in accordance with International Fire Code §
503.
   (F)   Any person violating this section shall be subject to the penalty
prescribed in §
71.999.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 5-14-2008) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this code for which another penalty
is not specifically provided shall be fined not more than $1,000 for each
offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
71.100 through
71.108 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1 nor more than $100 plus
any applicable court costs.
   (C)   Any person who violates §§
71.014,
71.072, or
71.073 shall be issued a uniform traffic violation citation.
   (D)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle who violates §
71.122 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(Ord. 1966-18, passed 5-4-1966; Ord. 1979-8, passed 5-10-1979; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2020-24, passed 6-10-2020)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Application of chapter
   
72.02   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited
   
72.03   Standing or parking close to curb
   
72.04   Obedience to angle parking signs or markings
   
72.05   Parking within individual parking spaces
   
72.06   Parking in streets and alleys
   
72.07   Standing or parking on divided roadways
   
72.08   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.09   Standing in freight curb loading zone
   
72.10   Regulation governing permits to angle park
   
72.11   Restricted use of bus stands
   
72.12   Stopping, standing, and parking of buses regulated
   
72.13   Parking during emergencies, parades
   
72.14   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
72.15   Parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets
   
72.16   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited during certain hours on
certain streets
   
72.17   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
72.18   Truck parking prohibited
   
72.19   Use of funds from parking meters
   
72.20   Parking time limited in charging station locations
Municipal Parking Lots
   
72.30   City parking lots
   
72.31   Parking restrictions
   
72.32   Storage and parking of trailers, boats, recreational vehicles, and
commercial vehicles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the standing or parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Prior Code, § 42.01)
§ 72.02 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk or between a sidewalk and curb;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection, or within 20 feet of any intersection as
measured from the curb or, in the absence of a curb, from the edge of the
roadway;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
Traffic Engineer has indicated a different length by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of said entrance when properly signposted;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   On any bridge or other elevated structure on a highway or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing, or
parking;
      (15)   On the traveled portion of any roadway which does not have a curb
or gutter when such stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (16)   On or within a fire lane that is located on property that is
privately or publicly owned; and
      (17)   In front of any receptacle designed to receive or send mail
through the U.S. Postal Service or any other parcel or package delivered by any
other delivery service.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb at such distance as is
unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 42.02) (Ord. 2000-6, passed 6-22-2000; Ord. 2018-12, passed 9-
12-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic
movement, and with the right-hand or left-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12
inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in §
72.04.
(Prior Code, § 42.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING SIGNS OR MARKINGS.
   On those streets which have been signed or marked by the Traffic Engineer
for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
The vehicle must enter the parking space with a forward movement. Wherever
angle parking is permitted, no person shall park or stand a vehicle with a
total length in excess of 20 feet.
(Prior Code, § 42.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING WITHIN INDIVIDUAL PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Where individual parking spaces are designated and marked off in
accordance with this title, vehicles shall be parked entirely within the area
designated by such markings, and it shall be unlawful to park any standard size
vehicle across any such markings.
   (B)   When such individual parking spaces are located within a parking meter
zone, a vehicle which is of a size too large to be parked within a single space
shall be permitted to occupy two adjoining spaces when the required coins shall
have been deposited in the parking meter for each space occupied.
(Prior Code, § 42.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such manner or
under such conditions so as to leave available less than ten feet of the width
of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 42.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 STANDING OR PARKING ON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction on any such roadway, no person shall stand or park
a vehicle on either or both sides of such one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking in accordance with this title.
(Prior Code, § 42.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle on any street or highway for the principal
purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 42.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 STANDING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zone are in effect, except
for the loading or unloading of passengers with a three-minute time limit. In
no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30
minutes.
   (B)   A freight curb loading zone is hereby established on the west side of
East Street from a point 123 feet north of the north edge of Main Street to a
point 162 feet north of the north edge of Main Street.
(Prior Code, § 42.12) (Ord. 2004-22, passed 8-26-2004) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 REGULATION GOVERNING PERMITS TO ANGLE PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who has been granted a permit to load or
unload at any angle to the curb to violate any of the special terms or
conditions of any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 42.13) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop when any such stop has been officially designated and appropriately
signed, except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop
therein for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading
passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any bus waiting to enter
or about to enter such zone.
(Prior Code, § 42.14) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING OF BUSES REGULATED.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle on any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle on any street, at
any place, for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so designated,
except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the
bus approximately parallel to the curb so as to unduly impede the movement of
other vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 42.15) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING DURING EMERGENCIES, PARADES.
   During any public parade, assembly, or demonstration on the streets, or
during an emergency, officers of the Police Department may prohibit parking on
any street to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians. Any owner, driver,
or operator of any vehicle, when called on by a police officer, at any such
time, to remove the same, shall do so immediately, and if such owner, driver,
or operator cannot be found, any police officer may himself or herself remove
such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 42.16) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time on any of the streets or parts of streets described in
Schedule VI of the Chapter 74.
(Prior Code, § 42.17) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When appropriate signs are erected on a street or alley indicating that
stopping, standing, or parking of a vehicle is prohibited or restricted during
certain hours, no person shall park a vehicle in violation of the regulations
indicated on such signs.
(Prior Code, § 42.18) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON
CERTAIN STREETS.
   When appropriate signs are erected on a street or alley indicating that
stopping, standing, or parking of a vehicle is prohibited during certain hours,
no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in violation of the regulations
indicated on such signs.
(Prior Code, § 42.19) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When appropriate signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle for longer than the specified time within the
district or on any of the streets or parts of streets described in
Schedule VII of Chapter 74.
(Prior Code, § 42.20) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a truck or other vehicle
having a gross vehicle weight in excess of 10,000 pounds by its manufacturer’s
rating, or any semitractor motor vehicle or semitrailer, on any public street,
alley, public parking lot, or public park in the city except for the length of
time necessary for the expeditious loading or unloading of materials.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow in any
residential area within the city any truck engine or auxiliary engine on any
truck or semitrailer to run for a continuous period of time in excess of 15
minutes.
   (C)   The Police Department or any police officer is authorized to remove
and tow away, or have removed and towed away by a commercial towing service, at
the owner’s expense, any vehicle illegally parked in any place in violation of
this section.
(Ord. 1980-8, passed 4-24-1980) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 USE OF FUNDS FROM PARKING METERS.
   (A)   The specified coin, coins, or tokens required to be deposited in
parking meters as provided herein are levied and assessed as fees to provide
for the proper regulation and control of traffic on the public streets, and the
cost of supervision and regulating the parking of vehicles in the parking meter
zones created hereby; and to cover the cost of purchasing, acquiring,
installing, operating, maintaining, supervising, regulating, and controlling
the parking meters described herein.
   (B)   All license fees collected from mechanical parking devices shall be
deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer to the credit of the city in a special fund,
which special fund shall be disbursed according to state law.
(Prior Code, § 42.52) (Ord. 1949-6, passed 4-6-1949; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-
13-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Special fund, see I.C. 36-9-12-4
§ 72.20 PARKING TIME LIMITED IN CHARGING STATION LOCATIONS.
   When appropriate signs are erected immediately adjacent to a designated
electric charging station location, the stopping, standing, or parking of a
vehicle is prohibited for longer than 30 minutes after charging of the vehicle
has been accomplished.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-27-2019; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS
§ 72.30 CITY PARKING LOTS.
   The following city parking lots acquired and maintained by the city for the
parking of vehicles shall, for the purpose of this subchapter, be defined and
described as follows.
   (A)   Lot number one (commonly known as Harvest Market parking lot). The
parking lot situated on lots numbered 107, 108, and 109 in block 20 in
Wingfield’s Reserve of the original plat of the town, now city, and is bounded
on the east by Mount Street, on the north by South Street, on the west by
Pennsylvania Street, and on the south by an existing alley.
   (B)   Lot number two (commonly known as Christian Church parking lot). The
parking lot is situated on a part of lots numbered 32 and 33 in block number 10
in the original plat of the town, now city, beginning on the north line of lot
number 32, 70 feet east of the northwest corner thereof; thence east on the
north line of said lots numbered 32 and 33, 47 feet and four inches; thence
south parallel with the east line of said lot number 33 to the south line
thereof; thence west on said south line to a point 70 feet east of the
southwest corner of said lot number 32; thence north parallel with the east
line to the place of beginning; and 60 feet of uniform width off of the east
side of lot number 33 in block 10 in the original plat of the town, now city,
the same being 132 feet in length with the six feet of the south end thereof
used for alley purposes.
   (C)   Lot number three. The parking lot situated on part of lots numbered 1
and 2 in block number 1 of the First South Addition and part of lots numbered 1
and 2 in block number 1 of Pierson’s Addition to the city, and which parking
lot is bounded on the east side by State Street; on the south side by the
railroad tracks; on the north side by the existing alley; and on the west side
by Mount Street.
   (D)   Lot number four (commonly known as Miller’s Jewelry parking lot). The
parking lot situated on a part of lot numbered 54 in block 17 in the original
plat of the town, now city, and is bounded on the east by Brandywine Steak
House, on the north by an existing alley, on the west by an existing alley, and
on the south by Main Street.
   (E)   Lot number five (commonly known as City Hall Visitors parking lot).
The parking lot is situated immediately south of City Hall and consists of
eight angled parking spaces.
   (F)   Lot number six (commonly known as City Hall Employees parking lot).
The parking lot is situated south of City Hall and is bounded on the north by
Gooding Street, on the west by USA Custom Printing, on the south by South
Street, and on the east by McCleerey Sporting Goods and LRF Electronics, and
consists of 20 parking spaces.
   (G)   Lot number seven (commonly known as Greenfield Central Community
School Corporation parking lot). The parking area is described as part of lots
122 and 123 in block number 23 of Spillman’s Reserve to the original plat of
the town, now city, as per the plat thereof recorded in plat book 1, page 1, in
the office of the Recorder of the county, consisting of an area located at 110
West North Street, whose measurements are approximately 120 feet by 155 feet
and is bound on the east and north sides by alleys, on the south side by West
North Street, and on the west side by the offices of Greenfield Central
Community School Corporation.
   (H)   Lot number eight (commonly known as Lincoln Square parking lot). The
parking area is described as lot number 129 in block number 22 of Spillman’s
Reserve to the original plat of the town, now city, as per plat thereof
recorded in plat book 1, page 1, in the office of the Recorder of the county,
consisting of an area approximately 89 feet by 132 feet and bordered on the
east and north side by alleys, on the south side by Main Street, and on the
east side by the structure currently housing Lincoln Square Pancake House.
   (I)   Lot number nine (commonly known as the Griggsby’s Station parking
lot). The parking area is described as a part of lot number 70 in block 18 in
the original plat of the town, now city, as recorded in plat book 1, page 1, in
the office of the Recorder of the county, more particularly described as
follows: beginning at a five-eighths inch capped rebar marked “C2LS Firm #0035”
marking the Northwest corner of said lot 70; thence on an assumed bearing of
North 90 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds East along the North line thereof a
distance of 44.33 feet to a “Mag” nail marking the Northeast corner of a tract
of land described in instrument number 87-6615 in said Recorder’s office;
thence South 00 degrees 03 minutes 43 seconds East along the East line there of
a distance of 132.18 feet to a “Mag” nail marking the Southeast corner of said
tract, said point also being on the South line of said lot 70; thence North 89
degrees 55 minutes 00 seconds West along the South line of said lot 70 a
distance of 44.36 feet to a “Mag” nail marking the Southwest corner thereof;
thence North 00 degrees 02 minutes 57 seconds West along the West line of said
lot 70 a distance of 132.12 feet to the point of beginning. Containing 0.135
acres or 5,860 square feet, more or less.
   (J)   Lot number ten (commonly known as the Living Alley). The parking area
is described as the west half of lot number 30 in block number 17 in the
original plat of the town, now city, in the office of the Recorder of the
county.
(Ord. 1972-12, passed 9-6-1972; Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-27-2003; Ord. 2018-12,
passed 9-12-2018)
§ 72.31 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park, at any time, any vehicle in lot number
one, two, three, or four that is larger than a three-fourths ton truck.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in lot number 5 for a
consecutive period of time in excess of 20 minutes from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in lot number 6 from 8:00
a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, unless a parking permit issued by the
Clerk-Treasurer is displayed in the front window of the vehicle, or is a
vehicle owned by the city.
   (D)   The Police Department or any police or parking enforcement officer is
authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by a
commercial towing service, at the owner’s expense, any vehicle parked in lot
numbers one through ten in violation of this section.
   (E)   All municipal/city parking lots may be closed to parking at any time
by order of the Mayor and the erection of signs designating the time said lots
are closed to all parking.
   (F)   Overnight parking by any vehicle shall not be allowed on any
municipal/city parking lot with the exception of any city-owned vehicle.
(Ord. 1972-12, passed 9-6-1972; Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-27-2003; Ord. 2018-12,
passed 9-12-2018; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.32 STORAGE AND PARKING OF TRAILERS, BOATS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, AND
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   Commercial vehicles, boats, and trailers of all types, including travel,
camping, hauling, boat, any non-motorized vehicle capable of being towed, and/
or mobile homes shall not be parked or stored on any parcel occupied by a
residential dwelling, or on any parcel in any residential district, except in
accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   No commercial vehicle, boat, trailer of any type, including travel,
camping, hauling, boat, or any non-motorized vehicle capable of being towed
shall be allowed to park on private property, except in conformity with the
following conditions:
      (1)   Shall not be parked as to obstruct all or any part of any public
sidewalk;
      (2)   Shall not obstruct pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Shall not obstruct the view of any traffic-control sign or device;
      (4)   Shall be maintained in a clean and neat appearance;
      (5)   Shall, at all times, have tires properly inflated to their
manufacturer’s recommended PSI;
      (6)   Shall not be stored in any manner that results in the accumulation
of debris, trash, or other material on, around, beside, or under said unit;
      (7)   Commercial vehicles, boats, campers, and trailers of all types,
including travel, camping, hauling, and boat, as well as any non-motorized
vehicle capable of being towed and/or any mobile home shall be validly licensed
and/or registered (if applicable); and
      (8)   Notwithstanding anything contained herein, a commercial vehicle,
boat, camper, trailer of all types, including travel, camping, hauling, and
boat, as well as any non-motorized vehicle capable of being towed and/or any
mobile home shall not be allowed to stop, stand, or be parked, so as to
encroach into any easement without first applying for an encroachment agreement
through the City Department of Planning and Engineering and said encroachment
agreement being issued by the City Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   No more than one vehicle whose gross weight exceeds 10,000 pounds of
the following: commercial vehicle, trailer, boat, recreational vehicle, camper,
or other items meeting the descriptions provided herein shall be parked or
located on any parcel.
   (C)   Commercial vehicles, boats, campers, and trailers of all types,
including travel, camping, hauling, boat, recreational vehicle, any non-
motorized vehicle capable of being towed, and/or mobile home shall not be
parked on any residential street or within two feet of the sidewalk, street, or
public right-of-way.
   (D)   Commercial vehicles, boats, campers, and trailers of all types,
including, travel, camping, hauling, boat, recreational vehicle, any non-
motorized vehicle capable of being towed, and mobile home shall be parked on a
hard surface of a uniform nature that encompasses the entire length and width
of the vehicle/boat/camper/trailer at issue and shall not be parked on grass or
surface composed of other plant material.
   (E)   For the purposes of this subchapter, wherever used, the term
commercial vehicle shall exclude standard sized passenger vehicles, including,
but not limited to, automobiles, passenger-side delivery vehicles, vans, sport-
utility vehicles, and pickup trucks, any of which may include the logo of a
commercial business painted or applied to the vehicle; however, no such vehicle
shall be allowed if it is used for hauling explosives, gasoline, chemicals, or
liquefied petroleum products.
   (F)   A mobile home shall be parked or stored only in a mobile home park,
sales lot, or trailer storage area which is in conformity with the ordinances
of the city.
   (G)   Not more than one camper, travel trailer, or recreational vehicle,
which shall not exceed 32 feet in length or eight feet in width, may be parked
on any parcel, subject to the terms and conditions set forth hereinabove.
   (H)   A camper, travel trailer, or recreational vehicle may be occupied by
guests for sleeping purposes only, while it is parked or stored on any
residential parcel or lot subject to the terms set forth hereinabove, for a
period not to exceed seven days within any 30 consecutive calendar days.
   (I)   Not more than one boat, boat trailer, jet ski, or jet ski trailer,
which does not exceed 32 feet in length or eight feet in width, may be parked
on any residential lot or parcel.
   (J)   Not more than one utility or hauling trailer not to exceed 18 feet in
length, eight in width, or nine feet in height subject to the provisions set
forth herein may be parked on any residential lot or parcel.
   (K)   Nothing contained herein is intended to supersede any bylaws,
covenants, rules, or regulations associated with any subdivision or any
homeowners association associated with any subdivision within the city.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-27-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of police officers of the city, acting in
accordance with instructions issued by the Mayor, to report:
      (1)   The location where the vehicle occupying the parking space is or
has been parking in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The state license number of such vehicle;
      (3)   The time during which such vehicle is parking in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter; and
      (4)   Any other facts, a knowledge of which is necessary to a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending such violation.
   (B)   Each such police officer or parking enforcement officer shall also
attach to such vehicle a notice to the owner or operator thereof that such
vehicle has been parked in violation of a provision of this chapter. Each owner
or operator shall pay to the city, as a penalty for such parking violation set
forth in §
72.31, the sum of $20; provided, however, that if that sum is not paid within
seven days after the date of the notice, the penalty shall be increased to the
sum of $30. In addition to the fines set forth above, any vehicle having three
unpaid parking violations, the fines for which remain unpaid, in excess of 30
days after the date of issuance that is found parked in a public place is
subject to being restrained by having a wheel boot installed by employees of
the city, until such time as all outstanding fines and fees are paid in full.
In addition, there shall be a $25 fee for removal of the wheel boot. The Chief
of Police shall have the discretion to determine whether or not motorcycles
and/or any other vehicles shall be towed to safe storage in lieu of using the
wheel boot for violations of this section. The vehicle shall be released only
after payment of all outstanding fines and fees, the issuance of a release
document by the City Police Department and/or the City Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, and the payment of any costs incurred for the towing and storage of the
vehicle.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to notify the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the name and other identifying information of the
owner or operator of any vehicle that violates this chapter when the penalty as
set forth herein shall remain unpaid for a period of more than 30 days after
the violation requesting that said owner or operator’s driving privileges
within the state be suspended until payment of said fines.
   (D)   Any person violating any section of this chapter, except §
72.31, shall pay, as a penalty, the sum of $50. The failure to make payment of
such fine within 72 hours shall render such person subject to the penalties
prescribed in division (C) above.
   (E)   Any person violating §
72.32 shall be subject to the following enforcement and penalty provisions:
      (1)   Citations.
         (a)   Any person who parks or stores a vehicle in violation of this
section may be issued a citation and order for abatement by the designated
enforcement entity. This section is listed as one under the jurisdiction of the
Ordinance Violations Bureau.
         (b)   A warning citation may be issued for a violation of this
section. The warning citation shall be worded so as to sufficiently identify
the premises and the nature of the violation. If the premises owner or person
being cited fails to correct the violation in the time allotted by a police
officer, then a citation and order of abatement shall be issued. The issuance
of a warning citation is not required and shall not be a prerequisite to the
issuance of a citation and order for abatement. There shall be no right of
appeal from the issuance of a warning citation.
         (c)   Whenever a police officer determines there has been a violation
of this section, a citation and order of abatement shall be given to the owner
or the person or persons responsible. The citation and order of abatement must
be in writing, include the parcel address where the violation occurred, include
a statement of the violation or violations and sections violated and why the
citation is being issued and actions necessary to correct the violation, and
include a notice stating that the violator must pay the fine to the Ordinance
Violations Clerk within 72 hours, excluding Saturday, Sunday, and legal
holidays.
         (d)   If the violation is deemed to be a threat to public health or
safety by the police officer, the police officer, or his or her designee, may
order the parking or storage activity to cease and desist immediately,
regardless of whether a warning ticket or citation has been issued.
         (e)   The citation and order of abatement shall be in a form approved
by the Board of Public Works and Safety and shall be deemed properly served if
a copy is sent by certified return receipt mail, hand delivered by an employee
of the city, placed in a conspicuous place on the property where the violation
occurred, or by any other method of service acceptable pursuant to I.C. 1-1-7-
1.
         (f)   The citation shall contain language advising that a person who
receives one may elect to stand trial rather than pay the fine. In order to do
so, a person receiving the citation must return a copy of the citation with 72
hours to the Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk advising of his or her intent to
stand trial. The Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk shall inform the City
Attorney of all such intents received.
      (2)   Remedies. If a person fails to pay the fine within 72 hours and
fails to give notice within 72 hours of his or her intent to stand trial, the
vehicle in question may be towed by the City Police Department at the owner’s
expense. In addition, the City Attorney may commence enforcement activities, up
to and including the filing of a civil lawsuit and/or pursue any other legal
remedies at the city’s disposal.
      (3)   Fines and penalties.
         (a)   Each day a violation remains uncorrected is a distinct and
separate violation subject to an additional citation and fine in the amount
prescribed below.
         (b)   The monetary fine for each violation shall be $50, except that
for repeated violations within 12 consecutive months, the following fines shall
apply:
 
Second citation:                $150
Each citation in excess of two: $250
 
         (c)   A person adjudged to have committed a violation of this section
is liable for the court costs and attorney fees. No costs shall be assessed
against the enforcement agency in any such action.
(Prior Code, § 42.51) (Ord. 1949-6, passed 4-6-1949; Ord. 1968-7, passed 3-7-
1968; Ord. 1978-21, passed 12-14-1978; Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-11-1988; Ord.
1996-4, passed 5-9-1996; Ord. 1996-18, passed 9-26-1996; Ord. 2000-6, passed 6-
22-2000; Ord. 2003-2, passed 2-27-2003; Ord. 2004-22, passed 8-26-2004; Ord.
2009-13, passed 5-27-2009; Ord. 2019-3; passed 3-27-2019; Ord. 2019-25, passed
on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Definition
Equipment
   
73.15   Lights
   
73.16   Brakes
Rules of Operation
   
73.30   General traffic laws apply
   
73.31   Obedience to signs and signals
   
73.32   Reasonable speed
   
73.33   Right side of roadway
   
73.34   Riding on seat only
   
73.35   Attachment to moving vehicle
   
73.36   Riding in a group
   
73.37   Carrying articles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. A light vehicle having two wheels, one behind the other; a steering
handle; a saddle seat or seats; and pedals by which it is propelled.
(Prior Code, § 43.01) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961)
EQUIPMENT
§ 73.15 LIGHTS.
   Every bicycle when in use at night-time shall be equipped with a light on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear which shall be
visible from all distances from 50 to 300 feet to the rear when directly in
front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a
red light may be used in addition to the red reflector.
(Prior Code, § 43.20) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 BRAKES.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheel skid on a dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 43.21) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961) Penalty, see §
73.99
RULES OF OPERATION
§ 73.30 GENERAL TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle on a roadway shall be subject to the
provisions of the traffic laws of this city applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to
those provisions of this title which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 43.10) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961)
§ 73.31 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to vehicles,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 43.11) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.32 REASONABLE SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a greater speed than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 43.13) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.33 RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or
building shall yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk area and on entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Prior Code, § 43.14) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.34 RIDING ON SEAT ONLY.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than on or astride the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any person on such
bicycle other than on a firmly attached and regular seat thereon, nor shall any
person ride on a bicycle other than above authorized.
(Prior Code, § 43.12) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.35 ATTACHMENT TO MOVING VEHICLE.
   No person riding on any bicycle shall attach the same or himself or herself
to any vehicle on any roadway.
(Prior Code, § 43.15) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.36 RIDING IN A GROUP.
   Persons operating bicycles on a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 43.15) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.37 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article,
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handle bar.
(Prior Code, § 43.15) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor to violate the provisions of this chapter. It is a
misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this chapter. The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward
shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any
of the provisions of this chapter. These regulations applicable to bicycles
shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated on any street or on those exceptions
stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 43.02)
   (B)   Penalty. Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $10 or by removal and
detention of the license plate from such person’s bicycle for a period not to
exceed 90 days or both.
(Prior Code, § 43.99) (Ord. 1961-8, passed 3-22-1961)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Preferential streets
   
II.   One-way streets and alleys
   
III.   Speed limits
   
IV.   Right turns on red prohibited
   
V.   No passing zones
   
VI.   Parking prohibited at all times
   
VII.   Parking time limited
   
VIII.   Driving prohibited at all times
   
IX.   Handicapped parking
   
X.   Roundabouts
   
XI.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PREFERENTIAL STREETS.
   The following streets are designated as preferential streets, and traffic
approaching an intersection with these streets shall stop and yield the right-
of-way to traffic on these streets:
Street or Road Direction Stops for Ord. No.
Street or Road       Direction            Stops for            Ord. No.
Adam Court           Eastbound            James Boulevard      2006-2
Allen Lane           Both north and south Ellis Drive          2006-2
Allen Lane           Northbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Alpine Lane          Eastbound            Foothill Drive       2024-43
Amanda Circle        Eastbound            James Boulevard      2006-2
American Legion      Both north and south E. Osage Street      2006-2
Place
Anderson Boulevard   Eastbound            Hastings Boulevard   2006-2
Antioch Street       Northbound           Plumwood Street      2024-16
Antioch Street       Southbound           Dove Trail           2024-16
Apple Street         Signalized           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Appleview Lane       Eastbound            Courtland Court      2006-2
Appleview Lane       Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
Ariel Way            Northbound           Jasmine Drive        2006-2
Arlington Drive      Southbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Arlington Drive      Westbound            Lexington Trail      2006-2
Ashby Drive          Northbound           Roosevelt Drive      2006-2
Ashby Drive          Southbound           Winfield Park Drive  2006-2
Atir Lane            Northbound           Jasmine Drive        2006-2
Baily Circle         Westbound            Streamside Drive     2006-2
Baldwin Street       Both north and south Lincoln Street       2009-6
Baldwin Street       Southbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Barrett Drive        Both north and south E. Martindale Drive  2006-2
Barrett Drive        Southbound           E. New Road          2006-2
Bayberry Drive       Southbound           E. McClarnon Drive   2006-2
Bear Story Boulevard Eastbound            Dream March Drive    2006-2
Bear Story Boulevard Westbound            Center Street        2006-2
Bear Story Court     Westbound            Dream March Drive    2006-2
Berry Street         Both north and south E. Second Street     2006-2
Berry Street         Both north and south E. Fourth Street     2006-2
Berry Street         Both north and south E. Sixth Street      2006-2
Berry Street         Southbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Bittersweet Drive    Westbound            Bowman Drive         2006-2
Blank Street         Westbound            S. State Road 9      2006-2
Blossom Court        Southbound           Leisure Way          2018-11
Blue Road            Southbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Bluebird Court       Westbound            Bluebird Drive       2006-2
Bluebird Drive       Southbound           Whispering Trail     2006-2
Bluebird Drive       Westbound            Sherwood Drive       2006-2
Bluestone Drive      Westbound            Heartwood Hill       2006-2
Bobtail Drive        Both north and south Keystone Drive       2014-21; 2016-3
Bobtail Drive        Northbound           Spring Dipper Drive  2006-2
Bobtail Drive        Southbound           Silver Spoon Drive   2018-11
Boots Trail          Both east and west   Lexington Trail      2020-24
Boots Trail          Northbound           Brockton Court       2020-24
Boots Trail          Westbound            Greenbrook Drive     2006-2
Bowman Court         Westbound            Bowman Drive         2006-2
Bowman Drive         Northbound           W. Davis Road        2006-2
Brandywine Parkway   Northbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Brandywine Ridge                         Morristown Pike      2008-5
Brandywine Ridge                         Shadow Creek Pass    2008-5
Brandywine Street    Northbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Braun Drive          Eastbound            Murdoch Drive        2006-2
Braun Drive          Westbound            Kingen Drive         2006-2
Breakwater Drive     Eastbound            Springside Court     2006-2
Breakwater Drive     Westbound            Indigo Drive         2006-2
Bridgewater Drive    Northbound           Streamside Drive     2006-2
Broadway Street      Signalized           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Brockton Court       Northbound           McClarnon Drive      2020-24
Brook Street         Northbound           Tague Street         2006-2
Brookstone Drive     Northbound           Sweetwater Lane      2006-2
Brookview Circle     Westbound            Prairieview Lane     2006-2
Bruner Drive         Westbound            Bowman Drive         2006-2
Bumblebee Court      Westbound            Orphan Annie Drive   2006-2
Bumblebee Way        Eastbound            Orphan Annie Drive   2006-2
Burt Drive           Southbound           Fleming Drive        2023-15
Burt Drive           Northbound           McClarnon Drive      2023-15
Butternut Circle     Northbound           E. McClarnon Drive   2006-2
Buttonwood Court     Southbound           Morningside Drive    2006-2
CR 300 North         Eastbound            Fortville Pike       2006-2
CR 300 North         Signalized           N. State Road 9      2020-19
CR 400 East          Northbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
CR 400 East          Southbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Candlelite Court     Westbound            Candlelite Drive     2006-2
Candlelite Drive     Southbound           W. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Cardinal Lane        Northbound           Pauls Drive          2006-2
Cardinal Lane        Westbound            Greenhills Road      2006-2
Carlton Drive        Eastbound            Woodstream Court     2006-2
Carlton Drive        Eastbound            Woodstream Drive     2006-2
Catt Drive           Northbound           W. Muskegeon Drive   2006-2
Catt Drive           Southbound           Dorothy Drive        2006-2
Center Street        Four-way stop        W. Osage Street      2006-2
Center Street        Northbound           Tague Street         2006-2
Center Street        Northbound           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Center Street        Southbound           Tague Street         2006-2
Center Street        Southbound           W. Davis Road        2006-2
Chapman Boulevard    Northbound           E. Davis Road        2006-2
Chapman Boulevard    Southbound           Chapman Drive        2006-2
Chapman Boulevard    Southbound           Chapman Court        2006-2
Chapman Court        Northbound           Chapman Drive        2006-2
Chapman Drive        Westbound            S. State Road 9      2006-2
Chapman Overlook     Eastbound            Chapman Drive        2006-2
Cherry Street        Both north and south E. Fifth Street      2006-2
Cherry Street        Both north and south E. First Street      2006-2
Cherry Street        Both north and south E. Third Street      2006-2
Cherry Street        Southbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Chestnut Lane        Northbound           W. Park Avenue       2006-2
Chestnut Lane        Southbound           Sycamore Lane        2006-2
Clove Court          Northbound           Jasmine Drive        2006-2
Coachlite Drive      Northbound           W. Green Meadows     2006-2
                                          Drive
Coachlite Drive      Southbound           Gaslite Lane         2006-2
Cold Springs Drive   Eastbound            Meridian Road        2011-5
Colony Court         Eastbound            Liberty Lane         2006-2
Compton Drive        Northbound           Fleming Drive        2023-15
Cone Court           Northbound           Longfellow Lane      2006-2
Constitution Street  Westbound            Liberty Lane         2006-2
Copeland Farms Drive Both north and south W. Muskegeon Drive   2006-2
County Road 400 East Southbound           McKenzie Road        2023-16
Courtland Court      Northbound           Mill Run Boulevard   2006-2
Coventry Court       Eastbound            Greenbrook Drive     2006-2
Creekview Court      Northbound           Creekview Drive      2006-2
Creekwood Drive      Eastbound            Apple Street         2006-2
Creekview Drive      Northbound           Lakeview Drive       2006-2
Creekview Drive      Westbound            Waterview Boulevard  2006-2
Cricket Reel         Northbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Cricket Reel         Southbound           Morningside Drive    2006-2
Cricket Reel Court   Northbound           Morningside Drive    2006-2
Crossing Court                           NW Bay Drive         2006-2
Crossing Court       Southbound           N. Martindale Drive  2006-2
Crossing Lane        Westbound            N. Martindale Drive  2006-2
Crossing Terrace     Northbound           Crossing Lane        2006-2
Crossing Terrace     Southbound           Crossing Court       2006-2
Cypress Drive        Both north and south Evergreen Drive      2006-2
Cypress Drive        Northbound           E. McClarnon Drive   2006-2
Cypress Drive        Southbound           Worchester Way       2006-2
Date Street          Southbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Davis Road           Both east and west   S. State Road 9      2006-2
Declaration Drive    Eastbound            Van Buren Street     2006-2
Declaration Drive    Westbound            Liberty Lane         2006-2
Depot Street         Eastbound            S. Pennsylvania      2006-2
                                          Street
Depot Street         Westbound            S. Riley Avenue      2006-2
Dorthy Drive         Eastbound            Copeland Farms Drive 2006-2
Dorthy Drive         Eastbound            Dale Court           2006-2
Dorthy Drive         Westbound            Kingen Drive         2006-2
Douglas Street       Both east and west   N. East Street       2006-2
Douglas Street       Both east and west   N. Spring Street     2006-2
Douglas Street       Both east and west   N. State Road 9      2006-2
Douglas Street       Eastbound            N. Pratt Street      2006-2
Dove Trail           Eastbound            Windswept Road       2024-16
Dove Trail           Eastbound            Oakswept Way         2024-16
Dove Trail           Westbound            Oakswept Way         2024-16
Downing Court        Northbound           Ellis Drive          2006-2
Dream March Drive    Northbound           Longfellow Court     2006-2
Dream March Drive    Northbound           Longfellow Lane      2006-2
Dream March Drive    Southbound           W. Davis Road        2006-2
E. Apple Lake Drive  Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
E. Davis Road        Eastbound            Morristown Pike      2006-2
E. Eighth Street     Eastbound            Berry Street         2006-2
E. Eighth Street     Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
E. Fifth Street      Both east and west   Berry Street         2006-2
E. Fifth Street      Eastbound            Date Street          2006-2
E. Fifth Street      Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
E. First Street      Both east and west   Berry Street         2006-2
E. First Street      Eastbound            Date Street          2006-2
E. First Street      Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
E. Fourth Street     Both east and west   Cherry Street        2006-2
E. Fourth Street     Eastbound            Date Street          2006-2
E. Fourth Street     Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
E. Lincoln Street    Both east and west   N. Baldwin Street    2006-2
E. Lincoln Street    Both east and west   N. Howard Street     2006-2
E. Lincoln Street    Both north and south N. Wood Street       2006-2
E. Lincoln Street    Four-way stop        N. East Street       2006-2
E. Lincoln Street    Four-way stop        N. Pratt Street      2006-2
E. Lincoln Street    Four-way stop        N. Spring Street     2006-2
E. Lincoln Street    Southbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
E. Lincoln Street    Westbound            N. State Road 9      2006-2
E. Martindale Drive  Eastbound            Florence Drive       2006-2
E. Martindale Drive  Eastbound            Layton Lane          2006-2
E. Martindale Drive  Eastbound            N. Martindale Drive  2006-2
E. McClarnon Drive   Eastbound            N. Blue Road         2006-2
E. McClarnon Drive   Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
E. Mill Street       Both east and west   Meek Street          2006-2
E. Mill Street       Westbound            American Legion      2006-2
                                          Place
E. North Street      Eastbound            Howard Street        2006-2
E. Park Avenue       Eastbound            Apple Street         2006-2
E. Park Avenue       Four-way stop        N. Spring Street     2006-2
E. Park Avenue       Four-way stop        N. Swope Street      2006-2
E. Pierson Street    Eastbound            Meek Street          2006-2
E. Second Street     Both east and west   Cherry Street        2006-2
E. Second Street     Eastbound            Date Street          2006-2
E. Second Street     Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
E. Seventh Street    Both east and west   Berry Street         2006-2
E. Seventh Street    Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
E. Sixth Street      Eastbound            Cherry Street        2006-2
E. Sixth Street      Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
E. South Street      Both east and west   Brandywine Street    2006-2
E. South Street      Westbound            American Legion      2006-2
                                          Place
E. South Street      Westbound            Vine Street          2006-2
E. Spring Street     Southbound           E. South Street      2006-2
E. Third Street      Both east and west   Berry Street         2006-2
E. Third Street      Eastbound            Date Street          2006-2
E. Third Street      Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
East Street          Northbound           Grant Street         2018-15; 2018-24
Edwards Cove                             Brandywine Ridge     2008-5
Eikenberry Street    Northbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Eikenberry Street    Southbound           Allen Lane           2006-2
Ellis Drive          Eastbound            Eikenberry Street    2006-2
Ellis Drive          Westbound            N. State Road 9      2006-2
Elm Drive            Three-way stop       Maple Drive          2006-2
Elm Drive            Westbound            Oak Boulevard        2006-2
Eucalyptus Circle    Westbound            Clove Court          2006-2
Evergreen Drive      Both north and south E. McClarnon Drive   2006-2
Evergreen Drive      Eastbound            N. Blue Road         2006-2
Evergreen Drive      Northbound           Scarlet Oak Drive    2006-2
Evergreen Drive      Northbound           White Birch Lane     2006-2
Fairfield Drive      Southbound           Stonewall Drive      2006-2
Fairglen Court       Westbound            Summerwood Boulevard 2006-2
Fairview Drive       Both north and south Meadow Lane          2006-2
Fairview Drive       Southbound           W. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Fallon Lane          Eastbound            Fields Boulevard     2006-2
Fallon Lane          Southbound           W. McClarnon Drive   2006-2
Fern Street          Northbound           Florence Drive       2006-2
Fields Boulevard     Both north and south W. McClarnon Drive   2006-2
Fields Boulevard     Both north and south W. Muskegeon Drive   2006-2
Fields Boulevard     Both north and south W. New Road          2006-2
Fields Boulevard     Southbound           W. Green Meadows     2006-2
                                          Drive
Fleming Drive        Southbound           McBride Street       2023-15
Florence Drive       Eastbound            Collins Way          2006-2
Florence Drive       Westbound            E. Martindale Drive  2006-2
Florence Drive       Westbound            Layton Lane          2006-2
Foothill Drive       Southbound           New Road             2024-43
Florence Drive       Westbound            N. Martindale Drive  2006-2
Forest Avenue        Westbound            S. State Road 9      2006-2
Forest Glen Drive    Northbound           Westfield Court      2006-2
Forest Glen Drive    Northbound           Westfield Drive      2006-2
Fortville Pike       Southbound           W. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Founders Drive       Eastbound            Van Buren Street     2006-2
Founders Drive       Southbound           Declaration Drive    2006-2
Fox Fire Court                           Montezuma Express    2008-5
                                          Drive
Franklin Court       Southbound           W. 7th Street        2006-2
Franklin Street      Both north and south 300 North            2020-24
Franklin Street      Both north and south Davis Road           2020-24
Franklin Street      Four-way stop        Fourth Street        2020-26
Franklin Street      Four-way stop        New Road             2012-2
Franklin Street      Northbound           W. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Franklin Street      Signalized           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Freedom Court        Northbound           Van Buren Street     2006-2
Fresno Court         Southbound           Meridian Springs     2018-11
                                          Lane
Garfield Drive       Northbound           Polk Avenue          2006-2
Garfield Drive       Westbound            Jefferson Boulevard  2006-2
Gaslite Lane         Westbound            Candlelite Drive     2006-2
Gaslite Lane         Westbound            Coachlite Drive      2006-2
Gateway Lane         Eastbound            Springhurst          2006-2
                                          Boulevard
Gateway Lane         Westbound            Red Bud Way          2006-2
Geronimo Drive       Both north and south Keystone Drive       2014-21; 2016-3
Ginger Circle        Southbound           Jasmine Drive        2006-2
Gondola Run          Northbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Graham Court         Westbound            Springhurst          2006-2
                                          Boulevard
Grandison Road       Both east and west   Oak Boulevard        2006-2
Grandison Road       Eastbound            Maple Drive          2006-2
Grandison Road       Four-way stop        N. Noble Street      2006-2
Grandison Road       Westbound            N. Michigan Street   2006-2
Grant Street         Both east and west   N. Pratt Street      2006-2
Grant Street         Both east and west   N. Spring Street     2006-2
Grant Street         Eastbound            Baldwin Street       2006-2
Grant Street         Eastbound            East Street          2019-16
Grayson Drive        Northbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Grayson Drive        Westbound            Buttonwood Court     2006-2
Green Meadows Drive  Signalized           N. State Road 9      2006-2
Greenbrook Court     Eastbound            Greenbrook Drive     2006-2
Greenbrook Drive     Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
Greenfield Drive     Both north and south Meadow Lane          2006-2
Greenfield Drive     Southbound           W. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Greenhills Court     Northbound           Greenhills Road      2006-2
Greenhills Road      Southbound           Whispering Trail     2006-2
Greenhills Road      Westbound            Sherwood Drive       2006-2
Grinstone Way        Northbound           Fairfield Circle     2006-2
Grindstone Way       Northbound           Fairfield Drive      2006-2
Gristmill Drive      Eastbound            Rambling Road        2006-2
Gristmill Drive      Westbound            Winding Creek Lane   2006-2
Grove Street         Eastbound            Center Street        2006-2
Grove Street         Eastbound            S. Pennsylvania      2006-2
                                          Street
Grove Street         Westbound            S. Riley Avenue      2006-2
Grove Street         Westbound            West Street          2006-2
Gunstra Lane         Eastbound            Preston Drive        2006-2
Harding Avenue       Eastbound            Jefferson Boulevard  2006-2
Harding Avenue       Southbound           Winfield Park Drive  2006-2
Harrison Street      Both north and south W. North Street      2006-2
Harrison Street      Both north and south W. 5th Street        2006-2
Harrison Street      Both north and south W. 4th Street        2006-2
Harrison Street      Both north and south W. 6th Street        2006-2
Harrison Street      Both north and south W. Walnut Street     2006-2
Harrison Street      Both north and south W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Harrison Street      Northbound           W. 7th Street        2006-2
Hastings Boulevard   Southbound           W. New Road          2006-2
Hawthorne Avenue     Westbound            N. Noble Street      2006-2
Haywood Drive        Northbound           Silver Spoon Drive   2018-11
Heartwood Hill       Southbound           Winding Creek Lane   2006-2
Hedge Court          Northbound           E. McClarnon Drive   2006-2
Hendricks Street     Both north and south W. 4th Street        2006-2
Hendricks Street     Both north and south W. North Street      2006-2
Hendricks Street     Both north and south W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Hendricks Street     Both north and south W. Walnut Street     2006-2
Hendricks Street     Northbound           W. 5th Street        2006-2
Hendricks Street     Southbound           W. South Street      2006-2
Hickory Lane         Northbound           Bowman Drive         2006-2
Hickory Lane         Southbound           White Oak Drive      2006-2
Hidden Glen Drive    Eastbound            Bowman Drive         2006-2
Hillcrest Lane       Northbound           Hawthorne Lane       2006-2
Hillcrest Lane       Northbound           W. Park Avenue       2006-2
Honeysuckle Lane     Northbound           Sandalwood Drive     2006-2
Hough Street         Northbound           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Hough Street         Southbound           W. South Street      2006-2
Howard Street        Southbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Illinois Street      Eastbound            N. State Road 9      2006-2
Independence Road    Westbound            Liberty Lane         2006-2
Independence Road    Southbound           Winfield Park Drive  2006-2
Indiana Street       Southbound           W. 5th Street        2006-2
Indiana Street       Northbound           W. 7th Street        2006-2
Indigo Drive         Northbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Ironwood Road        Westbound            Blue Road            2024-43
James Boulevard      Northbound           E. New Road          2006-2
Jasmine Drive        Eastbound            N. Blue Road         2006-2
Jasmine Drive        Westbound            N. Mill Run          2006-2
                                          Boulevard
Jason Road           Northbound           W. Green Meadows     2006-2
                                          Drive
Jaybird Drive        Four-way stop        Bobtail Drive        2014-21
Jaybird Drive        Westbound            Montezuma Express    2006-2
                                          Dr.
Jaycie Phelps Road   Northbound           McKenzie Road        2023-16
Jefferson Boulevard  Southbound           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Johnson Circle       Southbound           Morningside Court    2006-2
Johnson Circle       Southbound           Morningside Drive    2006-2
Justice Drive        Southbound           Founders Drive       2006-2
Justice Drive        Westbound            N. Meridian Road     2006-2
Kara Court           Northbound           Tague Street         2006-2
Keen Court           Eastbound            Murdoch Drive        2006-2
Keller Drive         Eastbound            Chapman Drive        2006-2
Keller Drive         Westbound            S. State Road 9      2006-2
Keystone Drive       Eastbound            Jaycie Phelps Drive  2014-21
Keystone Drive       Westbound            Prospector Drive     2014-21
King Maple Drive     Eastbound            Juniper Lane         2006-2
King Maple Drive     Westbound            Bayberry Drive       2006-2
Kingen Drive         Both north and south W. Muskegeon Drive   2006-2
Kintner Avenue       Northbound           Fleming Drive        2023-15
Kirkpatrick Place    Westbound            Brandywine Parkway   2006-2
Lake Drive           Westbound            N. Brandywine Street 2006-2
Lakeview Court North Southbound           Lakeview Drive       2006-2
Lakeview Court South Northbound           Lakeview Drive       2006-2
Lakeview Drive       Eastbound            Apple Street         2006-2
Lakeview Drive       Westbound            Waterview Boulevard  2006-2
Lamplite Court       Eastbound            Candlelite Drive     2006-2
Lantern Court        Westbound            Candlelite Drive     2006-2
Lavender Drive       Eastbound            N. Blue Road         2006-2
Lavender Drive       Westbound            Jasmine Drive        2006-2
Layton Lane          Northbound           Collins Way          2006-2
Layton Lane          Southbound           E. Martindale Drive  2006-2
Layton Lane          Southbound           Florence Drive       2006-2
Layton Lane          Southbound           N. Martindale Drive  2006-2
Legacy Lane          Southbound           Rocky Road           2020-05
Lemon Grass Court    Eastbound            Jasmine Drive        2006-2
Leonanie Court       Westbound            Dream March Drive    2006-2
Lexington Trail      Both north and south Boots Trail          2020-24
Lexington Trail      Eastbound            Arlington Drive      2006-2
Liberty Lane         Northbound           Justice Drive        2006-2
Liberty Lane         Westbound            N. Meridian Road     2006-2
Liberty View Court   Eastbound            Liberty Lane         2006-2
Lincoln Street       Both east and west   Baldwin Street       2009-6
Linden Lane          Southbound           Tupelo Drive         2024-07
Long Leaf Lane       Southbound           Rambling Road        2006-2
Longfellow Lane      Eastbound            S. State Road 9      2006-2
Lullaby Boulevard    Eastbound            Dream March Drive    2006-2
Lullaby Boulevard    Southbound           Bear Story Boulevard 2006-2
Lullaby Court        Westbound            Dream March Drive    2006-2
Madison Drive        Eastbound            Winfield Street      2006-2
Madison Drive        Northbound           Polk Avenue          2006-2
Madison Drive        Westbound            Jefferson Boulevard  2006-2
Magnolia Drive       Northbound           Cypress Drive        2006-2
Magnolia Drive       Southbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Maple Drive          Northbound           W. Michigan Street   2006-2
Maple Drive          Southbound           W. Park Avenue       2006-2
Maple Drive          Three-way stop       W. Boyd Avenue       2006-2
Marble Lane          Northbound           Grindstone Court     2006-2
Marble Lane          Northbound           Grindstone Way       2006-2
Marble Lane          Southbound           Stonewall Court      2006-2
                                          (Circle)
Marble Lane          Southbound           Stonewall Drive      2006-2
Marsh Aster Drive    Eastbound            Center Street        2006-2
Marywood Drive       Eastbound            Apple Street         2006-2
McBride Street       Eastbound            Franklin Street      2023-15
McClarnon Drive      Signalized           N. State Road 9      2006-2
McClellan Road       Eastbound            Maple Drive          2006-2
McClellan Road       Westbound            Oak Boulevard        2006-2
McCully Street       Northbound           W. Osage Street      2006-2
McKenzie Road        Signalized           N. State Road 9      2006-2
McKenzie Road        East and west        Jaycie Phelps Road   2023-16
Meadow Lane Court    Eastbound            Meadow Lane          2006-2
Meek Street          Four-way stop        E. Osage Street      2006-2
Meek Street          Northbound           E. South Street      2006-2
Meek Street          Southbound           Forest Avenue        2006-2
Melody Lane          Both north and south E. Green Meadows     2006-2
                                          Drive
Melody Lane          Both north and south E. McClarnon Drive   2006-2
Melody Lane          Both north and south E. Muskegeon Drive   2006-2
Melody Lane          Northbound           E. New Road          2006-2
Melody Lane          Southbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Meridian Road        Signalized           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Michigan Street      Eastbound            N. State Road 9      2006-2
Michigan Street      Four-way stop        Oak Boulevard        2006-2
Michigan Street      Southbound           W. Boyd Avenue       2006-2
Mill Run Boulevard   Westbound            Apple Street         2006-2
Mill Street          Eastbound            S. Pennsylvania      2006-2
                                          Street
Mill Street          Westbound            S. Riley Avenue      2006-2
Mimosa Court         Westbound            Magnolia Drive       2006-2
Monroe Street        Both north and south Polk Avenue          2006-2
Monroe Street        Both north and south W. 4th Street        2006-2
Monroe Street        Four-way stop        W. North Street      2006-2
Monroe Street        Northbound           Winfield Street      2006-2
Monroe Street        Northbound           W. 7th Street        2006-2
Monroe Street        Southbound           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Montezuma Express    Both north and south Silver Spoon Drive   2018-11
Drive
Montezuma Express    Eastbound            Jaycie Phelps Road   2020-05
Drive
Montezuma Express    Northbound           Gondola Run          2006-2
Drive
Montgomery Court     Eastbound            Kingen Drive         2006-2
Monticello Drive     Eastbound            Van Buren Street     2006-2
Monticello Drive     Westbound            Old Glory Drive      2006-2
Morristown Pike      Southbound           Davis Road           2006-2
Mount Street         Both north and south W. Osage Street      2006-2
Mount Street         Both north and south W. Pierson Street    2006-2
Mount Street         Southbound           Tague Street         2006-2
Mozart Drive                             Montezuma Express    2008-5
                                          Drive
Mozart Drive         Eastbound            Prospector Drive     2014-21
Mozart Drive         Southbound           Montezuma Drive      2014-21
Mulberry Court       Southbound           Evergreen Drive      2006-2
Murdoch Drive        Northbound           Webb Drive           2006-2
Murdoch Drive        Southbound           W. Muskegeon Drive   2006-2
Muskegeon Drive      Signalized           N. State Road 9      2006-2
Muskegeon Lane       Northbound           W. Muskegeon Drive   2006-2
New Road             Signalized           N. State Road 9      2006-2
Noble Street         Both north and south W. U.S. 40           2006-2
N. Apple Blossom     Northbound           E. Apple Lake Drive  2006-2
Lane
N. Apple Street      Four-way stop        E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
N. Baldwin Street    Both north and south E. North Street      2006-2
N. Blue Road         Four-way stop        E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
N. Brandywine Street Northbound           Robin Lane           2006-2
N. Brandywine Street Southbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
N. Broadway Street   Northbound           W. New Road          2006-2
N. Broadway Street   Roundabout           W. McKenzie Road     2006-2
N. East Street       Both north and south E. North Street      2006-2
N. East Street       Both north and south E. Park Avenue       2006-2
N. East Street       Southbound           Grant Street         2006-2
N. Franklin Street   Four-way stop        W. 7th Street        2006-2
N. Howard Street     Northbound           E. Lincoln Street    2006-2
N. Martindale Drive  Northbound           Florence Drive       2006-2
N. Martindale Drive  Northbound           E. Martindale Drive  2006-2
N. Martindale Drive  Northbound           Layton Lane          2006-2
N. Martindale Drive  Southbound           E. New Road          2006-2
N. Meridian Road     Northbound           W. CR 100 North      2006-2
N. Meridian Road     Northbound           W. McKenzie Road     2006-2
N. Michigan Street   Both east and west   N. School Street     2006-2
N. Noble Street      Northbound           Michigan Street      2006-2
N. Noble Street      Northbound           W. Park Avenue       2006-2
N. Noble Street      Southbound           W. Boyd Avenue       2006-2
N. Pennsylvania      Northbound           W. 5th Street        2006-2
Street
N. Pratt Street      Four-way stop        E. North Street      2006-2
N. School Street     Both north and south Grandison Road       2006-2
N. School Street     Both north and south W. 6th Street        2006-2
N. School Street     Both north and south W. U.S. 40           2006-2
N. School Street     Four-way stop        W. North Street      2006-2
N. School Street     Four-way stop        W. 7th Street        2006-2
N. School Street     Northbound           W. McKenzie Road     2006-2
N. School Street     Northbound           W. Park Avenue       2006-2
N. School Street     Southbound           W. Boyd Avenue       2006-2
N. Spring Street     Four-way stop        E. North Street      2006-2
North Street         Both east and west   Franklin Street      2020-26
North Street         Signalized           N. State Road 9      2006-2
N. Swope Street      Both north and south Douglas Street       2006-2
N. Swope Street      Both north and south E. Lincoln Street    2006-2
N. Swope Street      Both north and south E. North Street      2006-2
N. Swope Street      Both north and south Grant Street         2006-2
N. Wood Street       Both north and south E. North Street      2006-2
N. Wood Street       Both north and south Grant Street         2006-2
NW Bay Drive         Northbound           Crossing Lane        2006-2
Oak Boulevard        Northbound           W. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Oak Boulevard        Southbound           W. Park Avenue       2006-2
Oak Court            Eastbound            Oak Boulevard        2006-2
Oakswept Way         Northbound           Dove Trail           2024-16
Oakswept Way         Southbound           Dove Trail           2024-16
Oakswept Way         Eastbound            Windswept Road       2024-16
Ohio Street          Eastbound            N. State Road 9      2006-2
Old Glory Circle     Northbound           Declaration Drive    2006-2
Old Glory Drive      Northbound           Founders Drive       2006-2
Old Glory Drive      Southbound           Declaration Drive    2006-2
Olive Grove Way      Northbound           Ironwood Road        2024-43
Orphan Annie Drive   Northbound           W. Davis Road        2006-2
Orphan Annie Drive   Southbound           Hidden Glen Drive    2006-2
Osage Street         Both east and west   S. State Road 9      2006-2
Palm Court           Southbound           Evergreen Drive      2006-2
Palmetto Way         Eastbound            Linden Lane          2024-07
Palmetto Way         Westbound            Blue Road            2024-07
Pamona Court         Eastbound            Dream March Drive    2006-2
Paragon Court        Northbound           Paragon Way          2006-2
Paragon Way          Westbound            Fields Boulevard     2006-2
Park Avenue          Both east and west   N. State Road 9      2006-2
Parkside Circle                          Brandywine Ridge     2008-5
Patriot Court        Eastbound            Liberty Lane         2006-2
Pauls Court          Southbound           Pauls Drive          2006-2
Pauls Drive          Eastbound            Apple Street         2006-2
Pauls Drive          Westbound            Sherwood Drive       2006-2
Paymaster Drive      Northbound           Montezuma Express    2020-05
                                          Drive
Pennsylvania Street  Signalized           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Penny Lane           Northbound           Hidden Glen Drive    2006-2
Pepermint Court      Northbound           Jasmine Drive        2006-2
Persimmon Circle     Westbound            Magnolia Drive       2006-2
Pierson Street       Both east and west   S. State Road 9      2006-2
Pine Wood Drive      Westbound            Rocky Road           2018-14
Pippen Court         Southbound           Pippen Drive         2006-2
Pippen Drive         Northbound           Keller Drive         2006-2
Pippen Drive         Southbound           Chapman Drive        2006-2
Pixy Court           Westbound            Orphan Annie Drive   2006-2
Plaza Drive          Westbound            Melody Lane          2006-2
Plumwood Street      Eastbound            Oakswept Way         2024-16
Polk Avenue          Eastbound            Monroe Street        2006-2
Pope Lane            Southbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Prairie Meadows      Southbound           U.S. 40 (Main        2011-5
                                          Street)
Prairieview Lane     Southbound           Sweetwater Lane      2006-2
Pratt Street         Southbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Presidential Court   Southbound           Winfield Park Drive  2006-2
Preston Drive        Eastbound            Fields Boulevard     2006-2
Preston Drive        Northbound           W. McClarnon Drive   2006-2
Progress Parkway     Southbound           Opportunity Parkway  2018-14
                                          Roundabout
Prospector Drive     Both north and south Keystone Drive       2016-3
Prospector Drive     Northbound           Jaybird Drive        2014-21
Prospector Drive     Southbound           Montezuma Drive      2014-21
Punkin Court         Westbound            Orphan Annie Drive   2006-2
Raintree Drive       Northbound           Grayson Drive        2006-2
(Road)
Raintree Drive       Southbound           Morningside Drive    2006-2
(Road)
Red Bud Way          Southbound           Springhurst          2006-2
                                          Boulevard
Redbud Lane          Northbound           W. Park Avenue       2006-2
Redbud Lane          Southbound           Sycamore Lane        2006-2
Redwood Drive        Eastbound            Juniper Lane         2006-2
Redwood Drive        Southbound           E. McClarnon Drive   2006-2
Reed Court           Eastbound            Center Street        2006-2
Reed Drive           Westbound            Center Street        2006-2
Ricks Avenue         Eastbound            Eikenberry Street    2006-2
Ricks Avenue         Westbound            Allen Lane           2006-2
River Birch Drive    Southbound           King Maple Drive     2006-2
Riverview Drive      Northbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Riverview Drive      Northbound           Riverview Court      2006-2
Riverview Drive      Southbound           Lakeview Drive       2006-2
Riverview Drive      Southbound           Waterview Boulevard  2006-2
Robin Lane           Eastbound            N. Brandywine Street 2006-2
Rolling Ridge Drive  Southbound           Bluestone Drive      2006-2
Roosevelt Drive      Both east and west   Harding Avenue       2006-2
Roosevelt Drive      Both east and west   Tyler Avenue         2006-2
Roosevelt Drive      Eastbound            Jefferson Boulevard  2006-2
Roosevelt Drive      Westbound            Van Buren Street     2006-2
Rosemary Circle      Westbound            Jasmine Drive        2006-2
Rosemary Court       Eastbound            Jasmine Drive        2006-2
Royal Drive          Southbound           W. New Road          2006-2
Runnymeade Drive     Northbound           Breakwater Drive     2006-2
Runnymeade Drive     Northbound           Indigo Court         2006-2
Runnymeade Drive     Southbound           Indigo Drive         2006-2
Sage Court           Eastbound            S. Noble Street      2006-2
Sandalwood Drive     Eastbound            Center Street        2006-2
Sandy Drive          Northbound           Summerwood Boulevard 2018-11
Sante Fe Drive       Westbound            Gondola Run          2006-2
Sawdust Trail        Eastbound            Longleaf Lane        2020-05
Sawdust Trail        Southbound           Rambling Road        2006-2
Scarlet Oak Drive    Northbound           Redwood Drive        2006-2
School Marm Drive                        Montezuma Express    2008-5
                                          Drive
School Marm Drive                        Mozart Drive         2008-5
School Street        Both north and south North Street         2020-26
Sedgewick Drive      Westbound            Center Street        2006-2
Shade Treet Court    Westbound            S. East Street       2006-2
Sheets Court         Westbound            Kingen Drive         2006-2
Shepard Court        Eastbound            Chapman Drive        2006-2
Sherwood Court       Westbound            Sherwood Drive       2006-2
Sherwood Drive       Southbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Silver Spoon Drive   Both east and west   Montezuma Express    2018-11
                                          Drive
Simms Lane           Northbound           McBride Street       2023-15
Songbird Court       Southbound           Bluebird Drive       2006-2
S. East Street       Northbound           Forest Avenue        2006-2
S. Harrison Street   Northbound           W. South Street      2006-2
S. Noble Street      Northbound           W. Osage Street      2006-2
S. Noble Street      Southbound           Tague Street         2006-2
S. Pennsylvania      Both north and south Tague Street         2006-2
Street
S. Riley Avenue      Northbound           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
S. Riley Avenue      Three-way stop       Tague Street         2006-2
S. Sugar Gum Trail   Eastbound            S. Stoney Trail      2006-2
S. Sugar Gum Trail   Southbound           Weber Road           2006-2
S. Swope Street      Northbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Spring Dipper Drive  Eastbound            Geronimo Drive       2006-2
Spring Dipper Drive  Westbound            Gondola Run          2006-2
Spring Meadow Court  Eastbound            Springhurst          2006-2
                                          Boulevard
Spring Street        Both north and south E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Springdale Lane      Southbound           Median Springs Lake  2018-11
Springhurst          Northbound           W. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Boulevard
Springside Court     Northbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
State Road 9         Signalized           U.S. 40              2006-2
Steele Ford Road     Westbound            S. State Road 9      2006-2
Sterling Circle      Westbound            Red Bud Way          2006-2
Stevens Court        Eastbound            N. Noble Street      2006-2
Stonemason Road      Northbound           Creston Meadow       2006-2
Stonemason Road      Southbound           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Stonewall Drive      Westbound            N. Blue Road         2006-2
Streamside Drive     Northbound           Breakwater Drive     2006-2
Streamside Drive     Northbound           Runnymeade Drive     2006-2
Streamside Drive     Westbound            Runnymeade Court     2006-2
Summer Shade Court   Westbound            Penny Lane           2006-2
Summerwood Boulevard Northbound           E. McKenzie Road     2006-2
Sweetheart Court     Westbound            Orphan Annie Drive   2006-2
Sweetwater Lane      Eastbound            Prairieview Lane     2006-2
Sweetwater Lane      Eastbound            Woodstream Drive     2006-2
Sweetwater Lane      Westbound            N. Blue Road         2006-2
Tague Street         Eastbound            S. State Road 9      2006-2
Tague Street         Westbound            S. Franklin Street   2006-2
Terra Cotta Drive    Eastbound            Thunderwood Drive    2020-05
Terra Cotta Drive    Westbound            Paymaster Drive      2020-05
Thistle Wood Drive   Northbound           Longleaf Lane        2018-14
Thistle Wood Drive   Westbound            Rambling Road        2006-2
Thompson Avenue      Northbound           Dewey Avenue         2006-2
Thunderwood Drive    Northbound           Montezuma Express    2020-05
                                          Drive
Tracewood Bend       Northbound           Montezuma Express    2020-05
                                          Drive
Tupelo Drive         Westbound            Blue Road            2024-07
Tyler Avenue         Southbound           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Van Buren Street     Both north and south Meridian Springs     2018-11
                                          Lane
Van Buren Street     Southbound           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Villanoya Drive      Northbound           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Villanoya Drive      Southbound           Dewey Avenue         2006-2
Virginia Court       Westbound            Center Street        2006-2
W. Boyd Avenue       Eastbound            Oak Boulevard        2006-2
W. Boyd Avenue       Signalized           N. State Road 9      2006-2
W. Boyd Avenue       Westbound            N. Broadway Street   2006-2
W. CR 100 North      Eastbound            N. Meridian Road     2006-2
W. Davis Road        Westbound            S. Franklin Street   2006-2
W. Green Meadows     Westbound            N. Broadway Street   2006-2
Drive
W. McClarnon Drive   Westbound            N. Broadway Street   2006-2
W. McKenzie Road     Westbound            Fortville Pike       2006-2
W. McKenzie Road     Westbound            N. Franklin Street   2006-2
W. McKenzie Road     Westbound            N. Meridian Road     2006-2
W. Muskegeon Drive   Southbound           N. Broadway Street   2006-2
W. New Road          Both east and west   Fortville Pike       2006-2
W. New Road          Westbound            N. Meridian Road     2006-2
W. Ninth Street      Westbound            N. Broadway Street   2006-2
W. North Street      Both east and west   Noble Street         2020-26
W. North Street      Both east and west   N. Broadway Street   2006-2
W. North Street      Four-way stop        N. Franklin Street   2006-2
W. North Street      Four-way stop        N. Pennsylvania      2006-2
                                          Street
W. North Street      Northbound           Garfield Drive       2006-2
W. Osage Street      Both east and west   S. Pennsylvania      2006-2
                                          Street
W. Osage Street      Both east and west   S. Riley Avenue      2006-2
W. Osage Street      Westbound            S. Franklin Street   2006-2
W. Park Avenue       Signalized           N. Broadway Street   2006-2
W. Pierson Street    Both east and west   S. Noble Street      2006-2
W. Pierson Street    Both east and west   S. Pennsylvania      2006-2
                                          Street
W. Pierson Street    Both east and west   S. Riley Avenue      2006-2
W. Pierson Street    Eastbound            Center Street        2006-2
W. Pierson Street    Westbound            West Street          2006-2
W. South Street      Both east and west   S. Franklin Street   2006-2
W. South Street      Both east and west   S. Pennsylvania      2006-2
                                          Street
W. South Street      Both east and west   S. Riley Avenue      2006-2
W. South Street      Eastbound            Center Street        2006-2
W. South Street      Eastbound            S. State Road 9      2006-2
W. South Street      Westbound            S. Harrison Street   2006-2
W. South Street      Westbound            S. Noble Street      2006-2
W. Walnut Street     Both east and west   N. Franklin Street   2006-2
W. Walnut Street     Both east and west   N. Noble Street      2006-2
W. Walnut Street     Both east and west   N. Pennsylvania      2006-2
                                          Street
W. Walnut Street     Eastbound            N. Broadway Street   2006-2
W. Walnut Street     Eastbound            N. State Road 9      2006-2
Walker Street        Both east and west   N. East Street       2006-2
Walker Street        Both east and west   N. Spring Street     2006-2
Walker Street        Eastbound            N. Swope Street      2006-2
Walker Street        Westbound            N. State Road 9      2006-2
Walnut Street        Westbound            Monroe Street        2006-2
Walnut Street        Westbound            N. School Street     2006-2
Walnut Trace         Southbound           E. McClarnon Drive   2006-2
Warren Court         Southbound           Warren Way           2006-2
Warren Way           Westbound            Fields Boulevard     2006-2
Weber Road           Eastbound            S. State Road 9      2006-2
W. 4th Street        Both east and west   N. Broadway Street   2006-2
W. 4th Street        Both east and west   N. Franklin Street   2006-2
W. 4th Street        Both east and west   N. Noble Street      2006-2
W. 4th Street        Both east and west   N. Pennsylvania      2006-2
                                          Street
W. 4th Street        Eastbound            N. State Road 9      2006-2
W. 4th Street        Four-way stop        N. School Street     2006-2
W. 4th Street        Westbound            Monroe Street        2006-2
W. 5th Street        Both east and west   N. Broadway Street   2006-2
W. 5th Street        Both east and west   N. Franklin Street   2006-2
W. 5th Street        Both east and west   N. Noble Street      2006-2
W. 5th Street        Both east and west   N. School Street     2006-2
W. 5th Street        Eastbound            N. State Road 9      2006-2
W. 5th Street        Westbound            Monroe Street        2006-2
W. 6th Street        Both east and west   Indiana Street       2006-2
W. 6th Street        Both east and west   N. Broadway Street   2006-2
W. 6th Street        Both east and west   N. Franklin Street   2006-2
W. 6th Street        Eastbound            N. Noble Street      2006-2
W. 6th Street        Westbound            Monroe Street        2006-2
W. 7th Street        Both east and west   N. Broadway Street   2006-2
W. 7th Street        Eastbound            N. Noble Street      2006-2
West Street          Northbound           W. Osage Street      2006-2
West Street          Southbound           Tague Street         2006-2
Westfield Drive      Eastbound            Summerwood Boulevard 2006-2
Whispering Trail     Eastbound            Apple Street         2006-2
Whispering Trail     Westbound            Sherwood Drive       2006-2
Whisperwood Trail    Westbound            Greenbrook Drive     2006-2
White Blossom Lane   Eastbound            Arthur Court         2006-2
White Blossom Lane   Eastbound            Miller Court         2006-2
White Blossom Lane   Westbound            Springhurst          2006-2
                                          Boulevard
White Oak Drive      Eastbound            S. State Road 9      2006-2
William Way          Southbound           E. Martindale Drive  2006-2
William Way          Northbound           Barrett Drive        2006-2
Willow Road          Eastbound            Maple Drive          2006-2
Willow Road          Westbound            Oak Boulevard        2006-2
Willowview Court     Westbound            Woodstream Drive     2006-2
Willowview Lane      Eastbound            Woodstream Drive     2006-2
Willowview Lane      Westbound            Brookstone Drive     2006-2
Wilson Street        Both north and south W. 5th Street        2006-2
Wilson Street        Both north and south W. 7th Street        2006-2
Wilson Street        Both north and south W. 6th Street        2006-2
Wilson Street        Both north and south W. Park Avenue       2006-2
Wilson Street        Both north and south W. North Street      2006-2
Wilson Street        Northbound           Ninth Street         2006-2
Wilson Street        Southbound           W. 4th Street        2006-2
Winding Creek Lane   Westbound            Windswept Road       2006-2
Windswept Road       Northbound           W. CR 100 North      2006-2
Windswept Road       Southbound           W. U.S. 40           2006-2
Winfield Park Circle Southbound           Winfield Park Drive  2006-2
Winfield Park Court  Southbound           Winfield Park Drive  2006-2
Winfield Park Drive  Both east and west   Roosevelt Drive      2006-2
Winfield Park Drive  Eastbound            Jefferson Boulevard  2006-2
Winfield Park Drive  Four-way stop        Van Buren Street     2006-2
Winfield Park Drive  Westbound            N. Meridian Road     2006-2
Winfield Street      Westbound            Jefferson Boulevard  2006-2
Wood Street          Both north and south Douglas Street       2006-2
Wood Street          Southbound           E. U.S. 40           2006-2
Worchester Way       Westbound            Lexington Trail      2006-2
Worchester Way       Westbound            Arlington Drive      2006-2
I-70-104-Ramps A & B Signalized           N. State Road 9      2006-2
I-70-104-Ramps C & D Signalized           N. State Road 9      2006-2
 
   The Street Department, in conjunction with the Traffic Safety Committee,
shall erect the necessary traffic-control signs to carry out the provisions of
this schedule.
(Ord. 2020-26, passed 8-26-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any of the following
designated streets or alleys in any direction other than as shown below:
Street/Alley Between Direction of Movement Ord. No. Date
Street/Alley         Between              Direction of Ord. No. Date
                                          Movement
Alley east of Meek   Osage Street and
Street               Penn Railroad right- Eastward     2005-15  9-13-05
                     of-way
Alley east of Meek   Running south from
Street               Penn Railroad to     Southward    2005-15  9-13-05
                     Osage Street
Alley running east
and west between     Mount Street and     Westward     2005-15  9-13-05
South and Pennsy     Pennsylvania Street
Trail
Alley running        State Road 9 (State
parallel to and      Street) and American Eastward     2005-15  9-13-05
between Pierson and  Legion Place
Osage Streets
Alleys between E.    State Road 9 (State
North Street and     Street) and East     Eastward     2005-15  9-13-05
Grant Street         Street
American Legion      US 40 (Main Street)  Southward    2005-15  9-13-05
Place                and South Street
East Street          Grant Street and     Southward    2005-15  9-13-05
                     North Street
First alley south of State Road 9 (State
South Street         Street) and Meek     Westward     2005-15  9-13-05
                     Street
                     Pennsylvania Street
Gooding Street       and State Road 9     Westward     2005-15  9-13-05
                     (State Street)
                     State Road 9 (State
Grant Street         Street) and North    Eastward     2005-15  9-13-05
                     Street
                     US 40 (Main Street)
Hinchman Street      and first alley      Northward    2005-15  9-13-05
                     north of US 40 (Main
                     Street)
                     US 40 (Main Street)
Mount Street         and first alley      Southward    2005-15  9-13-05
                     south of US 40 (Main
                     Street)
Mount Street         US 40 (Main Street)  Northward    2005-15  9-13-05
                     and North Street
                     Maple Drive and
Park Avenue          State Road 9 (State  Eastward     2005-15  9-13-05
                     Street)
Second alley south   State Road 9 (State
of South Street      Street) and American Eastward     2005-15  9-13-05
                     Legion Place
South Street         Vine Street and      Eastward     2005-15  9-13-05
                     Brandywine Street
Swope Street         US 40 (Main Street)  Northward    2005-15  9-13-05
                     and North Street
Vine Street          US 40 (Main Street)  Southward    2005-15  9-13-05
                     and South Street
Alleys between US 40 State Road 9 (State
(Main Street) and    Street) and          Westward     2005-15  9-13-05
Walnut Street        Pennsylvania Street
 
(Ord. 2018-15, passed 10-10-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   When appropriate signs are erected on a street or alley, the following speed
restrictions shall be observed:
Ord. No. Street Speed (mph)
Ord. No. Street                                                       Speed
                                                                      (mph)
1970-35  E. McKenzie Road between North “A” Street and Eikenberry 30
         Drive
1970-35  Alley starting at Fifth St. between N. State Street and      20
         Maple Drive and running to W. McKenzie Road
1970-35  North “A” Street between Main Street and E. McKenzie Road30
1973-3   Candlelite Drive                                             20
         Bowman Drive
         Hickory Lane
1973-5   White Oak Lane                                               20
         Bruner Drive
         Bittersweet Drive
         Bowman Court
         Candlelite Drive
1975-1   Gaslite Lane                                                 20
         Coachlite Drive
         Green Meadows Drive
         Riverview Drive
         Waterview Boulevard
1975-5   Lakeview Drive
         Lakeview Court North
         Lakeview Court South
         Riverview Court
1975-8   Tague Street between Center Street and Noble Street          20
         Center Street
1975-8   Grove Street                                                 20
         Pierson Street
1976-1   Broadway                                                     30
1976-1   McKenzie Road between Broadway and Franklin Street           40
1976-3   Alley between Fifth Street and McKenzie Road                 15
1977-25  Jefferson Boulevard between U.S. Highway 40 and Harding      30
         Street
1977-25  Chapman Drive                                                20
1981-9   Apple Street north of McKenzie Street                        30
1986-20  Road 200N                                                    40
1986-20  McKenzie Road between Franklin Road and Broadway             30
1988-14  Broadway between McKenzie Road and New Road (CR 200N)        45
1988-22  Green Meadows Drive between State Road 9 and North Broadway  30
1990-10  All traffic through Brandywine Park                          15
1991-1   McKenzie Road between Apple Street and Blue Road (County     45
         Road 300E)
1991-1   Blue Road (County Rd. 100E) between U.S. Hwy. 40 and         45
         McKenzie Road
1991-1   Davis Road (County Road 1005) between State Road 9 and the   35
         east boundary of Brandywine Park
1992-6   All traffic on Winfield Park Drive                           30
1992-6   All traffic on Dream March Drive                             30
1992-6   All traffic on Bear Story Court                              30
1992-6   All traffic on Walnut Trace                                  30
1992-6A  All traffic on Muskego Drive                                 40
         For eastbound and westbound traffic on Muskegon Drive from
2024-07  its intersection with State Road 9 to its intersection with  30
         Broadway Street
1992-6   All traffic on Fields Boulevard                              40
1994-7A  All traffic on West Street                                   20
1994-7   All traffic on New Road (formerly County Road 200N)          40
1994-7   All traffic on Hastings Boulevard                            40
1994-7   All traffic on Anderson Boulevard                            40
1998-9   All traffic on McKenzie Road                                 30
         All traffic on McKenzie Road between Apple Street and the
2001-2   easternmost corporate boundary (being approximately 2,078    40
         feet feet east of Blue Road)
2001-2   All traffic on Blue Road between McKenzie Road and County    40
         Road 200N/New Road
2001-2   Blue Road between McKenzie Road and McClarnon Drive from 7:  20
         00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday
2001-6   All traffic on Tague Street between Center Street and Noble  30
         Street
2001-13  New Road between Fortville Pike and Meridian Road            40
2002-31  All traffic traveling on Dorothy Drive, Dale Court, Copeland 30
         Farms Drive, and Muskegon Drive west of Broadway
2005-15  All traffic traveling on County Road 400 East between Main   45
         Street and McKenzie Road
2005-15  All traffic traveling on New Road between Apple Street and   45
         Blue Road
2005-15  All traffic traveling on Apple Street between New Road and   30
         McKenzie Road
2005-15  All traffic traveling on New Road between Apple Street and   40
         Fortville Pike Road
2007-16  All traffic traveling on Windswept Road between Main Street  40
         (U.S. Highway 40) and McKenzie Road (County Road 100 North)
2013-15  All traffic traveling on Blue Road between Main Street (U.S. 40
         Highway 40) and McKenzie Road (County Road 100 North)
2014-5   All traffic traveling on County Road 300 North between State 55
         Street (State Road 9) to a point 1,300 feet east thereof
2014-5   All traffic traveling on County Road 300 North between State 55
         Street (State Road 9) and Franklin Street (Fortville Pike)
         All traffic traveling on County Road 300 North between
2014-5   Franklin Street (Fortville Pike) to a point 1,400 feet west  50
         thereof
2014-5   All traffic traveling on New Road (200 North) between Blue   45
         Road to a point 1,400 feet east thereof
2014-5   All traffic traveling on Meridian Road between Main Street   45
         (US Highway 40) and New Road
         All traffic traveling on Weber Road (200 South) between
2014-5   State Street (State Road 9) to a point 4,000 feet west       45
         thereof
2014-5   All traffic traveling on County Road 400 East between Main   55
         Street (US Highway 40) to a point 1,300 feet south thereof
2014-5   All traffic traveling on County Road 150 West between Main   55
         Street (US Highway 40) and County Road 100 North
2014-21  All traffic traveling on McKenzie Road between Franklin Road 50
         and Meridian Road
         Mozart Drive
         Schoolmarm Drive
         Bobtail Drive
         Prospector Drive
2014-21  Geronimo Drive                                               30
         Jaybird Drive
         Gondola Run
         Santa Fe Drive
         Spring Dipper Drive
2015-11  All traffic traveling on Meridian Road between Davis Road    50
         and Main Street (US Highway 40)
2015-11  All traffic traveling on Davis Road between Franklin Street  55
         and Meridian Road
2015-11  All traffic traveling on McKenzie Road between Meridian Road 50
         and Windswept Road
2018-14  Progress Parkway northbound and southbound                   30
2018-14  Opportunity Parkway eastbound and westbound                  30
2020-28  All traffic traveling on McKenzie Road between Franklin      45
         Street and Windswept Road
                                                                      10 mph
                                                                      less than
2023-09  All school zones                                             the
                                                                      posted
                                                                      speed
                                                                      limit
2024-21  All traffic traveling on Fields Boulevard between Green      30
         Meadows Drive and New Road
         All traffic traveling on Morristown Pike between Main Street
2024-28  (US Highway 40) to a point 2,300 feet south of Davis Road    30
         (County Road 100 South)
 
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 6-23-2010; Ord. 2015-11, passed 10-14-2015; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2023-9, passed 4-26-23) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. RIGHT TURNS ON RED PROHIBITED.
   When appropriate signs are posted on a street or alley indicating that a
right turn on red is prohibited or restricted during certain hours, no person
shall make a right turn on red in violation of the regulations indicated on
such signs:
 
Ord. No. Intersection
1977-25  North Street and Pennsylvania Street
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. NO PASSING ZONES.
   When appropriate signs or markings are posted on a street or alley
indicating that overtaking and passing movements are prohibited or restricted
during certain hours, no person shall make such overtaking or passing movement
indicated on such signs or by such markings:
 
Ord.  Street
No.
1977- “A” Street from the north right-of-way of Park Avenue to a point 500 feet
10    north
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time on any of the following described streets or parts of streets:
Ord. No. Street Between Side
Ord.  Street       Between                                                                   Side
No.
1953- N. Spring    North Street and Main Street                                              East
24    Street
1955- N.
1     Pennsylvania Main and North Streets                                                    East
      Street
1955- Wilson       Main Street and Greenfield High School Athletic Field                     East
1     Street
1955- Mount Street W. Pierson and Tague Street                                               East
20
1958- W. Park      State Street and first north-south alley west of State Street             Both
11    Avenue
1961- N. Franklin  W. North Street to point 129 feet south of North Street                   East
16    Street
1961- Howard       E. Main Street (US 40) to point 136 feet north                            East
17    Street
1966- South Street 115 feet east of the east line of Brandywine Street and east to the first South
6                  alley on the south side of South Street
1966- Swope Street E. Main Street and North Street                                           East
17
1967- E. Pierson   State Street and Meek Street                                              South
13    Street
1967- Ellis Drive  North State Street and Allen Lane on portion of Ellis Drive less than 30  North
18A                feet width
1967- S. Spring    Beginning at a point on the north curb line of South Street and extending East
35    Street       north to the south curb line of Main Street
1970- Pennsylvania Depot Street running 57 feet 8 inches north                               West
13    Street
1970- Center       For first 50 feet south of West Osage Street                              Both
35    Street
1970- Swope Street East Main Street and East North Street                                    West
35
1970- W. Pierson   South Pennsylvania Street and Riley Avenue                                South
35    Street
1971- N. Franklin  Seventh Street and W. McKenzie                                            Both
10    Street
1972- Tague Street State Street and Pennsylvania Street                                      North
9
1973- Meek Street  Penn-Central railroad tracks to Forest Avenue                             West
11
1973- W. Boyd      State Street and Maple Drive                                              North
18    Avenue
1973- McKenzie     State Road 9 and “A” Street                                           North
19    Road
1974- Wilson       North Street and Lincoln Park Athletic Field                              West
9     Street
1975- Green
1     Meadows      State Road 9 and the west property line of Green Meadows Shopping Center  Both
      Drive
1975- Tague Street Noble Street and Center Street                                            Both
8
1975- N. Franklin  W. North Street to Seventh Street                                         East
9     Street
1976- N. Broadway  North curb line of Seventh Street to a point 1,695 feet north of north    West
1                  curb line of Seventh Street
1976- N. Broadway  90 feet north of the north curb line of Seventh Street to Park Avenue     East
1
1976- N. Broadway  Within ten feet of east side of pavement of Broadway from Park Avenue to  East
1                  a point of 345 feet north of Ninth Street
1976- N. Broadway  East side from a point of 345 feet north of Ninth Street to Boyd Avenue   East
1
1976- Center       Tague Street and Osage Street                                             East
11    Street
1977- McKenzie     State Road 9 and Allen Lane                                               South
3     Road
1977- Park Avenue  Swope Street and Brandywine Creek                                         South
5
                                                                                             North
1977- Park Avenue  Swope Street                                                              and
5                                                                                            Pratt
                                                                                             Street
1979- McClarnon    State Road 9 and a point 370 feet west of the west line of State Road 9   North
27    Drive
1979- McClarnon    State Road 9 and a point 162 feet west of the west line of State Road 9   South
27    Drive
1979- East Street  Alley adjacent to the south side of the post office and running in an     West
27                 easterly direction and a point 20 feet south of the alley
1980- Osage Street State Street and East Street                                              Both
23
1981-
12;   Baldwin      Lincoln Street, to a point 100 feet south of the south line of Lincoln    East
2003- Street       Street, and northward to the end of Baldwin Street
16
1982- East South   The east line of the alley, which extends from the intersection of East   South
4     Street       South Street and Vine Street, to a point 80 feet east
1982- South
4     Franklin     U.S. 40 and the first alley                                               East
      Street
1982- Vine Street  The alley and the south right-of-way line of East South Street            West
4
1982- Vine Street  U.S. 40 and East South Street                                             East
4
1987-
12;   Noble Street From its intersection with U.S. 40 to a point 85 feet south of the south  East
2003-              curb line of U.S. 40
1
1987-
12;   Noble Street From its intersection with U.S. 40 to a point 540 feet feet south of the  West
2003-              south curb line of U.S. 40.
1
1988- West Fifth   East line of Hendricks Street to a point 86 feet east.                    North
3     Street
1988- Green
22    Meadows      State Road 9 and North Broadway                                           North
      Drive
1988- McClarnon    East of State Road 9                                                      -
22    Drive
1988- Franklin     U.S. Highway 40 and Tague Street                                          East
22    Street
1990- County Road  State Road 9 and the eastern edge of Brandywine Park                      Both
10    1005
      Access road
1990- within       Entire length                                                             Both
10    Brandywine
      Park
1991- Pierson      State Road 9 East and Meek Street                                          
17    Street
1994- South Street Intersection with west right-of-way line of Spring Street to point 100    South
7                  feet west thereof
1994- Lincoln      Baldwin Street to Howard Street                                           Both
7     Street
      Pennsylvania
      Street
      (Between
      hours of 8:
1994- 00 a.m. and  A point 65 feet south of south right-of- way line of North Street to
7     5:00 p.m. of point 120 feet south of said south right-of-way line                      East
      any day,
      except
      Saturday,
      Sunday, or
      holidays)
1995- Swope Street Its intersection with south right-of-way line of Boyd Avenue to first     Both
2                  alley south thereof
1995- Brandywine   From McKenzie Street to Boyd Avenue                                       Both
2     Parkway
1995- Boyd Street  From State Street to Swope Street                                         Both
2
1995- McCully      Entire length                                                             Both
2     Street
1995- E. McClarnon State Street eastwardly to its terminus                                   Both
2     Drive
1995- Spring       Intersection with south right-of-way line of Park Avenue to point 75 feet Both
2     Street       south thereof
1995- Monroe       From Fourth Street to Fifth Street                                        East
9     Street
      Maple Drive
      (between 7:
1995- 00 a.m and
9     4:00 p.m. on From Boyd Avenue to Park Avenue                                           Both
      either the
      east or west
      side)
      Park Avenue
1995- (between 7:  From Maple Drive to Oak Boulevard                                         North
9     00 a.m. and
      4:00 p.m.)
1996- Harding      From Roosevelt Drive to Winfield Drive                                    West
7     Street
                                                                                             East
                                                                                             and
                                                                                             west
                                                                                             except
                                                                                             for the
                                                                                             area
                                                                                             between
1996- Apple Street From US/40 Main Street to north city limit                                Riley
8                                                                                            Park
                                                                                             North
                                                                                             Drive
                                                                                             and
                                                                                             Riley
                                                                                             Park
                                                                                             East
                                                                                             Drive
1996- Tague Street From Pennsylvania Street first alley west of and south Pennsylvania       North
27                 Street
1998- Martindale   From State Street to New Road within the city                             Both
5     Drive
1998- Barrett      From Martindale Drive to its point of termination                         Both
5     Drive
1998- McKenzie     From its intersection with Broadway Street to Franklin Road               Both
15    Road
1998- Broadway     From 7th Street to McKenzie Road                                          West
21    Street
1998- Paragon Way  From Fields Boulevard to Warren Way                                       South
21
1998-                                                                                        North
21    Warren Way   From Fields Boulevard to Paragon Way                                      and
                                                                                             east
1998- Preston      From McClarnon Drive to Fields Boulevard                                  North
21    Drive
1999-                                                                                        North
6     Fallon Lane  Entire length                                                             and
                                                                                             east
1999- East North   From the east curb line of State Street to the first alley east of State  North
6     Street       Street, a distance of 165 feet
2000- East         From its intersection with State Road 9 to its intersection with Apple
6     McKenzie     Street                                                                    South
      Road
2000- West         From its intersection with State Road 9 to its intersection with Broadway North
6     McKenzie     Street                                                                    and
      Road                                                                                   south
2001- West
2     McClarnon    From State Road 9 to Broadway Street                                      Both
      Drive
2004- South Street A point 94 feet east of American Legion Place to a point 254 feet east of North
25                 American Legion Place
2007- Maple Drive  Between Boyd Avenue and Elm Drive                                         Both
6
2010- Park Avenue  Hillcrest Lane and Maple Drive                                            South
11
      S. State
2011- Road 9 (S.   South curb line of S. State Road 9 to south curb line of McKenzie Road, a East
5     State        distance of 5,514 feet on the east side
      Street)
      S. State
2011- Road 9 (S.   167 feet south of the curb line of U.S. 40 (Main Street) to the south     West
5     State        curb line of McKenzie Road, a distance of 5,347 feet
      Street)
2012- Baldwin      Between U.S. 40 (Main Street) and North Street                            East
2     Street
2012- U.S. 40      Between Baldwin Street east to east edge of the city’s water filtration
2     (Main        plant                                                                     North
      Street)
2012- State Street From intersection with South Street, to 62 feet south of the south curb   West
7                  line of South Street
2014- Opportunity  Entire length                                                             Both
5     Parkway
2014- Innovation   Entire length                                                             Both
5     Way
2014- Eagleston    Entire length                                                             Both
5     Way
2018-
15;   Apple Street South entrance to the Old Log Jail and the entrance to the Patricia       West
2018-              Elmore Center
24
2019- Forest       Meek Street eastward to the Cemetery Gate entrance                        North
19    Avenue
2023- Osage Street Osage Street from American Legion Place eastward to the private drive     South
04                 past the old Knitwear Building commonly referred to as Johnson Drive
 
(Ord. 2009-18, passed 9-9-2009; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
72.99
SCHEDULE VII. PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   When appropriate signs are erected on a street or alley indicating that
parking of a vehicle is prohibited or restricted during certain hours, no
person shall park a vehicle in violation of the regulations indicated on such
signs:
Ord. No. Street Between Limitation
Ord. No.         Street              Between              Limitation
                                     50 feet in length in
                                     front of library     8:00 a.m. to 8:00
5-17-28          W. North Street     (except Sundays)     p.m.
                                     except for patron of
                                     library
                                                          8:00 a.m. and 10:00
1958-2           E. Osage Street     Meek Street and east a.m. and 1:00 p.m.
                                     corporation line     and 4:00 p.m. (except
                                                          Sundays and holidays)
                                     South curb line of   15-minute limit on
                                     South Street and     west side between 8:
2-5-58           State Street        north edge of the    00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
                                     first alley running  (except Sundays and
                                     east and west south  holidays)
                                     of South Street
                                                          2-hour limit between
1960-21          School Street       North and Walnut     8:00 a.m. and 6:00
                                     Streets              p.m. (except Sundays
                                                          and holidays)
                                     115 feet east to the
                                     east line of         15-minute limitation
                                     Brandywine Street    (only for purpose of
1966-6           East South Street   and running east to  loading and unloading
                                     the first alley on   delivery vehicles)
                                     the south side of
                                     South Street
                                     South Street and
1967-35          S. Spring           Main Street on west  2-hour limitation
                                     side
                                     North State Street
1967-43          Grant Street        and north East       15-minute limitation
                                     Street on south side
                                     of Grant
1969-18          N. State Street     Main Street and      4:00 p.m. to 6:00
                                     North Street         p.m.
                                     East Street or
                                     American Legion and  2-hour limit between
1981-6           Main Street         Potts Ditch (except  8:00 a.m. and 8:00
                                     Sundays and          p.m.
                                     holidays)
                                                          2-hour limit between
1981-6; 2003-16  Pennsylvania Street Main Street and      8:00 a.m. and 4:00
                                     South Street         p.m., Monday through
                                                          Friday
                                                          2-hour limit between
1981-6; 2003-16  W. South Street     Pennsylvania Street  8:00 a.m. and 4:00
                                     and State Street     p.m., Monday through
                                                          Friday
                                                          2-hour limit between
1984-16; 2003-16 American Legion     Main Street and      8:00 a.m. and 4:00
                 Place               South Street         p.m., Monday through
                                                          Friday
                                                          2-hour limit between
1984-16; 2003-16 East Street         Main Street and      8:00 a.m. and 4:00
                                     North Street         p.m., Monday through
                                                          Friday
                                     Pennsylvania and
                                     East Street or       2-hour limit between
1984-16          Main Street         American Legion      8:00 a.m. and 8:00
                                     Place (except        p.m.
                                     Sundays)
                                     Pennsylvania and     2-hour limit between
1984-16          North Street        East Street (except  8:00 a.m. and 8:00
                                     Sundays)             p.m.
                                     Spring Street and
                                     East Street or       30-minute limit
1988-1           Main Street         American Legion      between 8:00 a.m. and
                                     Place (except        8:00 p.m.
                                     Sundays)
                                     The north or south
                                     side of New Road
                                     from State Street to
1996-16          Muskegon Drive      East Street,         2-hour limit
                                     commonly known as
                                     American Legion
                                     Place
                                     The east side of
                                     South State Street
                                     from the southern
                                     most point of its
1997-10          State Street        intersection with    15-minutes
                                     South Street and for
                                     a distance not to
                                     exceed 90 feet in a
                                     southerly direction
                                     therefrom.
                                                          2-hour limit from 8:
2003-16          Main Street         Pennsylvania Street  00 a.m. and 4:00
                                     and Spring Street    p.m., Monday through
                                                          Friday
                                     On the east side,    2-hour limit from 8:
2003-16          N. Pennsylvania     between North Street 00 a.m. and 4:00
                 Street              and the first alley  p.m., Monday through
                                     north of Main Street Friday
                                     On the north side,   2-hour limit from 8:
2003-16          North Street        between East Street  00 a.m. and 4:00
                                     and the first alley  p.m., Monday through
                                     east of State Street Friday
                                     On the south side,   2-hour limit from 8:
2003-16          North Street        between State Street 00 a.m. and 4:00
                                     and East Street      p.m., Monday through
                                                          Friday
                                                          2-hour limit from 8:
2003-16          North Street        Pennsylvania Street  00 a.m. and 4:00
                                     and State Street     p.m., Monday through
                                                          Friday
                                     On the west side,
                                     between the first
2003-16          State Street        alley south of Main  2-hour limit from 8:
                                     Street and the first 00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
                                     alley south of South
                                     Street
                                     On either side of
                                     American Legion      2-hour limit from 8:
                 American Legion     Place between South  00 a.m. and 4:00
2004-25          Place               Street and the first p.m., Monday through
                                     alley south of South Friday
                                     Street, a distance
                                     of 180 feet
                                     On the north side of
                                     South Street from a
                                     point 28 feet East   2-hour limit from 8:
2004-25          South Street        of American Legion   00 a.m. and 4:00
                                     Place to a point 94  p.m., Monday through
                                     feet east of         Friday
                                     American Legion
                                     Place
                                     On the north side of 2-hour limit from 8:
                                     South Street from    00 a.m. and 4:00
2004-25          South Street        Spring Street to a   p.m., Monday through
                                     point 165 feet west  Friday
                                     of Spring Street
                                     On the south side of 2-hour limit from 8:
                                     South Street between 00 a.m. and 4:00
2004-25          South Street        American Legion      p.m., Monday through
                                     Place and Spring     Friday
                                     Street
 
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 2-23-2011; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
72.99
SCHEDULE VIII. DRIVING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on the following streets.
The Street Department, in conjunction with the Traffic Safety Committee, shall
erect the necessary traffic-control signs.
 
Street       Between                        Ord. No.
South Street SR 9 and American Legion Place 1984-16
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IX. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to park the
vehicle in a space reserved for the physically handicapped unless there is
displayed on the vehicle an unexpired handicapped parking permit, an unexpired
disabled veteran’s registration plate, or an unexpired handicapped registration
plate or decal issued under the laws of the state or any other state, and only
when the vehicle is being used to transport a physically handicapped person.
   (B)   The following parking spaces are reserved for the physically
handicapped.
Location Ord. No.
Location                                                               Ord. No.
Two spaces located on the south side of West North Street in front of  1991-14
the Senior Citizens Center at 19 West North Street
Two spaces on the west side of American Legion Place, the first space
commencing 32 feet 5 inches north of the apex of the existing curb on
the northeast corner of South Street and American Legion Place and
terminating 45 feet north of said apex. The second space shall         1998-21
commence at 45 feet north of the apex of the existing curb on the
northeast corner of South Street and American Legion Place and
terminate 57 feet 5 inches north of said apex
Two spaces on the west side of NorthEast Street, the first space
commencing 29 feet 7 inches north of the apex of the curb on the
northwest corner of the intersection of US 40 (Main Street) and East   1998-21
Street and terminating 41 feet 7 inches from said apex. The second
space shall commence 41 feet 7 inches north of said apex and terminate
52 feet 0 inches north of said apex
One space commencing 125 feet west of the apex of the curb located on
the northwest corner of US 40 (West Main Street) and Pennsylvania      1998-21
Street and terminating 145 feet north of said apex
One space commencing 169 feet west of the apex of the curb at the
southwest corner of State Road 9 (State Street) at its intersection    1998-21
with North Street and terminating 189 feet west of said intersection
Two spaces on the east side of Pennsylvania Street, the first space
commencing 95 feet 6 inches from the apex of the curb on the northwest
corner of the intersection of U.S. 40 (Main Street) and Pennsylvania   1998-21
Street and terminating 120 feet 6 inches north of said apex. The
second space shall commence 120 feet 6 inches north of said apex and
terminate 140 feet 6 inches north of said apex
One parking space on the east side of American Legion Place commencing
263 feet south of the southeast corner of East Main Street and         2001-13
American Legion Place
One parking space on the south side of Lincoln Street commencing at
the southwest corner of the intersection of Lincoln Street and Swope   2001-21
Street, thence 20 feet from said intersection
One parking space on the west side of Swope Street commencing at the
southwest corner of the intersection of Lincoln Street and Swope       2001-21
Street, thence south 20 feet from said intersection
Two spaces on the east side of American Legion Place commencing 75
feet south of the south edge of South Street and continuing to a point 2005-1
45 feet south thereof
Two parking spaces directly north of the VFW building on the south     2019-16
side of East 6th Street, immediately east of Apple Street
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE X. ROUNDABOUTS.
   The following locations are roundabouts.
 
Location                            Ord. No.
Broadway Street and McKenzie Road   2020-24
Apple Street and McKenzie Road      2020-24
New Road and Apple Street           2020-24
Franklin Street and McKenzie Road   2020-24
Martindale Drive and Florence Drive 2020-24
Meridian Road and McKenzie Road     2020-24
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE XI. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking is prohibited at the following locations.
 
Location                                                            Ord. No.
Allow parking on Vine Street (west side of the roadway) starting 45
feet from the back of the sidewalk and ending at 117 feet from the  2020-08
same location
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL MANAGEMENT
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
      
94.   SANITATION
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   PARKS
      
97.   TREES
      
98.   FAIR HOUSING
      
99.   FIRE AND SECURITY ALARMS
      
100.   PARK CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL MANAGEMENT
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals at large; prohibited
   
90.03   Animal care and treatment
   
90.04   Rabies vaccine; tag required
   
90.05   Impoundment
   
90.06   Adoption rules and procedures
   
90.07   Awarding live animals as prizes
   
90.08   Enticing animals to fight
   
90.09   Wild animals
   
90.10   Keeping domestic farm animals
   
90.11   Vehicular collisions with animals
   
90.12   Enticing animals
   
90.13   Permanent identification of dogs and cats required
   
90.14   Dog and cat curbing requirements
   
90.15   Animals causing a nuisance
   
90.16   Lost or stray domestic animals
   
90.17   Humane euthanasia of animals
   
90.18   Injured or diseased animals
   
90.19   Classification of non-commercial kennel
   
90.20   Bees and beekeeping
   
90.21   Enforcement
   
90.22   Interference with official
   
90.23   Right to enter
   
90.24   Record of impounded animals
   
90.25   Official warning and notice of code violation
   
90.26   Owner’s responsibility for animal attacks
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The voluntary relinquishment of possession by the owner with
the intention of his or her ownership, but without vesting possession in any
other person. The failure to make adequate provision of food, water, and/or
shelter shall be prima facie evidence of ABANDONMENT.
   ADULT DOG AND CAT. Any dog or cat that is three months of age or older for
the purposes of rabies vaccinations/tags.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal which has been spayed or neutered.
   ANIMAL. Any non-human, animate being which is endowed with the power of
voluntary motion.
   ANIMAL MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR. Any person who has been appointed as such by the
Mayor.
   ANIMAL MANAGEMENT OFFICER. Any person who has been appointed as such by the
Animal Management Director.
   ANIMAL MANAGEMENT SHELTER. Any facility operated by a humane society or city
agency, or its authorized agents, or operated under contract or agreement with
the Board of Public Works for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals
held under the authority of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. The unrestrained wandering or roaming of any animal on a public
walkway, roadway, highway, or on property not owned or leased by such animal’s
owner. AT LARGE includes any animal meeting the definition set forth herein
when it is upon its owner’s property and not under the direct control and
supervision of the owner.
   ATTACK. Unprovoked action in an aggressive manner against a human that
includes a bite or causes a scratch, abrasion, or bruising, or on a domestic
animal, that causes death or injury that requires veterinary treatment.
   BIRDS OF PREY. Members of the Accipitridae, Aquila, Haliaeetus,
Falconiformes, Accipiter, and Buteo family.
   CONFINED OUTSIDE. Confined outside the house, mobile home, or apartment
where the owner is living. CONFINED OUTSIDE would include in the yard, or in a
garage, shed, or barn without heating or air-conditioning. Access to a garage,
shed, or barn maintained between 40°F and 80°F would not be considered confined
outside.
   DANGEROUS.
      (1)   (a)   Constitutes a danger to human life or property;
         (b)   Has caused serious injury to a person without having been
provoked by that person;
         (c)   At a place other than its owner’s property has:
            1.   Chased or approached a person in a menacing fashion or
apparent attitude of attack; or
            2.   Attacked another domestic animal.
         (d)   Because of its training or behavior, is capable of inflicting
physical harm or death to humans; or
      (2)   (a)   Involved in more than one reported bite incident reported to
the animal management shelter in the last 12 months.
         (b)   Animals, while engaged in law enforcement activities, are not
considered dangerous for the purpose of this code.
   DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS.
      (1)   Cattle, including cows, bulls, steers, and calves;
      (2)   Horses, including mares, stallions, geldings, and ponies;
      (3)   Mules;
      (4)   Donkeys or burros;
      (5)   Sheep or lambs;
      (6)   Goats;
      (7)   Rabbits for the purpose of commercial sale for their meat or pelts;
      (8)   Swine, including pigs, hogs, boars, sows, or piglets;
      (9)   Poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, turkeys, ducks,
geese, guinea fowl, peafowl, pigeons, and pheasants;
      (10)   Exotic animals, being defined as a wild animal that is non-native
to the state;
      (11)   Wild animals, being defined as one that lives in the wild or is
not domesticated;
      (12)   Birds of prey, including, but not limited to, members of the
Accipitridae, Aquila, Haliaeetus, Falconiformes, Accipiter, and Buteo family;
and
      (13)   Any other animal kept, owned, maintained, or raised for the
commercial purpose of selling it for the meat, pelts, or other product.
   EXOTIC. Any animal not naturally found in the state.
   GREENFIELD HANCOCK ANIMAL MANAGEMENT. The Greenfield/Hancock County Animal
Management Department.
   GUARD DOG. Any dog trained by a recognized training facility for the purpose
of protecting individuals from assault and/or preventing property loss or
damage. The term RECOGNIZED TRAINING FACILITY means any person holding a state
kennel license and a business license for either of the purposes described in
this definition.
   HIVE OPERATOR. Any property owner who maintains or causes to be maintained a
colony on his or her property in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   HUMANE TRAP. Any device used for capturing an animal without inflicting
injury, pain, or suffering and which provides adequate ventilation for the
trapped animal. Snares, leg traps, or similar devices are considered inhumane
and shall not be used.
   IDENTIFIED COMPLAINT. A complaint in which the identity of the complaint is
known to the Animal Management Director/Officer and whose identity will not be
made public but held confidential.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an animal management officer or other officer empowered to act by law and
transporting it to the animal management facility.
   INHUMANE. Infliction of injury, pain, or suffering upon an animal or failure
to provide adequate food, water, shelter, or ventilation to an animal.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any facility wherein any person engages in the business
of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling
dogs or cats.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT ANIMAL. An animal that is owned or used by a law enforcement
agency for the purposes of aiding in the detection of criminal activity,
enforcement of laws, the apprehension of offenders, and ensuring the public
welfare.
   NUISANCE. Any one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   A condition which arises by a dog, cat, or other animal chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other moving vehicles on the streets or
sidewalks or any other public area of the city;
      (2)   A condition which arises by a dog, cat, or other animal destroying,
defacing, or damaging shrubbery, lawns, or flowers which results in the general
nuisance of citizens in the neighborhood where such dog, cat, or other animals
are harbored;
      (3)   A condition which arises by a dog barking, whining, or howling
consistently so as to disturb the peace of the neighborhood;
      (4)   A condition which arises from the accumulation of animal excreta on
the property of the owner, public, or any other citizens so as to cause an
obnoxious odor, create a situation which could draw or breed insects, attract
vermin, or cause a health nuisance; and/or
      (5)   Any animal deemed dangerous or vicious that has not been registered
with Animal Management annually.
   OWNER or KEEPER. Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, feeds, maintains, has
lawful possession of, or knowingly causes or knowingly permits an animal to be
harbored or kept or has an animal in his or her care or who permits an animal
to remain on or about his or her premises; provided, however, this shall not
include a person hired or acting as custodian of the animal for its OWNER.
   PET SHOP. Any person, partnership, corporation, or any other business
entity, other than a licensed kennel, that buys or sells any species of animal.
   REPTILE. Any member of a large group of air-breathing scaly vertebrates,
including, but not limited to, snakes, alligators, and turtles.
   RUNNING IN PACK. Three or more dogs, cats, or other animals at large
together, which, by repeated or continual presence, constitute a physical
danger to a neighborhood, livestock, personal, or real property.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. A properly trained animal certified as a service animal by a
licensed training facility that has an expertise in training animals for the
impaired person and that is actually being used by a person to assist that
person.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED FACILITY. A building maintained between 40°F and
80°F.
   TETHER. Any chain, rope, cable, and the like used to restrain or confine an
animal.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that attacks, bites, or injures human beings,
pets, companion animals, or livestock or which, because of temperament,
conditioning, or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite, or injure
human beings, pets, companion animals, or livestock, as defined in I.C. 35-
31.5-2-29 and I.C. 35-31.5-2-292. No dog may be declared vicious if a threat,
injury, or damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner or
keeper of the dog or was teasing, tormented, abusing, or assaulting the dog or
was committing or attempting to commit a crime. The definition shall not be
construed to include dogs that are part of a governmental organization or a
trained guard dog in performance of its duties, or any animal otherwise defined
in the state’s code of ordinances.
   WARM-BLOODED ANIMAL. Any animal that maintains a constant body temperature;
all mammals, including dogs, cats, and rabbits.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009; Ord. 2019-18, passed 11-13-2019; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13- 2020)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS AT LARGE; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or person having custody or control
of any animal to permit such animal to wander, roam, or otherwise move at
large.
   (B)   To allow such animal to repeatedly run at large, whether wearing a
collar and tag or not, throughout the city, constitutes a public nuisance. Any
and all animals found running at large, whether wearing a collar and tag or
not, shall be immediately impounded by officers of the animal management or any
police officer. The officers may pursue the animal onto private property to
effect capture of such animal.
   (C)   All owners or persons having custody or control shall confine within a
completely enclosed building or secure enclosure with no means of escape any
dog, cat, or other animal when in heat or rutting.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any animal to
exercise reasonable care and take all necessary steps and precautions to
restrain his or her animal so as to protect other people, property, and animals
from injuries or damage which might result from the animal’s behavior. If the
owner or custodian of any animal is a minor, the parent or guardian of such
minor shall be jointly responsible for the minor’s violation of this chapter.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any animal to
ensure that the animal is kept under restraint and that reasonable care and
precautions are taken to prevent the animal from leaving the real property
limits of its owner, possessor, or custodian, and ensure that the animal is
securely and humanely enclosed within a house, building, fence, pen, or other
enclosure out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump, or otherwise escape on its
own volition; and that such enclosure is securely locked at all times or
anytime the animal is left unattended.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ANIMAL CARE AND TREATMENT.
   (A)   Animal care requirements. Every owner or keeper of an animal kept in
the city shall see that such animal:
      (1)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement; the
person(s) responsible for animal(s) shall regularly and, as often as necessary
to prevent odor or health and sanitation problems, maintain all animal areas or
areas of animal contact;
      (2)   Has food that is appropriate for the species in adequate amounts to
maintain good health, fresh potable drinking water where appropriate, shelter
and ventilation, including quarters that are protected from excessive heat and
cold and are of sufficient size to permit the animal to exercise and move about
freely;
      (3)   Is protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect, torment, overload,
overwork, or any other mistreatment;
      (4)   Shall provide the reasonably necessary medical care according to
commonly accepted veterinary standards, in addition to the required rabies
vaccination which shall include recommended vaccinations as required by
accepted veterinary standards, and if diseased or injured or exhibiting
symptoms of disease, receives proper care and is segregated from other animals
so as to prevent transmittal of the disease; and
      (5)   Is maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and
local laws and all regulations respecting animal care and control.
   (B)   Mistreatment. It shall be unlawful for a person to beat, starve, or
otherwise mistreat any animal in the city, or to fail to comply with any
requirement of division (A) above.
   (C)   Unlawful tethering. It shall be unlawful to tether any animal by use
of a choke collar, or on any collar too small for the size and age of the
animal, or by any rope, chain, or cord directly attached to the animal’s neck,
or by a leash less than 12 feet in length, or by any tether or leash without
swivels on both ends, or of such unreasonable weight as to prevent the animal
from moving about freely.
   (D)   Tethering requirements. It shall be unlawful for any animal to be
tethered between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; or to tether any
unsterilized dog for any period of time unless such dog is in visual range of a
competent adult who is outside with the dog; or to tether or confine an animal
at or upon a vacant structure or premises for any purpose or time when it is
not monitored by a competent adult who is present at the property for the
duration of such tethering or confinement.
   (E)   Requirements for confinement outside. In addition to the general
requirements for animal care and treatment in this chapter, every owner or
keeper of a dog kept in the city shall see that such dog when confined outside:
      (1)   Has access to a shelter constructed of solid wood or other weather-
resistant material, consisting of a structure with solid walls on all sides,
and a dry floor raised above the ground. During winter and any day when the
temperature is at or below 40°F, the shelter must be just large enough for the
dog to stand up and turn around, and must contain clean, dry bedding, which
must consist of an insulating material that does not retain moisture, such as
straw, of sufficient depth for the dog to burrow. On any day when the
temperature is at or above 80°F, the shelter must be shaded by trees, a tarp,
or a tarp-like device;
      (2)   Must be brought into a temperature controlled facility when the
temperature is at or below 20°F or at or above 90°F, or when a heat advisory,
wind chill warning, or tornado warning has been issued by local, state, or
national authority, except when the dog in visual range of a competent adult
who is outside with the dog;
      (3)   Has adequate space for exercise when confined in an enclosure or
pen, which shall consist of no less than 100 square feet. A dog over 80 pounds
must be provided with an additional 50 square feet. For each additional dog
inside the enclosure, 50 square feet of space for exercise must be added per
dog;
      (4)   Is treated so that there are no open lesions on the dog’s skin due
to insect bites or other parasitic infections; and
      (5)   Shall not be tethered except when all of the following conditions
are met:
         (a)   The tether is not attached to a motorized vehicle, such as an
automobile, truck, or motorcycle;
         (b)   The dog is at least six months of age and is not sick or
injured;
         (c)   The tethered dog has access to water, shelter, and dry ground.
If there are multiple tethered dogs, each dog must be tethered separately in a
manner that prevents the tethers from becoming entangled with each other or any
other object, and each dog must have separate water and shelter;
         (d)   The tether is attached to the dog by a properly fitting buckle-
type collar, or a collar that will not break under pressure, with a rotating
toggle or attachment. Pinch, prong, or choke collars shall not be used. The
tether shall not wrap directly around the dog’s neck. The tether must have
swivels on both ends;
         (e)   The tether is not of such unreasonable weight as to prevent the
dog from moving about freely, is free of tangles, cannot be entangled with
another animal or object, and is at least 12 feet in length;
         (f)   If the dog is attached to a trolley system, the running line
must be at least 12 feet in length and the tether length must be greater than
the height of the running line; and
         (g)   The tether is located so as not to allow the dog to trespass on
public or private property nor in such a manner as to cause harm or danger to
persons or other animals.
   (F)   Violations. In the discretion of the enforcement authority, a person
who violates any provision of this section for the first time may be given
written notice of the practices or conditions which constitute the violation,
and the enforcement authority shall, in such instance, direct remedies to such
person where appropriate and provide a time period of no longer than 30 days
within which to correct the violation(s). Failure of the violator to correct
the violations within the specified time period shall constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation under this section.
   (G)   Abandonment. It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having
custody of any dog, cat, or other animal to abandon the same within the city.
   (H)   Inhumane traps. It shall be unlawful to use any inhumane trap within
the city limits.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.04 RABIES VACCINE; TAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   All dogs, cats, and ferrets three months of age and older must be
vaccinated against rabies in accordance with 345 IAC 1-5-2.
   (B)   Each owner of a dog, cat, or ferret that is kept in the city shall
cause the rabies vaccination tag to be affixed to the animal collar, and to be
worn by the animal at all times.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Establish of pound or shelter. The city shall arrange for use of an
animal management shelter, as provided in state law, which shall be located
within the city.
   (B)   Cause for impoundment. It shall be the duty of the Animal Management
Director, or designee, to apprehend and impound in such animal shelter any dog,
cat, or any other animal found doing any of the following acts or being kept or
maintained in any of the following conditions, unless provided herein:
      (1)   Running at large, not conforming to §
90.02(B).
      (2)   Not confined, as provided in §
90.02;
      (3)   Kept in violation of §
90.03;
      (4)   Abandoned, as provided in §
90.03(G);
      (5)   Entering private property causing injury to person or property in
violation of §
90.02(D);
      (6)   Not registered, licensed, or tagged as provided in this chapter and
state law;
      (7)   Upon an identified complaint made to animal management office of a
violation of this chapter; and
      (8)   Upon order of the court following a conviction of any person for
violation any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Official warning in lieu of impoundment. The provisions of the above
notwithstanding, in lieu of impounding any animal under division (B) above, the
Animal Management Director, or designee, may issue an official warning to the
owner or person having custody of such dog, cat, or other animal.
   (D)   Notification of impoundment. Not later than 24 hours after the
impoundment of any dog, cat, or other animal, except if such impoundment is by
reason of §
90.04, the Animal Management Director, or designee, shall notify the owner or
person having custody of such animal, if known, by first class United States
mail or by telephone, of such impoundment and the reason thereof. In the event
that the owner is unknown, no notification will be deemed necessary.
   (E)   Notification and redemption of impounded animal. Whether an impounded
dog, cat, or other animal may be redeemed shall be within the sole discretion
of the Animal Management Director; however, any dog, cat, or other animal that
has been impounded on three or more occasions may not be redeemed or reclaimed.
   (F)   Fees for redemption of impounded animal. An owner or person having
custody of an impounded dog, cat, or other animal who has been notified that
such dog, cat, or other animal may be reclaimed or redeemed, may reclaim or
redeem the same upon payment of the following fees and upon fulfillment of the
following obligations.
      (1)   If the dog, cat, or other animal has been picked up or captured by
a city employee or other authorized agent of the city, the owner or person
having custody of such animal shall pay a redemption fee as provided for by a
schedule established by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (2)   Before the dog or cat shall be released, the owner or person having
custody of such animal shall have the dog or cat inoculated against rabies, and
certify the same to the Animal Management Director, or his or her designee.
      (3)   All dogs, cats, or other animals reclaimed must be micro-chipped at
the owner’s expense before it will be released back to the owner or person
having custody.
   (G)   Failure to reclaim or redeem impounded animal. It shall be unlawful
for an owner or person having custody of an impounded dog or cat or other
animal, who has been notified that such dog, cat, or other animal may be
reclaimed or redeemed, to fail to reclaim the same on or before the last day of
impoundment before the disposition of such dog, cat, or other animal under §
90.05(H).
   (H)   Impounded animal not registered, licensed, tagged or redeemed.
      (1)   All dogs, cats, or other animals impounded under this chapter and
not registered, licensed, tagged, and redeemed shall be disposed of in a humane
manner or placed for adoption after the expiration of the following time
periods:
         (a)   Three days after notice is given to the owner or person having
custody of such animal, as required under division (D) above;
         (b)   Five days after impoundment when the owner or person having
custody of such animal is unknown;
         (c)   After the animal has been impounded for a third time within a
12-month period; or
         (d)   At the time fixed by the court under division (B) above.
      (2)   Provided, however, that the dog, cat, or other animal which appears
to be suffering from mange or other infectious or contagious disease, except
rabies, may be disposed of immediately upon impoundment, as authorized by the
Animal Management Director.
   (I)   Extermination of vicious or dangerous animals. Whenever the Animal
Management Department shall find any dog, cat, or other animal running in packs
vicious, or in such condition as to be too dangerous to capture, or too
dangerous to maintain at the animal management facility, then the Animal
Management Director is authorized to give authorization to an Animal Management
Officer to dispose of the animal where it may be found or upon return to the
animal management facility.
   (J)   Prohibition of experimentation on impounded animals. No impounded
animals shall be sold or given to any person, procurer, or agent for the
purpose of experimentation.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ADOPTION RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Adoption restrictions are as follows.
      (1)   Animals to be adopted must meet state requirements for vaccination
and taxation.
      (2)   Animals that have not been neutered or spayed will not be adopted
until arrangements for neutering or spaying have been made.
      (3)   Person adopting gives assurance that the animal will be kept on his
or her property and not be allowed to run at large.
      (4)   No animal will be adopted to a person convicted of cruelty to an
animal or known to be a repeat offender of allowing an animal to run at large.
      (5)   No adoption by a minor will be allowed.
      (6)   Any person living in an apartment, mobile home, or rental property
must get consent from the owner before adoption.
      (7)   If, at any time, the new owner becomes unable to care for the
animal, a new responsible owner must be found or the animal returned to the
animal management facility.
      (8)   Pregnant females are not available for adoption.
      (9)   Nursing females are not available for adoption unless pups are at
weaning age.
      (10)   Injured or sick animals are not available for adoption.
      (11)   The person adopting acknowledges animal management personnel are
not veterinarians and therefore cannot guarantee the health of adopted animals.
      (12)   All fees are non-refundable.
      (13)   Any animal that is known to have bitten an individual will not be
available for adoption.
      (14)   Animal management personnel and the city are not responsible for
the actions of animals adopted out of animal management.
   (B)   If the application is accepted, placement can take place as soon as
fees and other required certification is completed. Animal management reserves
the right of refusal on any adoption. Applicant has the right of appeal to the
Animal Management Director within 24 hours of refusal.
   (C)   Fees for adoption and other fees shall be initially $25 for all
animals or as subsequently established by the City Board of Public Works and
Safety.
   (D)   Fees set forth in division (C) above are to be paid directly to
Greenfield Hancock Animal Management.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 90.07 AWARDING LIVE ANIMALS AS PRIZES.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to sell, offer for sale, trade, barter, or
give away, within city limits, any animal as a novelty, prize, or as an
incentive to enter a place of, amusement, or offer such vertebrate as an
incentive to enter any business establishment or enter into any business
agreement whereas the offer was made for the purpose of attracting trade for
the establishment, other than establishments selling animals as its primary
business.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ENTICING ANIMALS TO FIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to incite, train to fight (other than a
crime prevention animal), or set any animal to fighting another animal, or to
incite combat between animals and humans within the city limits. It also shall
be unlawful to attend or be a spectator at an organized or unorganized animal
fight.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, have custody,
keep, or make provisions for keeping a wild animal within the city limits,
regardless of whether such animal is caged, penned, sheltered, or housed unless
such resident of the city has received a permit for possession of wild animals
from the Department of Natural Resources of the state or any other regulatory
authority.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or have custody of
or within any property located within the city limits any poisonous or
potentially dangerous snake, reptile, or insect or any other type of animal or
marine life which has the propensity of causing serious harm to human beings.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed so as to apply to a zoological
garden, theatrical exhibit, or a circus act, except that no theatrical exhibit
or act shall be held in which animals are encouraged to perform through the use
of chemical, electrical, or mechanical devices.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 KEEPING DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   Subject to the exceptions set forth below, it shall be unlawful for
any person to own, keep, or have custody of on his or her property within the
city limits any bovine, porcine, equine, gallus gallus, or other domestic farm
animal as defined herein.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, the intent of this section is to permit the
use and enjoyment of certain domestic farm animals at rates that are
appropriate for the health, welfare, and safety of the animals, neighboring
property owners, and the public. This type of agricultural or agri-tourism use
should be conducted in a manner that protects the values and aesthetics of the
community.
   (C)   The keeping of domestic farm animals as defined herein shall be
considered a permitted use in the CN, NR, CS, CP, and I-B Zoning districts with
the following requirements:
      (1)   The minimum property size shall be two acres for the first such
large domestic farm animal, as defined herein, and an additional acre for each
additional large domestic farm animal, as defined herein, thereafter existing
on the subject property.
      (2)   All open areas where domestic farm animals are allowed to exist
shall be properly fenced so as to ensure any such domestic farm animal(s) may
not, at any time, wander, roam, or otherwise move at large as prohibited by §
90.02 of this chapter. Any such fence or enclosure existing within the
designated front yard area of the subject property shall not exceed five feet
in height and shall be transparent.
      (3)   The keeping of domestic farm animals shall be subject to obtaining
a permit from the Greenfield Animal Management Department, which permit shall
allow the keeping of domestic farm animals only through the months of June
through December of each year. As part of the application process for said
permit, the applicant shall allow personnel from Greenfield Animal Management
Department to inspect the subject premises to determine that all of the
criteria set forth herein have been met at the time of application and shall
allow inspections as requested by personnel from the Greenfield Animal
Management Department throughout the term of the permit to ensure the
appropriate conditions continue for the entire term of the permit. The cost for
said permit shall be in the annual amount of $250.
   (D)   For purposes of this provision, domestic farm animals as defined
herein, shall be classified as either large domestic farm animals or small
domestic farm animals. Farm animals who have not reached mature adulthood
should not count against any animal quantity restrictions. For the purposes of
this provision, large domestic farm animals shall be those listed in § 90.01,
DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS, divisions (1) through (6), (8), and (10) through (13).
For the purposes of this provision, small domestic farm animals shall be those
listed in § 90.01 DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS, divisions (7) and (9).
   (E)   The keeping of small domestic farm animals shall be limited to three
such animals per acre.
   (F)   The keeping of large domestic farm animals shall be limited to one
such animal per acre.
   (G)   Structures, kennels, stalls, coops, pens or other elements to house
large or small domestic farm animals on the immediately surrounding property
controlling the movement of such domestic farm animals shall be considered
confinement areas and shall not occupy an area greater than 10% of the total
lot area of the property. Confinement areas shall not be allowed in any area
deemed to constitute the subject property's front yard.
   (H)   Small domestic farm animal confinement areas shall be a minimum of 50
feet from any side or rear property line and shall not be allowed in any area
deemed to constitute the subject property's front yard.
   (I)   Large domestic farm animal confinement areas shall be a minimum of 100
feet from any side or rear property line with any fencing or other structure
associated with the confinement area being located a minimum of 30 feet from
any front, side, or rear property line.
   (J)   Notwithstanding the above and foregoing, all large and/or small
domestic farm animals are subject to all terms and provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009; Ord. 2023–21, passed 8-9-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 VEHICULAR COLLISIONS WITH ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person whose vehicle causes injury or death to an animal within the
city limits shall stop at once and assess the extent of the injury as soon as
it is safe to do so.
   (B)   The vehicle operator shall immediately notify the owner of the animal
if known, or animal management either directly or through a local law
enforcement agency. The notification shall include, but not be limited to, a
description of the animal, location of the incident, and an estimate as to the
condition of the animal. If any tag information can be obtained in a safe
manner, this information shall also be given at the time of notification.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 ENTICING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an unauthorized person to enter or invade
another person’s private property within the city limits to capture, and ties
or take any animal out of an enclosure or off the property of the owner, or to
seize an animal at any place while the animal is being accompanied by the owner
or person having custody.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an unauthorized person to entice any animal
away from the property of the person who owns or has custody of the animal
within the city limits. It also shall be unlawful to entice an animal from a
street, alley, or public place within the city limits with the intent to
deprive the owner or person having custody the animal’s possession.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 PERMANENT IDENTIFICATION OF DOGS AND CATS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person who owns a dog or cat in the city shall ensure that each dog
or cat owned by that person bears a permanent means of identification at all
times, such that the animal’s owner can be ascertained accurately, quickly, and
easily.
   (B)   The means of identification required by this section shall be in
addition to any tags required to be worn by dogs or cats by state law or other
provision of this chapter, and shall be either by means of:
      (1)   A microchip implanted in the animal that bears a registered
identification number, and that can be read by a standard microchip scanner; or
      (2)   A permanent tag attached to a durable collar worn, at all times, by
the animal, and bearing the owner’s current name, address, and telephone
number.
   (C)   Each veterinarian or other person in the consolidated city who
implants microchips as contemplated in this section shall make available, upon
request, to the Greenfield Hancock Animal Management the names, addresses, and
phone numbers of the owners of the animals, and the corresponding microchip
identification numbers. Such records shall be available to Greenfield Hancock
Animal Management without court order.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to own a dog or cat three months of
age or older that is kept in the city, and that does not bear a permanent means
of identification as provided in this section. A violation of this section
shall be subject to an admission of violation and payment of the designated
civil penalty under §
90.99 hereof.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 DOG AND CAT CURBING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person knowingly shall allow a dog or cat, which is kept by such
person, to defecate or urinate on a public street, byway, municipally-owned or
public land or building, or upon private property, in the city without the
prior permission of the owner of such property; however, if an animal defecates
on property described in this division (A), the animal’s owner or keeper
promptly shall remove any feces to a waste container, or otherwise dispose of
such material in a manner inoffensive to reasonable public sensibilities.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the owner of a
dog serving a vision-impaired person in an auxiliary ocular capacity or in any
capacity to assist such person with a physical impairment may permit such dog
to relieve itself on ground situated outside of pedestrian or vehicular traffic
ways, and is relieved of the requirement to remove any feces to the extent such
requirement is impractical for a person of such impairment.
   (C)   No person knowingly shall allow his or her dog or cat to disperse
waste material placed for public or private collection upon any public street,
or byway or right-of-way, or any municipally-owned or public land or building,
or upon private property.
   (D)   A person who violates any provision of this section shall be
punishable as provided in §
90.99 hereof; provided, however, a fine imposed for any such violation shall
not be less than $25.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 ANIMALS CAUSING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to own or keep any animal which, by
frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking, screeching, other vocalization,
or otherwise, shall cause serious annoyance or disturbance to persons in the
vicinity.
   (B)   A person who violates any provision of this section shall be
punishable as provided in §
90.99; provided, however, a fine imposed for the first such violation shall not
be less than $25; subsequent or continued violations may also subject the owner
to impoundment of the animal by a person having authority to impound such an
animal.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 LOST OR STRAY DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Persons finding a stray animal are to notify the Greenfield Hancock
Animal Management, or its designee, within 48 hours of finding such animal. At
the discretion of animal management, the animal may be kept by the finder and a
found report left with the division, or its designee, to enable the finder an
opportunity to return the animal to its rightful owner.
   (B)   Upon demand by the Greenfield Hancock Animal Management, any found
animal will be taken to an appropriate facility and scanned for an identifying
microchip.
   (C)   Persons finding an animal are obligated to comply with all the rules
and regulations of this chapter pertaining to humane care and treatment of
animals, while said animal is in his or her custody awaiting return to its
actual owner.
   (D)   With the exception of the Humane Society or other humane and/or breed
rescue organizations recognized by the animal care services division, the
finder will be considered the found animal’s owner for purposes of this
chapter, 14 continuous days after the found report was filed with the animal
care services division or its designee.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 HUMANE EUTHANASIA OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Greenfield Hancock Animal Management, other animal shelters, and/
or public animal facilities which destroy animals in the city shall use only
such methods, materials, and standards as approved by the American Veterinary
Medical Association for said purpose. In no event shall an animal be euthanized
inhumanely.
   (B)   The shelter shall provide sedatives for struggling or vicious animals
when necessary for use during the euthanasia process and train its personnel in
their proper and humane use and administration.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 90.18 INJURED OR DISEASED ANIMALS.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, an injured or
diseased animal need not be retained four days, but may be disposed of at any
time when, in the reasonable discretion of the applicable enforcement
authority, it would be more humane and reasonable to do so, rather than provide
veterinary care.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 90.19 CLASSIFICATION OF NON-COMMERCIAL KENNEL.
   The existence of more than four dogs and/or cats at a residence shall
constitute a non-commercial kennel requiring the owner or person possessing the
animals to obtain a non-commercial kennel license from the Animal Management
Director. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a commercial
kennel at a residence or a residential area. Commercial kennels, as defined,
are permitted in general business, plan business, and industrial zoned areas
per the zoning code of the city. The user fee for a commercial and non-
commercial kennel is hereby established in the amount of $100 as the same may
be subsequently modified from the Board of Public Works from time to time. Both
commercial and non-commercial kennels must comply with Federal Register 9
(C.F.R. part 2) February 15, 1991, Animal Welfare.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 BEES AND BEEKEEPING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      APIARY. The assembly of one or more hives or colonies of bees at a single
location.
      BEE. The common domestic honeybee, limited to the Apis mellifera species,
but specifically excluding the African honeybee, Apis mollifer scutella,
Africanized honeybee, or any hybrid thereof.
      BEEKEEPER. An individual who keeps bees in a hive which meets state-
approved requirements.
      BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT. Anything used in the operation of an apiary, such
as, but not limited to, hive bodies, supers, frames, top and bottom boards, and
extractors.
      CITY. The City of Greenfield, Indiana.
      COLONY. The entire family or social unit living together, including the
queen, workers, and drones.
      FLYWAY BARRIERS. Fencing, dense hedging, or a combination of the two
which provides a shield from the direction in which bees may fly when
approaching or leaving a hive.
      HIVE. A frame or structure used or employed as a domicile for bees which
meets state requirements, and shall be either a Langstroth hive, a Warre hive,
or a top-bar hive.
   (B)   Registration. Every beekeeper has to register with the Clerk-Treasurer
prior to installation of said beekeeper’s initial hive on forms provided by the
Clerk-Treasurer at no cost to the registrant. Said registration form shall be
renewed with the Clerk- Treasurer every two years after initial registration.
   (C)   Presumption of violation. Unless conducted in accordance with the
provisions set forth below, the keeping and maintaining of bees within the
residential districts of the city shall constitute a violation of this section.
      (1)   The minimum lot size to maintain one colony shall be 7,500 square
feet, with an additional 5,000 square feet of lot size for a second hive.
      (2)   The maximum number of hives permitted per property shall be as
follows:
 
Size of Property               Maximum Number
Up to 1/4 acre                 2 colonies
Between 1/4 and up to 1/2 acre 4 colonies
More than 1/2 and up to 1 acre 6 colonies
1 acre                         8 colonies
More than 1 acre               additional 5 colonies per additional whole acre
 
      (3)   (a)   Queens for colonies must be purchased from licensed breeders
or beekeepers.
         (b)   At all times, the beekeeper must keep a queen active in the
colony.
         (c)   Upon evidence that a colony is aggressive, said colony must be
re-queened immediately after the discovery of such evidence.
      (4)   (a)   All colonies shall be situated in a stable apiary, with all
component parts, including hive bodies, supers, frames, top and bottom boards,
and extractors to be maintained in a stable condition.
         (b)   Each hive shall have a maximum internal volume of 16 cubic feet.
      (5)   (a)   Apiaries must be located entirely within the property of the
owner and cannot be located closer than ten feet to any lot line, at least 25
feet from any dwelling/primary structure on a neighboring property, at least 30
feet from any public right-of- way, and no closer than 100 feet to any school,
public park, or playground.
         (b)   All hives must be located in that portion of the yard behind the
existing residence or other primary structure. Hives must have movable frames
and have adequate space to prevent overcrowding and swarming. Hives may be
located on the ground or on top of a building with a permanent foundation.
Hives may not be located inside a dwelling, garage, or any structure, with the
exception of school buildings for educational purposes. Hives must at all times
be maintained inaccessible to the general public.
         (c)   All hives shall be located so that hive entrances face away from
the property line of the adjacent residential lot closest to the bee hive.
      (6)   (a)   The property on which a colony is located shall be surrounded
by a wall, solid fence, dense vegetation, or a combination thereof not less
than six feet in height at the time of installation and extending 20 feet on
either side of the colony in order to provide a sufficient flyway barrier to
keep the bee flight path above normal interaction with nearby residents and
with sufficient wind screening.
         (b)   A flyway barrier of at least six feet in height shall shield any
part of a property line that is within 15 feet of a hive.
         (c)   Said flyway barrier shall be maintained in good repair at all
times.
         (d)   The requirements of division (C)(6)(a) above may be waived if
the colony is placed on a balcony or porch at least ten feet off the ground and
ten feet from any property line.
      (7)   (a)   All hive operators will provide adequate water supply for
bees to discourage bee congregation at off-site water sources such as swimming
pools, ponds, and bird baths.
         (b)   A constant supply of water shall be provided for all hives.
      (8)   All hive operators shall maintain colonies so as to not cause any
unhealthy conditions, interfere with normal use and enjoyment of public
property or the property of others.
      (9)   A sign must be posted on the property warning persons of the
apiary’s presence.
   (D)   Required firebreak. Any person operating a smoker to harvest honey
shall maintain a firebreak 30 feet wide in all directions and will maintain
basic firefighting materials such as shovels, fire extinguishers, and hoses.
The first ten feet shall be free of combustible material and vegetation kept to
less than six inches in height.
   (E)   Right to enter. Nothing in this section shall prohibit members of the
Beekeepers Association from entering the city to remove hives or swarms.
   (F)   Violation. Upon the determination that a violation of this section has
occurred, the appropriate representative of the city shall provide to the
property owner/beekeeper a notice of violation describing the nature of the
violation and allowing the property owner/beekeeper 60 days within which to
bring his or her property into compliance. Thereafter, the city reserves the
right to take all reasonable actions to remedy any violation of this section,
including, but not limited to, the removal or destruction of any hive or colony
which poses a threat to the public health, safety, or welfare or creates a
public nuisance, or which has been abandoned. In addition, any person found to
be in violation of the provisions set forth herein shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in §
90.99.
(Ord. 2019-18, passed 11-13-2019; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Animal Management Director and authorized members of this department
will have the full and unrestricted authority to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009; Ord. 2010-10, passed 6-23-2010; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 90.22 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to interfere with the Animal
Management Director or any Deputy Animal Management Officer in the performance
of their duties, which shall be punishable in accordance with §
90.99(C).
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009; Ord. 2010-10, passed 6-23-2010; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 RIGHT TO ENTER.
   In order to execute inspections related to enforcement of this chapter, the
Animal Control Department Manager, inspectors, or designated agents shall have
the right to enter upon any premises, at any reasonable time, for the purpose
of carrying out his, her, or their duties in association with the enforcement
of this chapter, unless the owner or occupant of the premises refuses to permit
entry to the manager, inspector, or designated agent when entry is sought
pursuant to this section. In the event of this refusal, the manager, inspector,
or authorized agent may petition any judge of the County Circuit or Superior
Court for the issuance of an administrative search warrant. The petition shall
identify the premises upon which entry is sought and the purpose for which
entry is desired. The petition shall state the facts giving rise to the belief
that a condition which is a violation of this chapter exists on the premises,
or that a violation in fact exists and must be abated. Any warrant issued
pursuant to the petition shall order the owner or occupant to grant entry to
the manager, inspector, or designated agent of the Animal Control Department
for the purposes stated herein.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009; Ord. 2010-10, passed 6-23-2010; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 90.24 RECORD OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   The Animal Management Director shall keep a record of all dogs, cats, or
other animals impounded in the animal management facility which record shall
show date of impoundment; the reason thereof; name of the person bringing the
animal to the animal management facility; and the kind, sex, color, breed, and
any identifying collars, tags, tattoos, or marks of the animal impounded.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009; Ord. 2010-10, passed 6-23-2010; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 90.25 OFFICIAL WARNING AND NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION.
   Upon information sufficient to establish a violation of the provisions of
this chapter, the Animal Management Director, or authorized deputy, may issue
to the person committing such violation, or to the owner or person having
custody or control of any animal involved in such violation, either:
   (A)   An official warning stating the name of the person to whom the warning
is being issued, the nature of the violation, the date of the violation, and
any other pertinent information concerning the violation. Such official warning
shall also state that it is only a warning and is neither a notice of code
violation nor a notice to appear to answer to any such violation; or
   (B)   A notice of code violation stating the name of the person to whom the
notice is being issued, the nature of the violation, the fine imposed for such
violation in accordance with this section, the specific section of this chapter
which has been violated, and any other information which is pertinent to the
violation and necessary for a thorough understanding of the circumstances
surrounding such violation. The violation notice shall instruct the person to
whom the violation is being issued that he or she shall appear at the County
Superior Court II to answer to the violation.
§ 90.26 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANIMAL ATTACKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of an animal to allow
that animal to attack and/or injure a person who did not provoke the animal
prior to the attack.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this provision if:
      (1)   The attack occurred in an enclosure in which the animal was
confined without means of escape, there was posted at the main entrance of the
enclosure a notice to beware of the animal, and the person attacked entered the
enclosure without invitation; or
      (2)   The person was attacked during the commission or attempted
commission of a criminal act on the property of the owner or keeper of the
animal.
   (C)   A person who violates any provision of this section shall be
punishable as provided in §
90.99 with the additional provision that if the violation results in the animal
causing serious bodily injury to any person, the Courts of Hancock County,
Indiana, upon request, shall order the animal forfeited and/or destroyed.
(Ord. 2023-21, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fines.
      (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, within five
days of the date of the notice of the chapter violation, shall pay a fine as
follows with a further provision that any second violation within 12 calendar
months of the first violation shall incur a fine of double to the amount listed
below and any third and/or subsequent violation within 12 calendar months of
the first violation shall incur a fine of triple the amount listed below:
Violation Fine
Violation Fine
90.02(A)  $50
90.02(B)  $100
90.02(C)  $200
90.02(D)  $50
90.02(E)  $50
90.03(A)  $100
90.03(B)  $50
90.03(C)  $200
90.03(D)  $100
90.03(E)  $50
90.03(F)  $50
90.03(G)  $50
90.03(H)  $200
90.04     $50
90.05(G)  $50
90.07     $50
90.08     $200
90.09     $100
90.10     $100
90.11     $50
90.12     $50
90.13(D)  $25
90.14     $25
90.15     $25
90.20     $100
90.26     $500
 
      (2)   The fines will be collected by the City Clerk-Treasurer and
transferred to the General Fund.
   (B)   Failure to pay fines. If a violator fails to pay fines or appear at
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office within five days of the date of notice of code
violation, such violation may be filed with the County Court II, and such
violator may be summoned to appear before such court.
   (C)   Penalties. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, the
sections listed in division (A) above upon conviction or a plea of guilty in
the County Superior Court II shall be punished by a fine of not less than $200
and not more than $500. Each day a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate
violation, unless otherwise provided by state law.
   (D)   Restitution. In addition to the fines set forth herein, any person who
violates the provisions of §
90.03(D) shall make full restitution for any damages or injury to persons or
property as a result of such violation, including, but not limited to, medical
expenses, the value of any real or personal property which has been destroyed,
or the cost of repairing any damage to real or personal property.
   (E)   Additional fees and cost. In addition to any fine or penalty set forth
above, if a violation must be prosecuted through the County Superior Court, the
violator, upon conviction, shall pay reasonable attorney fees and court cost as
determined by the court.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 5-27-2009; Ord. 2010-10, passed 6-23-2010; Ord. 2019-18,
passed 11-13-2019; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020; Ord. 2023-21, passed 8-9-
2023)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Title
   
91.002   Purpose
   
91.003   Authority
   
91.004   Applicability
   
91.005   Conflicting provisions
   
91.006   Minimum standards
   
91.007   Effect of adoption on prior ordinances
   
91.008   Definitions
Fire Prevention Bureau Organization
   
91.020   Fire prevention bureaus established; jurisdiction
   
91.021   Organization of Greenfield Fire Territory Fire Prevention Bureau
   
91.022   Enforcement authority
   
91.023   Authority at fires and emergencies
   
91.024   Emergency lines and limits
   
91.025   Fire investigations
   
91.026   Fire and life safety inspections
   
91.027   Emergency entry
Enforcement Responsibility
   
91.040   Enforcement authority
   
91.041   Legal assistance
   
91.042   Law enforcement assistance
Inspections and Investigations
   
91.055   Right to enter buildings and premises
   
91.056   Determination of violation
   
91.057   Notice of violation
   
91.058   Imminent danger
   
91.059   Duty to correct violations
   
91.060   Time limit
   
91.061   Appeal from orders
   
91.062   Local ordinance appeals process
   
91.063   Variances
   
91.064   Records and reports
   
91.065   Remedies
   
91.066   Certificate of occupancy
Emergency Planning
   
91.080   Crowd manager qualifications
   
91.081   When required
   
91.082   Fire watch
Emergency and Standby Power
   
91.095   Emergency lighting activation test
   
91.096   Emergency lighting activation test record
   
91.097   Emergency lighting power test record
Fire Service Features
   
91.110   Address identification
   
91.111   Fire lane markings
   
91.112   Gates and barricades
   
91.113   Greenfield Fire Territory connections, locations, access signage
   
91.114   Marking of fire protection equipment, fire hydrants, and access roads
   
91.115   Greenfield Fire Territory access roads
   
91.116   Key boxes
   
91.117   Water supply
   
91.118   Fire flow requirements
   
91.119   Fire hydrants
   
91.120   Emergency communications
Fire Protection Systems
   
91.135   Construction documents
   
91.136   Smoke detector, smoke alarm requirements in dwellings
   
91.137   Hose connections, locations, access and signage
   
91.138   Means of egress continuity
   
91.139   Exit stairwell identification
Fire Protection Equipment
   
91.150   Portable fire extinguishers
   
91.151   Portable fire extinguisher servicing
   
91.152   Requirements for kitchen exhaust equipment, fire protection equipment
   
91.153   Qualified contractors
   
91.154   Unlawful interference with fire protection equipment, barricades,
devices, signs, and seals
Fire Reporting Systems
   
91.165   Scope
   
91.166   Notification upon fire alarm activation
   
91.167   Faulty alarms
Fees and Charges
   
91.180   Fire and life safety inspection fees
Permits
   
91.195   Pyrotechnic displays require certificate of insurance
Miscellaneous Safety Provisions
   
91.210   Consumer fireworks
   
91.211   Vacated or abandoned buildings
   
91.212   Smoking
   
91.213   Underground storage tanks
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the “Fire Prevention Ordinance of Greenfield, Indiana”.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect life, public safety, and the
environment, health, and general welfare of the citizens of the city, and shall
be construed in such a manner so as to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.003 AUTHORITY.
   The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, is hereby authorized and
directed to administer and enforce the following:
   (A)   All provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.004 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are supplemental to the State General
Administrative Rules (GAR), State Fire Code, State Building Code, State
Mechanical Code, and State Fuel Gas Code as adopted by the State Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to the maintenance of fire and life safety features as herein described.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to existing conditions as well as to
the conditions arising after the adoption thereof.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.005 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any
building, zoning, safety, health, or other applicable law or ordinance of the
city, whether existing on the effective date of this chapter or later adopted,
the provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of the safety and welfare of the public applies.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.006 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   All fire safety rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in 675 IAC Articles 12, 13, 18, 22, and 25 are hereby
incorporated in this chapter, and shall include later amendments to that
article as published in the State Register or the Indiana Administrative Code,
with effective dates as fixed therein.
   (B)   Any special processes or procedures not addressed in 675 IAC 22 or
this chapter shall be subject to applications found in the fire safety
standards recognized by the State Fire Code, 675 IAC 22, referenced standards,
and as approved by the Fire Chief or appointed designee.
   (C)   Any special processes or procedures not addressed in this chapter
shall be subject to applications found in the current editions of the National
Fire Protection Association standards or other recognized fire safety
standards, subject to the rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission.
   (D)   A current copy of these standards shall be available in the office of
each fire prevention bureau for inquiry and review by the public during normal
business hours.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.007 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this chapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter. Such rights, liabilities, and other proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed
or amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.008 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Where terms are not defined in this chapter and are defined in the
General Administrative Rules, State Building Code, State Fire Code, State
Mechanical Code, and State Fuel Gas Code, such terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as in those codes. Where terms are not defined through the
methods authorized, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as
the context implies.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING CODE. The State Building Code, 675 IAC 13.
      CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-4.
      CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-5.
      COMMISSION. The State Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, as
established by I.C. 22-12-2.
      CROWD MANAGER. Has the meaning as ascribed in 675 IAC 22.
      DIVISION OF FIRE AND BUILDING SAFETY. The Division of Fire and Building
Safety of the State Department of Homeland Security, created pursuant to I.C.
10-19-7-1.
      FIRE CHIEF. The chief officer of the Greenfield Fire Territory and the
City Fire Prevention Bureau.
      FIRE CODE. The State Fire Code, 675 IAC 22.
      FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU. The fire prevention bureau established by this
chapter for the city.
      FIRE PREVENTION CHIEF. The administrative head of a fire prevention
bureau appointed pursuant to §§
91.020 or
91.022 of this chapter.
      FUEL GAS CODE. The State Fuel Gas Code, 675 IAC 25.
      GAR. The General Administrative Rules, 675 IAC 12, of the State Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      HAZARDOUS CONDITION. The presence of a structural condition, equipment,
utility connection, or material which constitutes or poses a recognized threat
of fire or other injury to persons or property.
      IAC. The Indiana Administrative Code.
      I.C. The Indiana Code of the State General Assembly.
      MECHANICAL CODE. The State Mechanical Code, 675 IAC 18.
      NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A written notice issued by the Greenfield Fire
Territory, usually in the form of an inspection report listing violation(s).
      OWNER. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in 675 IAC 22.
      PERSON. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-18.
      QUALIFIED PERSON. A person who either holds current National Institute
for Certification in Engineering Technologies (NICET) certification in the fire
protection system being installed, serviced, or repaired, or who has
successfully completed a course of instruction specific to the equipment being
installed, serviced, or repaired. Such instruction shall have been approved by
the manufacturer of the equipment or its authorized representative.
(Ord. passed - -)
FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU ORGANIZATION
§ 91.020 FIRE PREVENTION BUREAUS ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION.
   There is hereby established a local Fire Prevention Bureau within the
Greenfield Fire Territory and within Center Township, located within Hancock
County, which is not completely within the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.021 ORGANIZATION OF GREENFIELD FIRE TERRITORY FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU.
   The Fire Prevention Bureau of the Greenfield Fire Territory shall be under
the supervision of the Fire Prevention Chief, appointed pursuant to the
applicable personnel rules of the Greenfield Fire Territory under Chapter 35 of
this code.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.022 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, shall possess the
authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter, the State General
Administrative Rules, State Fire Code, State Building Code, State Mechanical
Code, State Fuel Gas Code, or any other rule of the Commission.
   (B)   Such enforcement shall include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The prevention of fires;
      (2)   The handling, storage, sale, and use of flammable liquids,
explosives, combustibles, and hazardous materials;
      (3)   The adequacy of means of egress from all places in which numbers of
people live, work, or congregate from time to time for any purpose;
      (4)   The location, installation, and maintenance of smoke alarms, fire
alarm systems, and fire suppression systems; and
      (5)   The existence of recognized hazardous conditions that present a
clear and immediate hazard to life and property.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, shall have the authority
to initiate legal action in accordance with locally prescribed remedies
applicable to violations of the State General Administrative Rules, State Fire
Code, State Building Code, State Mechanical Code, State Fuel Gas Code, this
chapter, or any other rule of the Commission. Violators of this chapter may be
cited into any court having jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.023 AUTHORITY AT FIRES AND EMERGENCIES.
   The Fire Chief or such designated officer of the Greenfield Fire Territory
in charge at the scene of a fire or other emergency involving the protection of
life or property, or any part thereof, shall have the authority to direct such
operation as necessary to extinguish or control any fire, perform any rescue
operation, investigate the existence of suspected or reported fires, gas leaks,
or other hazardous conditions or situations, or take any other action necessary
in the reasonable performance of duty. In the exercise of such power, the Fire
Chief is authorized to prohibit any person, vehicle or vessel from approaching
the scene, and is authorized to remove, or cause to be removed or kept away
from the scene, any person, vehicle, or vessel which could impede or interfere
with the operations of the Greenfield Fire Territory and any person not
actually and usefully employed in the extinguishing of such fire or in the
preservation of property in the vicinity thereof.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.024 EMERGENCY LINES AND LIMITS.
   (A)   Barricades. The Fire Chief or such designated officer of the
Greenfield Fire Territory in charge at the scene of an emergency is authorized
to place ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across any street,
alley, place, or private property in the vicinity of such emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the lawful efforts of the Greenfield
Fire Territory to manage and control the emergency and to handle fire
apparatus.
   (B)   Obstructing operations. No person shall obstruct the operations of the
Greenfield Fire Territory in connection with the extinguishment or control of
any fire, or actions relative to other emergencies, or disobey any lawful
command of the Fire Chief or officer of the Greenfield Fire Territory in charge
of the emergency, or any part thereof, or any lawful order of a police officer
assisting the Greenfield Fire Territory.
   (C)   Systems and devices. No person shall render a system or device
inoperative during an emergency unless by direction of the Fire Chief or
Greenfield Fire Territory official in charge of the incident.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.025 FIRE INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, shall perform fire
investigations pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17-7. The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s
designee, is authorized to conduct an origin and cause investigation of all
fires and explosions within the service district of the Fire Territory.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to impede the Fire Chief, or the
Fire Chief’s designee, from conducting an origin and cause investigation.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.026 FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, shall conduct fire and
life safety inspections in Class 1 structures pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17-8. Upon
the request of an owner or a primary lessee who resides in a private dwelling,
the Greenfield Fire Territory may inspect the interior of the private dwelling
to determine compliance with I.C. 22-11-18-3.5.
   (B)   The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, shall inspect Class 1
structures as often as necessary for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
correct any violation of the State General Assembly Rules, State Fire Code,
State Building Code, State Fuel Gas Code, this chapter, or any fire safety law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.027 EMERGENCY ENTRY.
   The Greenfield Fire Territory shall have the right to enter any building or
premises without permission or warrant in the event of any emergency situation
constituting a threat to human life, property, or public safety for the purpose
of eliminating, controlling, or abating the dangerous condition or situation.
(Ord. passed - -)
ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY
§ 91.040 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Greenfield Fire Territory shall have the responsibility to enforce
all provisions of this chapter within its jurisdiction.
   (B)   The Greenfield Fire Territory shall have such other powers and duties
as may be conferred from time to time by law or ordinance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.041 LEGAL ASSISTANCE.
   Either fire prevention bureau may obtain the services of the City Law
Director in connection with the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.042 LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE.
   The Chief of the City Police Department or the County Sherriff may, upon
request of the Fire Chief or the Fire Prevention Bureau Chief, assign such
available law enforcement officers as may be necessary to assist the Greenfield
Fire Territory or a fire prevention bureau in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS
§ 91.055 RIGHT TO ENTER BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   Authorized personnel of the Greenfield Fire Territory may, at all reasonable
hours, enter any structure (except private dwellings) within the city or within
Center Township in this county for the purpose of conducting inspections or
investigations pursuant to this chapter. Except for the interior of private
dwellings, the right to enter shall extend to new structures under construction
as well as to existing structures being renovated or remodeled. An inspector or
investigator may be required by the owner or occupant to produce satisfactory
proof of authority or identity. If an inspector or investigator is denied
access, the Fire Marshal may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an
order allowing inspection.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.056 DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, determines by
inspection that an apparent or actual violation of the State General
Administrative Rules, State Fire Code, State Building Code, State Mechanical
Code, State Fuel Gas Code, this chapter, or any other rule of the Commission or
that a hazardous condition exists upon any Class 1 structure within the Fire
Territory service area, the person making such determination shall issue such
notice of violation or order as may be necessary for the enforcement of the
State General Administrative Rules, State Fire Code, State Building Code, State
Mechanical Code, State Fuel Gas Code, this chapter, or any other rule of the
Commission.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.057 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Under I.C. 36-8-17-9, an order of enforcement of the State General
Administrative Rules, State Fire Code, State Building Code, State Mechanical
Code, State Fuel Gas Code, this chapter, or any other rule of the Commission
which is within the jurisdiction of the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s
designee, may seek the correction of any violation or the elimination of any
hazardous condition by the methods specified in this chapter or by any other
appropriate remedy or procedure provided by law. The failure of the Greenfield
Fire Territory to inspect or to issue a notice of violation or order in
accordance with this chapter shall not constitute approval of any violation or
noncompliance.
   (B)   Any notice of violation or order issued pursuant to this section shall
be conveyed upon the owner, operator, occupant, or other person responsible for
the building or property. Conveyance of such order shall be by one of the
following methods: personal service (by affixing a copy thereof in a
conspicuous place at the entrance of said building or premises); by mailing a
copy thereof to such responsible person by first-class mail to his or her last
known address; or any other method permitted under I.C. 4-21.5-3.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.058 IMMINENT DANGER.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, may stop an operation or
require the evacuation of any Class 1 structure or portion thereof under the
provisions of I.C. 36-8-17-9 when it is determined that conduct or conditions
of the property:
      (1)   Present a clear and immediate hazard of death or serious bodily
injury to any person other than a trespasser;
      (2)   Is prohibited without a permit, registration, certification,
authorization, variance, exemption, or other license required under I.C. 22-14,
another state statute, or a rule of the Commission; or
      (3)   Will conceal a violation of law.
   (B)   An order under this section must be approved by the State Fire Marshal
in accordance with I.C. 36-8-17-9 and shall be in writing, specifying whether
it is applicable to the entire structure, part of the structure, or the
property under development. The order shall state the reason for issuance and
the conditions under which the structure, part of the structure, or property
may be occupied or construction continued. The order shall be posted on the
structure in a conspicuous location and, if conveniently possible, shall be
given to the owner of the property or his or her agent and to any other
responsible person supervising work on the premises.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.059 DUTY TO CORRECT VIOLATIONS.
   The owner or person in control of any premises or building upon which a
violation or hazard exists shall:
   (A)   Cease and correct the violation; and
   (B)   Protect persons and property from the hazards of the violation.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.060 TIME LIMIT.
   Orders shall set forth a time limit for compliance dependent upon the hazard
created by the violation(s).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.061 APPEAL FROM ORDERS.
   An owner or occupant who remains aggrieved by an order or decision issued
pursuant to this chapter, and the matter involves a rule of the State Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission, may appeal to the State Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set forth by I.C. 36-8-17.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.062 LOCAL ORDINANCE APPEALS PROCESS.
   An order enforcing a fire safety law issued by the Fire Marshal or any of
the inspectors may, within 24 hours, be appealed to the Chief of the Greenfield
Fire Territory, who within five days shall review such order and file his or
her decision thereon, and unless by his or her authority the order is revoked
or modified, it shall remain in full force and be complied with at the time
fixed in said order or decision of the Chief of the Greenfield Fire Territory.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.063 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Requests for a variance from the rules of the Commission must be made
to the State Department of Homeland Security in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-
11.
   (B)   (1)   An owner or occupant requesting a variance from the provisions
of this chapter that are not contained in a rule of the Commission set forth by
I.C. 22-13-2-11 shall apply in writing to the applicable fire prevention chief.
      (2)   The granting of a variance shall be considered only upon the
written application of the owner of the property, stating that:
         (a)   Practical difficulties have been encountered in the
implementation of specific requirements of this chapter;
         (b)   Compliance with specific requirements of this chapter will cause
unnecessary hardship to the owner; and
         (c)   The owner desires to take advantage of new methods or equipment
which is recognized as adequate for the purpose for which they are to be
substituted.
   (C)   A variance may be granted only if the fire prevention chief determines
in writing that:
      (1)   The requested use or modification will conform with fundamental
requirements for safety; and
      (2)   The granting of the variance does not increase the risk of fire or
danger to the public. A copy of any variance granted shall be retained by the
Fire Prevention Bureau.
   (D)   A variance shall be enforced in the same manner as an order issued
under §
91.058 of this chapter.
   (E)   Whenever a Fire Prevention Bureau learns that an owner is in violation
of the terms of a variance issued pursuant to this section, the Fire Prevention
Chief may order compliance, as provided in §
91.057, with the variance or with this chapter.
   (F)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(c), variances granted by political
subdivisions to the fire safety laws and building laws adopted in its
ordinances are not effective until approved by the Commission.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.064 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The Greenfield Fire Territory shall keep a record of all fires and the
facts concerning them, including statistics as to the extent of fires and the
losses sustained. Such reports shall be prepared into an annual summary and
submitted to the jurisdictional fire chief. The annual summary, together with
recommendations for change, shall be submitted, when requested, to the Director
of the Department of Public Safety or appropriate Township Trustee.
   (B)   The Greenfield Fire Territory shall maintain files containing reports
of all properties that have been inspected, all orders issued, all complaints
and fires investigated, and the location of all buildings containing hazardous
occupancies. Reports of inspections shall be submitted to the Division of Fire
and Building Safety in accordance with I.C. 36-8-17-8. Investigations of fires
shall be submitted to the Division of Fire and Building Safety in accordance
with I.C. 36-8-17-7.
   (C)   Companies providing periodic inspections of fire protection systems
such as fire sprinklers, fire pumps, fire alarms, kitchen hood suppression, or
clean agent shall submit a copy of their inspection reporting through the
Mobile Eyes Software Contractor Portal, as authorized by the Greenfield Fire
Territory.
   (D)   Fire investigation reports shall not be distributed to the public when
requested under public record law until the fire investigation, including any
criminal investigation, has been completed. A criminal investigation is
considered to be complete when either formal criminal charge(s) are filed or a
decision declining to do so has been made.
   (E)   Persons treated for second- and third-degree chemical, flash, and
thermal burns to 10% or more of the body or any burn to the upper respiratory
tract shall be reported to the State Fire Marshal’s office in accordance with
I.C. 35-47-7-3.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.065 REMEDIES.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter or who shall fail
to comply with any order issued under this chapter, or who shall fail to comply
with or to obtain any permit required hereunder, shall be subject to penalties
prescribed in §
91.999 of this chapter. After each day a violation continues, it shall
constitute an additional violation.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.066 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Inspection. Prior to the occupancy of any newly-constructed structure
or tenant area, an inspection and approval must be given by the City Building
Inspector and the Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal, or their respective
designees. After the final inspection occurs, a certificate of occupancy shall
be signed by the City Building Official and the Fire Marshal. This will then
allow the occupant to start moving into that building. Occupancy prior to the
issuance of the certificate of occupancy shall result in a fine as set forth in
the City Building Code.
   (B)   Acceptance testing. Prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy for a newly-constructed, renovated, or remodeled Class 1 structure,
the Greenfield Fire Territory is required to witness a successful acceptance or
performance test in accordance with the appropriate installation standard or
manufacturer’s specifications for the following systems (if applicable):
      (1)   Fire alarm system;
      (2)   Sprinkler system;
      (3)   Special hazard fire suppression system; and
      (4)   Type I hood exhaust system.
   (C)   Written verification. Prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy for a newly-constructed, renovated, or remodeled Class 1 structure,
the Greenfield Fire Territory requires written verification that each fire
protection and life safety system has been installed in complete agreement with
the terms of the manufacturer’s instructions, the listing, and the applicable
installation standards.
   (D)   Installation documents. Prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy for a newly- constructed, renovated, or remodeled Class 1 structure,
the Greenfield Fire Territory requires the following documentation (if
applicable):
      (1)   Record of Completion for Fire Alarm Systems, as required by NFPA
72;
      (2)   Contractor’s Material and Test Certificate for Aboveground Piping
for Sprinkler and Standpipe Systems, as required by NFPA 24;
      (3)   Contractor’s Material and Test Certificate for Underground Piping
for Private Fire Service Mains, Fire Hydrants, and Piping, as required by NFPA
13 and 24;
      (4)   Certificate of Completion I Installation for All Special Hazard
Fire Suppression Systems; and
      (5)   Air Balance Test Report (Type I and II exhaust hoods).
(Ord. passed - -)
EMERGENCY PLANNING
§ 91.080 CROWD MANAGER QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Crowd managers shall receive training as provided for in the State
Fire Code § 604, approved by the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s designee, in
crowd management techniques.
   (B)   Crowd managers shall be:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age;
      (2)   The owner or operator of the business, or under the direct control
and supervision of said owner or operator; and
      (3)   Responsible for:
         (a)   Maintaining clear paths of egress, assuring that the facility
does not exceed its occupant load limit, initiating a fire alarm if necessary,
and directing occupants to exits;
         (b)   Assuring general fire and life safety awareness of employees and
occupants, including assuring that exit announcements are made; and
         (c)   Utilizing portable fire extinguishers as necessary.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.081 WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Requirement. One trained crowd manager or crowd manager supervisor
shall be provided for assembly occupancies. In the event the occupant load
exceeds 250, additional trained crowd managers or crowd manager supervisors
shall be provided at a ratio of one crowd manager or crowd manager supervisor
for every 250 occupants.
   (B)   Exception. For assembly occupancies used exclusively for religious
worship with an occupant load not exceeding 2,000, the ratio of trained crowd
managers to occupants may be reduced, if approved by the Fire Chief or the Fire
Chief’s designee, when the existence of an approved, supervised automatic
sprinkler system and the nature of the event warrant a reduction. Conversely,
the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, shall require a fire watch in
accordance with 675 IAC 22 if conditions or the nature of the activity warrant.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.082 FIRE WATCH.
   In addition to the requirements in § 403.1 of the 2014 State Fire Code,
every fire watch shall have one qualified, approved person for every 250 people
of occupant load. If the fire watch is performed by a member of the Greenfield
Fire Territory, the rates for each firefighter can be found in §
35.35 of this code.
(Ord. passed - -)
EMERGENCY AND STANDBY POWER
§ 91.095 EMERGENCY LIGHTING ACTIVATION TEST.
   An activation test of the emergency lighting equipment shall be completed
monthly. The activation test shall ensure the emergency lighting activates
automatically upon normal electrical disconnect and stays sufficiently
illuminated for a minimum of 30 seconds.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.096 EMERGENCY LIGHTING ACTIVATION TEST RECORD.
   Records for the activation tests shall be maintained on the premises for a
minimum of three years and submitted to the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s
designee, upon request. The record must include the location of the emergency
lighting tested, whether the unit passed or failed, the date of the test, and
the person completing the test.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.097 EMERGENCY LIGHTING POWER TEST RECORD.
   The annual 90-minute power test shall be maintained on the premises for a
minimum of three years and submitted to the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s
designee, upon request. The record shall include the location of the emergency
lighting tested, whether the unit passed or failed, the date of the test, and
the person completing the test.
(Ord. passed - -)
FIRE SERVICE FEATURES
§ 91.110 ADDRESS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Purpose and scope. This section is to provide requirements to clearly
identify and mark proper addresses on buildings located in the city or in
Center Township of this county. This section applies to existing buildings and
new buildings, including buildings under construction.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Approved numbers or addresses on a contrasting background shall be
placed above the doorway or in such a position so as to be plainly visible and
legible from either direction of approach from the street or road fronting the
property. The minimum size dimensions of the numbers shall be as specified in
division (C) below. Where a building or buildings are set back from the street
or road fronting the property and where addresses may not be clearly
identifiable due to distance from the street or roadway or to visual
obstructions such as landscaping or architectural features, address or number
posting shall be required both at the street driveway serving such buildings
and on the buildings.
      (2)   Multi-tenant buildings such as commercial strip centers will have
the address on the rear door of their business as well. Residential homes
(single-family), individual condominiums, commercial suites, and apartments
shall have numbers or letters installed in accordance with the scope of this
policy and division (C) below. In addition, minimum six-inch-high numbers, with
a seven-eighths-inch stroke, must be used to indicate apartment range numbers.
On individual dwellings, a minimum four-inch-high number, with three-fourths-
inch stroke, must be used.
   (C)   Minimum size dimensions.
 
Occupancy                     Number Height  Stroke Width
Commercial/industrial         6 to 12 inches 1-1/2 inches
Multiple-unit residential (a) 6 to 12 inches 1-1/2 inches
Single-family and duplex      4 inches       3/4 inch
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.111 FIRE LANE MARKINGS.
   The location of fire lanes shall be established by the Fire Chief, or the
Fire Chief’s designee. The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, can require
signage or striping or any combination. Design of the fire lane markings shall
be approved by the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee. The erection of
and maintenance of fire lane marking signs and striping shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the private property upon which such lane
marking signs and striping is to be installed. All markings shall remain in
good visible condition as determined by the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s
designee. The parking or standing of any obstruction, including motor vehicles,
within established fire lane markings on private or public property shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.112 GATES AND BARRICADES.
   (A)   In accordance with this chapter and § 503.5 of the 2014 State Fire
Code, the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, is authorized to approve
the installation of required gates or other barricades across fire apparatus
access roads, trails, or other access ways, not including public streets,
alleys, or highways. Approved gates or barricades shall be maintained by the
property owner.
   (B)   When a property is accessed through a gate or crossarm by means of a
key or swipe card, it shall be equipped with a key switch manufactured by the
Knox Company. The switch will be keyed to the Greenfield Fire Territory Knox
key. The location to be installed will be determined by the Fire Chief or the
Fire Chief’s designee. This section shall apply to Class 1 structures as well.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.113 GREENFIELD FIRE TERRITORY CONNECTIONS, LOCATIONS, ACCESS SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Greenfield Fire Territory connections shall be located after
consulting with the Greenfield Fire Territory’s Fire Prevention Chief or the
Fire Prevention Chief’s designee. The location shall be determined with respect
to fire hydrants, Greenfield Fire Territory access roads, apparatus water
supply lines that will not obstruct other incoming apparatus, buildings,
utilities, and landscaping.
   (B)   Immediate access to Greenfield Fire Territory connections shall be
maintained at all times and without obstruction by fences, bushes, trees,
walls, or other fixed objects. Clearance and signage shall be in accordance
with 675 IAC 22.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.114 MARKING OF FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT, FIRE HYDRANTS, AND ACCESS ROADS.
   (A)   Fire protection equipment and fire hydrants shall be clearly
identified in a manner approved by the Greenfield Fire Territory to prevent
obstruction by parking and other obstructions.
   (B)   Fire apparatus access roads shall be constructed in accordance with
the requirements in 675 IAC 22 and shall be identified as fire access roads,
and the provisions set forth in §
91.111 shall apply.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.115 GREENFIELD FIRE TERRITORY ACCESS ROADS.
   As authorized in § 503.1.2 of the 2014 State Fire Code, a minimum of two
means of access shall be provided for:
   (A)   Any subdivision with 50 or more single- or two-family residential
lots;
   (B)   Any development having one or more commercial, multi-family, or
industrial structures three stories or greater in height; or
   (C)   Any development having three or more commercial, multi-family, or
industrial structures of any height.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.116 KEY BOXES.
   (A)   Any new Class 1 structure that is protected by an automatic sprinkler
system or fire alarm system which sends a local or transmitted signal, and
where access to or within such structure, or an area on that property, is
unduly difficult because of secure openings, and where immediate access is
necessary for lifesaving or firefighting purposes or property preservation, the
Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee , shall require a key box or other
rapid entry product to be installed in an approved location(s). All key boxes
shall be purchased from Knox Box Corporation.
   (B)   The key box shall contain:
      (1)   Keys to locked points of ingress, whether on the interior or
exterior of such buildings;
      (2)   Keys to locked mechanical equipment rooms;
      (3)   Keys to locked electrical rooms;
      (4)   Keys to elevator controls;
      (5)   Keys to other areas as directed by the fire official;
      (6)   Keys to post indicator valves controlling the water supply for fire
sprinkler systems; and
      (7)   Fire alarm control panels.
   (C)   Alert decals approved by the Fire Chief to alert fire companies to the
presence of security features covered by this chapter shall be displayed on any
outside doors or windows designated by the fire official.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.117 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   A water supply capable of supplying the required fire flow for
firefighting purposes, as determined by §
91.118 of this chapter, must be provided to all premises or property upon which
a Class 1 structure, or a portion of a Class 1 structure, is hereafter
constructed.
   (B)   The water supply shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   When a municipal water supply is available and contingent to the
premises or property, fire hydrants and mains shall be installed and capable of
providing the required fire flow as determined by §
91.118 of this chapter. When a public water supply is not available to a
premises, the water supply shall consist of a pond, stream, river, canal, lake,
reservoir, quarry, pressure tank, elevated tank, swimming pool, other fixed
system, or a fire department-delivered portable system capable of providing the
required fire flow.
      (2)   (a)   The on-site water supply shall be accessible to the
Greenfield Fire Territory and be located within 150 feet of the Class 1
structure being protected with an automatic fire extinguishing system. If the
on-site water supply is not within 150 feet of the structure being protected,
the water supply shall be connected to on-site fire hydrants and mains capable
of supplying the required fire flow. The owner shall verify the water supply
requirements with the Greenfield Fire Territory prior to final design and
construction.
         (b)   For buildings under construction, a water source approved by the
Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s designee that is capable of supplying the
required fire flow shall be made available prior to allowing combustible
material to accumulate at the job site. Fire hydrants shall be located within
400 feet of the structure under construction. Fire hydrants shall be maintained
clear and accessible for fire protection during all phases of construction.
Water for construction purposes taken from hydrants shall in no way impede the
Greenfield Fire Territory’s use of the hydrants in emergencies.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.118 FIRE FLOW REQUIREMENTS.
   In determining the requirements for fire flow, the Fire Chief, or the Fire
Chief’s designee , shall utilize 675 IAC 22 Appendix B, “Fire Flow Requirements
for Buildings”, and 675 IAC 22 Appendix C, “Fire Hydrant Locations and
Distribution”, as a guide. The requirements in Appendices B and C may not be
made more stringent by the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.119 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All private hydrants and water mains shall be installed and maintained
as set forth in the current adopted edition of NFPA Standard No. 24 under the
rules of the Commission. The Fire Chief, in determining the location and
spacing of hydrants, shall use the 2014 IFC (675 IAC 22) Appendix C as a guide.
   (B)   The proposed location of private fire hydrants to supply the required
fire flow shall be approved by the Greenfield Fire Territory prior to the
construction of any Class 1 structure or any addition to a Class 1 structure.
One fire hydrant shall be installed within 100 feet of any Greenfield Fire
Territory connection that serves a standpipe and/or sprinkler system, or as
required by the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s designee.
   (C)   Fire hydrant assemblies (includes anchor tee, valve, valve box,
adapter pipe Stortz connection shall be added to the large hydrant outlet, and
hydrant) approved by the city:
      (1)   For tees, a mechanical joint with six- inch branch line for
anchoring and locking hydrant assembly in place without thrust blocks; Clow
Part No. F-1217, American Part No. A-10180, or Tyler Pipe Part No. 5-125;
include split gland;
      (2)   Valve and valve box;
      (3)   For adapter pipes, six-inch diameter by two-foot-long minimum for
locking valve to hydrant;
      (4)   For hydrants, AWWA C502, five and one-fourth-inch valve opening
with six-inch barrel; two nozzles of two and one-half inches, one nozzle of
five inches, ground line breakable flange, self- draining, stainless steel bolt
threads, and operating nut sizes conforming to municipality standards; Mueller
Super Centurion and Kennedy K81 Guardian are accepted;
      (5)   For pipe couplings, suitable for size and gap between pipes being
coupled; Dresser Styles 38, 138, 40, or accepted substitution;
      (6)   Number 24 sand is the only backfill allowed for all pipe materials
and sizes. Number eight stone is the only material to be placed around hydrant
drain holes;
      (7)   For color, public hydrants will have the barrels painted safety
yellow. The two and one-half- inch hose caps will be painted the color of the
size of the main to which the hydrant leg is attached;
      (8)   Private hydrants will have the barrels painted safety yellow and
the bonnets painted to match the two and one-half-inch hose caps. These caps
will be painted the color of the size of the main to which the hydrant leg is
attached; and
      (9)   For color reference:
 
Main Size    Color
6-inch main  red
8-inch main  green
10-inch main black
12-inch main yellow
16-inch main orange
20-inch main gold
 
   (D)   (1)   The installation of private fire service mains shall meet the
following criteria.
         (a)   Six-inch dead-end fire service mains that supply one fire
hydrant shall not exceed 150 feet in length.
         (b)   Eight-inch dead-end fire service mains that supply one fire
hydrant shall not exceed 500 feet in length.
         (c)   A dead-end fire service main that supplies a building fire
protection system and one or more fire hydrants shall be a minimum of eight
inches in diameter.
         (d)   A fire service main that supplies four or more fire hydrants
shall be tapped off a distribution supply main in two separate areas (looped).
      (2)   Whenever the provisions of this chapter require the installation of
a fire hydrant, whether on public or private property, such hydrant shall meet
the following specifications.
         (a)   It shall be equipped with a five and one-fourth-inch main valve
opening with a Storz connection.
         (b)   It shall be equipped with two hose nozzles of two and one-half
inches with seven and one-half national standard threads per inch.
         (c)   It shall be equipped with one steamer nozzle of four and one-
half inches with six “V” threads per inch.
         (d)   It shall be constructed to be opened by turning clockwise a
national-standard pentagon operating nut.
         (e)   The source of the water supply shall be buried a minimum of five
feet below ground level at the hydrant and shall be constructed with a break-
off feature to prevent the hydrant from leaking when damaged by collision.
         (f)   The hydrant shall be installed so the centerline of the hose
outlets is a minimum of 18 inches above finished grade, which shall include
final landscaping where applicable.
   (E)   Nonfunctional hydrants shall not be located within 20 feet of any
water line easement.
   (F)   Only approved hydrant wrenches shall be used to open or close a fire
hydrant.
   (G)   A three-foot clearance must be maintained around a fire hydrant.
   (H)   Private hydrants shall be inspected and tested on an annual basis by a
testing company to verify the flow and proper operation. The owner will
maintain a copy of the test certification on the premises and send copies to
the Greenfield Fire Territory. All hydrants shall be maintained in proper
working order. Maintenance to be performed by the testing company should
consist of greasing outlets, greasing the stem, and flow-testing the hydrant.
All test records shall be submitted to the Greenfield Fire Territory.
   (I)   All other dead-end mains shall be capable of supplying the required
fire flow and shall meet water company and/or NFPA Standard No. 24 requirements
and be approved. Buildings having a required fire flow of 3,500 gpm or more
shall have hydrants served by a main that loops the building or complex of
buildings and reconnects back into a distribution supply main in a separate
location.
   (J)   For the installation of dry-barrel hydrants, follow NFPA 1142 edition
for installation, as referenced by the Commission. Contact the Greenfield Fire
Territory having jurisdiction for testing after the completion of installation.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.120 EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS.
   Any time a Class 1 structure is being built in the city and in Center
Township, the owner of the building shall contact the Fire Marshal for
information on emergency communications equipment that may be required to be
installed into the building. This equipment is a radio repeater system that is
used to assist fire agencies inside the building. It will allow the county’s
emergency communications radio system to function properly inside the new
building.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
§ 91.135 CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Plans for fire alarm systems, water-based fire protection systems,
fire pumps, special hazard fire suppression systems, high-piled storage
arrangements, and firestop systems shall be submitted for review to the City
Planning Department.
   (B)   Each applicable submittal must contain the following information:
      (1)   Sprinkler/standpipe systems.
         (a)   One full set of Sprinkler I standpipe plans;
         (b)   One full set of Sprinkler I standpipe calculations;
         (c)   One copy of the sprinkler construction design release (CDR); and
         (d)   One set of manufacturer’s cut- sheets for all sprinkler heads in
the design.
      (2)   Fire alarm systems.
         (a)   One full set of fire alarm plans;
         (b)   One set of battery calculations;
         (c)   One copy of the fire alarm construction design release (CDR);
         (d)   One set of manufacturer’s cut- sheets for the fire alarm control
panel (FACP) and fire alarm components; and
         (e)   One fire alarm sequence of operation matrix.
      (3)   Special hazard fire protection systems.
         (a)   One set of plans (if applicable);
         (b)   One set of engineering data (if applicable);
         (c)   One copy of the construction design release (if applicable); and
         (d)   One set of manufacturer’s cut- sheets for system components.
      (4)   Fire pumps.
         (a)   One copy of the manufacturer’s fire pump specifications; and
         (b)   One copy of the manufacturer’s certified pump test
characteristic curve.
      (5)   Firestop systems.
         (a)   Through-penetration firestop systems;
         (b)   Membrane-penetration firestop systems;
         (c)   Fire-resistant joint systems;
         (d)   Perimeter fire barrier systems; and
         (e)   Fire-rated duct and air-transfer openings.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.136 SMOKE DETECTOR, SMOKE ALARM REQUIREMENTS IN DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Smoke detectors or smoke alarms required by 675 IAC 13 or 675 IAC 14
shall have a power supply as specified by the respective code. All other
residential smoke detectors or smoke alarms may be powered by an AC power
source or a battery.
      (1)   If the smoke detector or smoke alarm is solely AC powered and the
manufacturer does not supply installation specifications, it shall be directly
attached to a junction box with power supplied either from a dedicated branch
circuit or the unswitched portion of a branch circuit also used for power and
lighting; such installation shall be in accordance with 675 IAC 17.
      (2)   (a)   If the smoke detector or smoke alarm is solely powered by a
battery, such battery shall be a nonremovable, nonreplaceable battery capable
of powering the smoke detector or smoke alarm for a minimum of ten years.
         (b)   For any dwelling unit requiring a nonremovable, nonreplaceable
battery capable of powering the smoke detector or smoke alarm for a minimum of
ten years, as provided in division (A)(2) above, it shall satisfy the
requirements of division (A)(2) above that any noncompliant smoke detector or
smoke alarm installed in such dwelling unit prior to August 1, 2014, be
replaced with a compliant smoke detector or smoke alarm at such time as such
noncompliant smoke detector or smoke alarm is replaced for any reason.
         (c)   Smoke detectors and fire alarm devices that are connected to a
panel as part of a monitored fire alarm system, or other devices that use a
low-power radio frequency wireless communication signal, are exempt from the
battery requirements of this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or remove any smoke
detector or smoke alarm, except when it is necessary for maintenance or
inspection purposes. Any smoke detector or smoke alarm removed for repair,
replacement, or local remodeling shall be reinstalled or replaced so that it is
in place and operable.
      (1)   For rental-dwelling units, each owner, manager, or rental agent of
the owner is responsible for the installation of required smoke detectors or
smoke alarms and for the repair or replacement of a required smoke detector or
smoke alarm within seven business days after the owner, manager, or rental
agent is given written notification of the need to repair or replace the smoke
detector or smoke alarm. Residents shall inspect and test the smoke detector or
smoke alarm in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions at least monthly.
      (2)   For owner-dwelling units, each owner is responsible for the
installation of required smoke detectors or smoke alarms and for the repair or
replacement of a required smoke detector or smoke alarm within seven business
days of finding it inoperable. An owner shall inspect and test the smoke
detector or smoke alarm for power in accordance with manufacturer’s
instructions at least monthly.
   (C)   A person, company, or corporation violating I.C. 22-11-18-3, I.C. 22-
11-18-3.5, and the provisions of §§
91.135 through
91.139 and
91.150 through
91.154 shall be subject to penalties as specified in I.C. 22-11-18-5.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.137 HOSE CONNECTIONS, LOCATIONS, ACCESS AND SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Location generally. The location of the Greenfield Fire Territory
connections shall be approved by the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee,
with respect to fire hydrants, Greenfield Fire Territory access roads, fire
apparatus water supply lines, buildings, utilities, and landscaping. Immediate
access to Greenfield Fire Territory connections shall be maintained at all
times and not hindered by obstructions, including fences, bushes, trees, walls,
or other fixed or removable objects.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Greenfield Fire Territory hose connections shall be freestanding
and remote from the building.
      (2)   The connection shall be a five-inch Stortz-type connection.
      (3)   The Greenfield Fire Territory connection shall be located to the
curb cut of the main entrance of the project site or building it serves. The
connection shall be arranged to face the street, driveway, or fire access
route. This location shall be placed in an area that will not interfere with
access to the building when hoses are laid from the closest fire hydrant to the
Greenfield Fire Territory connection. The connection shall be one and one-half
times the height of the building away from the building.
      (4)   The Stortz connection shall be arranged so that the connection is
between 30 and 36 inches above the finished grade, sidewalk, or pit box top or
lid at the location of the connection.
      (5)   The Greenfield Fire Territory hose connection shall be located not
more than 100 feet from the nearest fire hydrant.
      (6)   Where the Greenfield Fire Territory connection is subject to
vehicular damage, the connection shall be protected as follows.
         (a)   Protective post(s) shall be a three- inch in diameter Schedule
40 or better steel post set in 36 inches of concrete. The inside of the post
shall also be filled with concrete.
         (b)   Post(s) shall be located not closer than 36 inches from the
Greenfield Fire Territory connection and shall not interfere with the operation
of the Stortz connection.
         (c)   Post(s) shall extend aboveground to a height at least equal to
the top of the Greenfield Fire Territory hose connection.
      (7)   The exposed exterior piping for the Greenfield Fire Territory
connection shall be painted red if it supplies a sprinkler system only, yellow
if it supplies a combination sprinkler/standpipe system, and green if it
supplies a standpipe system only. The address for the building shall be on the
riser of the Greenfield Fire Territory connection. The Stortz connection shall
not be painted.
      (8)   The Greenfield Fire Territory connection shall not be more than 25
feet from the curb.
      (9)   When a building is protected by an automatic sprinkler and/or
standpipe system and the Greenfield Fire Territory connection is exposed to
undue vandalism, the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s designee may require that a
Knox security cap be installed. All new buildings equipped with an automatic
sprinkler and/or standpipe system shall install a Knox locking cap on the
Greenfield Fire Territory connection.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.138 MEANS OF EGRESS CONTINUITY.
   Any member of the police or Greenfield Fire Territory who shall discover any
fire escape or means of egress encumbered or obstructed in any manner shall
report such condition to the appropriate fire prevention bureau, and such fire
prevention bureau shall immediately notify the owner or occupant to remove such
encumbrance or obstacle.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.139 EXIT STAIRWELL IDENTIFICATION.
   Each required stairwell in a building shall be identified with a letter and
number. The letter shall start with A and the number will be the floor level;
for example, stairwell A1 would be stairwell A on the first floor, and
stairwell A2 would be stairwell A on the second floor. Each stairwell will have
signage on the interior and exterior of each stairwell door indicating the
stairwell letter/number designation. The stairwell with the roof access shall
be labeled as well on each floor.
(Ord. passed - -)
FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
§ 91.150 PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   (A)   Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed in accordance with and
where required by the State Fire Code and shall also be installed where
required by this section.
   (B)   Except for private dwellings, portable fire extinguishers shall be
installed and maintained in all occupancies.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.151 PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHER SERVICING.
   Portable fire extinguishers which are required by §
91.150 shall be serviced and maintained as set forth in 675 IAC 22 and 675 IAC
28-1-2.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.152 REQUIREMENTS FOR KITCHEN EXHAUST EQUIPMENT, FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Any new installation or alteration of existing kitchen fire
suppression equipment shall be inspected by the fire prevention bureau having
jurisdiction prior to the kitchen cooking equipment being placed in service.
   (B)   The installing company shall:
      (1)   Notify the fire prevention bureau at least 48 hours in advance of
the system being completed for system testing; and
      (2)   File with the fire prevention bureau a form stating that the system
has been inspected and signed by both the Fire Prevention Inspector and the
installation company’s representative. This form is to be kept on file in the
fire prevention bureau.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.153 QUALIFIED CONTRACTORS.
   Prior to performing installation, service, repair, inspection, or
maintenance of fire protection systems, the qualified person conducting such
function(s) shall submit documentation to the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s
designee, verifying the qualification for the company or individual for each
type of fire protection system being installed, serviced, repaired, inspected,
or maintained. Qualification shall conform to the requirements as outlined in
each applicable NFPA standard or from the manufacturer of such equipment.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.154 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT, BARRICADES,
DEVICES, SIGNS, AND SEALS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to do or permit to be done any of the
following acts:
   (A)   Key box access and fire equipment keys. To make or cause or permit to
be made, or to have in his or her possession, any key for any key box emergency
access system, Greenfield Fire Territory equipment, or house or building used
by the Greenfield Fire Territory, except upon the written order of the Fire
Chief, or to fail or refuse to surrender possession of any such key upon demand
of the Fire Chief;
   (B)   Tampering with fire protection systems or equipment. To tamper,
molest, remove, or in any manner interfere with, damage, or disturb any part of
a fire protection system, apparatus, fire equipment, secured gate, barricade,
device, sign, and seal in use in the city;
   (C)   Injuring a fire hose. To drive any motor vehicle or railroad
locomotive over any fire hose laid in any street or Greenfield Fire Territory
access road in the vicinity of any fire or while in use for any other purpose,
or in any other way interfere with the use of such hose; or
   (D)   Opening fire hydrants. To use or operate any public or private
hydrants or valves connected to a water system intended for fire suppression
purposes without written permission from the water utility or the Greenfield
Fire Territory. Notwithstanding the provisions of this division (D), employees
of the water utility who are authorized, members of the Greenfield Fire
Territory, owners of private hydrants, and members of a duly-recognized
facility fire brigade may operate hydrants and valves as part of their assigned
duties.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
FIRE REPORTING SYSTEMS
§ 91.165 SCOPE.
   This subchapter is applicable to the installation and maintenance of all
manual and automatic fire alarm systems in new and existing structures; also,
faulty and/or false alarms, and delayed notification of manual or automatic
fire alarm systems.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.166 NOTIFICATION UPON FIRE ALARM ACTIVATION.
   (A)   The Greenfield Fire Territory shall be notified immediately upon the
activation of any fire alarm, except in the case of a supervised fire drill,
periodic testing, or maintenance of a system.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, such notice shall be required if
the alarm is directly transmitted by private line
   (C)   The monitoring company shall notify the County Communications Center
immediately when the alarm is received at all times except as stated in
division (A) above.
   (D)   Upon the receipt of a supervisory signal from a fire alarm or fire
suppression system, the Central Station shall perform the requirements of
“Disposition of Signals” as set forth in 675 IAC 28-1-28.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of a trouble signal from a fire alarm or fire
suppression system, the Central Station shall perform the requirements of
“Disposition of Signals” as set forth in 675 IAC 28-1-28.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.167 FAULTY ALARMS.
   (A)   False alarms. A false alarm is the willful and knowing initiation or
transmission of a signal, message, or other notification of an event of fire
when no such danger exists.
   (B)   Excessive false alarms. It shall be unlawful for any person or entity
who owns or controls property in the city on which an alarm system is installed
to issue, cause to be issued, or permit the issuance of more than three false
alarms in a calendar year. The person or entity who owns or controls property
on which an alarm system is installed shall receive a warning from the city for
each false alarm. There shall be no distinction between fire and security false
alarms.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 91.180 FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY INSPECTION FEES.
   All code violations will be documented on a fire inspection report form.
Each business will be given 30 days to correct code violations. Certain code
violations may be given less time to correct due to their severity. The
business shall also comply online through the city website when the violations
have been corrected. If, after the specified time, a compliance card is not
received, a reinspection shall be made of the business to determined code
compliance. A reinspection fee for each reinspection shall be charged as
indicated in the city fee schedule in §
35.34.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
PERMITS
§ 91.195 PYROTECHNIC DISPLAYS REQUIRE CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   To obtain approval to conduct a public display under I.C. 22-11-14, a
certificate of insurance conditioned for the payment of all damages which may
be caused either to a person or persons in an amount of not less than $100,000
and to property in an amount of not less than $100,000, by reason of the
licensed display arising from any acts of the licensee or his or her agents,
employees, or subcontractors, is required.
(Ord. passed - -)
MISCELLANEOUS SAFETY PROVISIONS
§ 91.210 CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 22-11-14-6(d), I.C. 22-11-14-10.5, and this chapter,
consumer fireworks may only be used in the city’s corporate limits during the
days and times listed below:
   (A)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June 29
through July 3 and July 5 through July 9; however, regardless of what time
sunset occurs, not later than 11 p.m.;
   (B)   Between 10:00 a.m. and midnight on July 4 and December 31; and
   (C)   In the event that the hours of use for consumer fireworks listed in
I.C. 22-11-14-6(d) or I.C. 22-11-14-10.5(c) conflict with this chapter, the
state statutes shall control.   
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.211 VACATED OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS.
   The applicable fire prevention bureau may implement a program for
identifying and placarding vacant or abandoned Class 1 structures that pose an
unreasonable risk hazard to firefighters who forcibly enter a building or
structure for controlling or extinguishing a fire. Unreasonable risk hazards
shall include, but not be limited to, structural deficiencies such as open roof
(s), missing steps or stair(s), holes in floor(s), open wall(s) or shaft(s), or
the illegal removal of structural components of a building or structure that
may cause an entanglement or premature collapse hazard for firefighters.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.212 SMOKING.
   (A)   Where smoking is prohibited.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, smoking shall be
prohibited in the following public places and places of employment, including,
but not limited to, the following areas:
         (a)   Elevators;
         (b)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and any other
common use areas;
         (c)   Buses, taxicabs, and other means of public transit under the
authority of the city, and ticket, boarding, and waiting areas of public
transit depots;
         (d)   Service lines;
         (e)   Retail stores;
         (f)   All areas available to and customarily used by the general
public in all governmental offices, private businesses, and nonprofit entities
patronized by the public;
         (g)   Restaurants;
         (h)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries, and museums;
         (i)   Any facility which is primarily used for exhibiting any motion
picture, stage, drama, lecture, musical recital, or other similar performance;
         (j)   Sports arenas and convention halls, including bowling
facilities;
         (k)   Every room, chamber, or place of meeting or public assembly,
including school buildings under the control of any board, council, commission,
committee, including joint committees, or agencies of the city or any political
subdivision of the state during such time as a public meeting is in progress,
to the extent that such place is subject to the jurisdiction of the city;
         (l)   Hospitals, clinics, physical therapy facilities, doctors’
offices, and dentists’ offices;
         (m)   Private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-term
care facilities;
         (n)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment
buildings, condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes,
and other multiple-unit residential facilities;
         (o)   Polling places; and
         (p)   Private functions in other public places like restaurants,
hotels, and motels.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, any owner,
operator, manager, or other person who controls any establishment or facility
may declare that entire establishment or facility as a nonsmoking
establishment.
   (B)   Policies regarding smoking in places of employment.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of employers to provide a smoke-free
workplace for all employees, but employers are not required to incur any
expense to make structural or other physical modifications.
      (2)   Within 120 days of the adoption of this section, each employer
having an enclosed place of employment located within the city shall adopt,
implement, make known, and maintain a written smoking policy that shall contain
the following requirements: Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed
facilities within a place of employment, without exception. This includes
common work areas, auditoriums, classrooms, conference and meeting rooms,
private offices, elevators, hallways, medical facilities, cafeterias, employee
lounges, stairs, restrooms, vehicles with more than one occupant, and all other
enclosed facilities.
      (3)   The smoking policy shall be communicated to all employees within
three weeks of its adoption.
      (4)   All employers shall supply a written copy of the smoking policy
upon request to any existing or prospective employee.
   (C)   Reasonable distance. Smoking may occur at a reasonable distance
outside of any area where smoking is prohibited to ensure that tobacco smoke
does not enter the area through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or any
other means. It shall be a violation for smoke to be detected in any area where
smoking is prohibited.
   (D)   Where smoking is not regulated. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this section to the contrary, the following areas shall not be subject to the
smoking restrictions of this section:
      (1)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed child care,
adult day care, or health care facility;
      (2)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated
as smoking rooms;
      (3)   Retail tobacco stores; provided that smoke from these places does
not infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of
this section;
      (4)   Outdoor areas of places of employment;
      (5)   Bars; or
      (6)   Private clubs.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.213 UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS.
   Any person who supervises, manages, or directs the installation,
retrofitting, removal, or closure of underground storage tanks shall notify the
appropriate fire prevention bureau 14 days prior to the commencement of work;
however, this requirement shall not apply in emergency repair work where 14-day
notification is not possible.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The person or entity who violates §
91.167 shall pay a penalty as indicated in §
99.99 of this code.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Planting trees near sidewalks prohibited
   
92.02   Defacing sidewalks
   
92.03   Display or sale of merchandise restricted
Excavations
   
92.15   Permit required
   
92.16   Application
   
92.17   Fee
   
92.18   Bond required
   
92.19   Insurance required
   
92.20   Compliance with terms of permit
   
92.21   Restoration
   
92.22   Machinery not permitted on streets at certain times
   
92.23   Liability of permittee
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PLANTING TREES NEAR SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall plant a tree within ten feet of a sidewalk or within ten
feet or an easement for a sidewalk except as follows:
   (A)   Where overhead power lines do not exist, the following trees may be
planted:
      (1)   Thornless Honeylocust - Gleditsia triacanthos inermis “Morraine”;
      (2)   Little Leaf Linden - Tilia cordata “Greenspire”;
      (3)   London Plane Tree - Platanus acerfolia;
      (4)   Norway Maple - Acer platanoides;
      (5)   Red Maple - Acer rubrum;
      (6)   Ginko or Maidenhair Tree - Ginkgo biloba (male tree only); and
      (7)   Red Oak - Quercus borealis (rubra).
   (B)   Where overhead power lines exist, the following trees may be planted:
         (1)   Crabapple tree - Malus species; and
         (2)   Flowering Dogwood - Cornus florida.
(Prior Code, §§ 53.02, 53.99) (Ord. 1960-14, passed 7-6-1960; Ord. 1989-3,
passed 4-13-1989; Ord. 1991-3, passed 5-10-1991; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-
2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 DEFACING SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, by marking, printing, or in
any other manner, any sidewalk within the city.
(Prior Code, §§ 53.04, 53.99) (Ord. passed 6-3-1896) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DISPLAY OR SALE OF MERCHANDISE RESTRICTED.
   Any duly authorized business operating in a building by virtue of fee
ownership thereof or a leasehold interest therein is hereby authorized to
conduct such duly authorized business upon any sidewalk immediately adjacent
thereto, provided that:
   (A)   Such building is located on State Road 9 between North Street and
South Street or on U.S. 40 between Noble Street and Spring Street; and
   (B)   Any structures or appurtenances for the display or sale of goods,
wares, or merchandise are located to maintain five feet between such structure
or appurtenance and the edge of the sidewalk nearest to the street.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 92.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place in
the city without having obtained a permit as required, or for failure to comply
with the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.23 or in violation of or variance from the terms of any such permit.
(Ord. 1972-19, passed 12-21-1972) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 APPLICATION.
   Applications for such permits shall be made on forms prescribed by the city.
Such application shall describe the location of the intended excavation or
tunnel; the size thereof; the purpose therefor; the proposed dates of
commencement and completion of the work; the person, firm, or corporation doing
the actual excavating work; the name of the person, firm, or corporation for
whom or which the work is being done; and shall contain an agreement that the
applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be
done.
(Ord. 1972-19, passed 12-21-1972)
§ 92.17 FEE.
   The fee for such permit shall be the sum of $40, payable at the time of
submitting the application.
(Ord. 1972-19, passed 12-21-1972; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 92.18 BOND REQUIRED.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant has filed with
the Clerk-Treasurer a bond payable to the city conditioned that the person,
firm, or corporation shall replace said street, alley, sidewalk, or any
property belonging to the city, either above or below the surface, in as good a
condition as it was before said excavation was made; and further conditioned
that if said street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place is not so replaced
within five days after written notice to do so by the City Engineer or Building
Commissioner, then the city shall have the right to replace it and the surety
on the bond shall pay all costs incurred by the excavation. The bond shall be
in a minimum sum of $1,000 per application, and may be increased to such an
amount as, in the opinion of the City Engineer, will equal the estimated cost
of repairing the excavation.
(Ord. 1972-19, passed 12-21-1972; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 92.19 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   In addition to the bond required in §
92.18, the permittee shall carry a policy or policies of standard comprehensive
public liability insurance covering bodily injury in an amount of at least
$100,000 per person and $1,000,000 per occurrence, and property damage in an
amount of $100,000,000. The permittee shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer a
certificate of insurance prior to the issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 1972-19, passed 12-21-1972; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.20 COMPLIANCE WITH TERMS OF PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation or tunnel in any way contrary to
or at variance with the terms of the permit. Whenever it is reasonably
possible, the permittee shall be required to tunnel under the street rather
than cut through the street. Proper bracing shall be maintained to prevent the
collapse of adjoining ground. No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, or
conduits in the making of such excavations or tunnels, and notice shall be
given to the person maintaining any such pipe, cables, or conduits, or to the
City Department or officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be
endangered or affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before
such pipes, cables, or conduits shall be disturbed. The City Engineer shall
issue the permit when he or she is satisfied that all of the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.23 have been met.
(Ord. 1972-19, passed 12-21-1972) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 RESTORATION.
   Any person, firm, or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or under
any public street, alley, or sidewalk, or other public place in the city, shall
restore the surface to its original condition in compliance with the ordinances
of the city and under the supervision of the City Engineer. Traffic must be
properly maintained at all times while the work is in progress, and the
contractor shall provide approved signs, barricade, flares, flashing lights,
and signalperson to properly direct traffic and safeguard the public. All
driveways that are disturbed during the construction work shall be replaced.
Drainage on the right-of-way shall not be obstructed. The permittee shall
remove from the street all dirt, rock, debris, or other material taken from the
excavation, unless a longer period is allowed by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 1972-19, passed 12-21-1972) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 MACHINERY NOT PERMITTED ON STREETS AT CERTAIN TIMES.
   No machinery shall be permitted to remain on the streets over weekends and
legal holidays, except during the time such machinery is actually being used.
(Ord. 1972-19, passed 12-21-1972) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 LIABILITY OF PERMITTEE.
   The permittee shall assume all liability for and shall hold the city
harmless from any damage caused by such opening or excavation, including, but
not limited to, damage caused by interferences with existing utilities or
injuries to persons or property caused by such excavation. The permittee shall
be responsible for maintaining proper signals and guards in and about the said
excavation at all times.
(Ord. 1972-19, passed 12-21-1972)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter or refuses to comply with any of the regulations promulgated by
the Board of Public Works and Safety and approved by the Common Council shall
be fined the sum of $50 for the initial citation for the violation, $100 for
the second citation of the violation, $150 for third citation for the
violation, $200 for the fourth citation for the violation, and $250 for each
citation thereafter occurring within 12 months of the initial violation. Each
day such violation or failure of compliance continues to exist shall be deemed
to be a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to any fine or penalty set forth above, if a violation
must be prosecuted through the County Superior Court the violator, upon
conviction, shall pay reasonable attorney fees and court cost as determined by
the court.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
92.01 shall be fined not more than $25 for each violation thereof.
(Prior Code, §§ 53.02, 53.99)
   (D)   Whoever violates §
92.02 shall be fined not less than $3 nor more than $10.
(Prior Code, §§ 53.04, 53.99)
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§
92.01 through
92.03 or refuses to comply with any of the regulations promulgated by the Board
of Public Works and Safety and approved by the Common Council shall be fined
the sum of $50 for the initial citation for the violation, $100 for the second
citation of the violation, $150 for third citation for the violation, $200 for
the fourth citation for the violation, and $250 for each citation thereafter
occurring within 12 months of the initial violation. Each day such violation or
failure of compliance continues to exist shall be deemed to be a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1896; Ord. 1960-14, passed 7-6-1960; Ord. 1989-3, passed 4-13-
1989; Ord. 1991-3, passed 5-10-1991; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 93: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Board of Public Works and Safety to supervise collection and disposal
of garbage and rubbish
   
93.03   Board to establish regulations
   
93.04   Collection equipment to be covered
   
93.05   Collectors, license required
Garbage and Rubbish
   
93.20   Keeping premises clear of accumulations of garbage and rubbish
   
93.21   Prohibited forms of waste disposal
   
93.22   Burning garbage, incinerator
   
93.23   Garbage disposal unit
   
93.24   Bonfires on streets, alleys, or city rights-of-way
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes and every waste accumulation of animal, fruit,
or vegetable matter, used or intended for food, or that attends the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit,
or vegetables.
   RUBBISH. Such matter as ashes, cans, metalware, broken glass, crockery,
dirt, sweepings, boxes, wood, grass, weeds, or litter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 1962-9, passed 4-18-1962)
§ 93.02 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY TO SUPERVISE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city is authorized and empowered
to supervise the collection and disposal of all garbage and rubbish within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 1962-9, passed 4-18-1962)
§ 93.03 BOARD TO ESTABLISH REGULATIONS.
   The Board is authorized, subject to the approval of the Common Council, to
prescribe and promulgate regulations concerning methods used in the storage,
collection, and disposal of all garbage and rubbish.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 1962-9, passed 4-18-1962)
§ 93.04 COLLECTION EQUIPMENT TO BE COVERED.
   Equipment used for the collection of garbage or rubbish shall have suitably
constructed covered or enclosed bodies with watertight beds.
(Prior Code, § 31.15) (Ord. 1962-9, passed 4-18-1962; Ord. 2019-25, passed on
5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 COLLECTORS, LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person, firm, or corporation desiring to engage in the business
of garbage or rubbish collection and disposal shall make application to the
Clerk-Treasurer by setting forth the name of such person, firm, or corporation,
the residence thereof or the address or place of business, and a description of
the vehicles to be used in the collection of such garbage or rubbish within the
city.
   (B)   Before issuing a license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall require the
applicant to submit a written approval of the issuance thereof, executed by the
Building Commissioner, or his or her designee, which approval shall state that
the vehicle to be used for such purpose has satisfactorily met the requirements
of these regulations.
   (C)   (1)   Each license issued shall expire one year following the date of
purchase.
      (2)   The license fee shall be $5 per year per vehicle in advance to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 31.16) (Ord. 1962-9, passed 4-18-1962; Ord. 2019-25, passed on
5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
§ 93.20 KEEPING PREMISES CLEAR OF ACCUMULATIONS OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   The owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises in the city shall cause
to be removed from said premises any accumulation of garbage and rubbish, and
shall keep said premises free and clear of any accumulation of garbage and
rubbish at all times.
   (B)   The City Building Commissioner, or his or her designee, is directed
and authorized to issue a five-day written notice to the owner, occupant, or
lessee of any premises within the city to remove any garbage and rubbish which
has been permitted to accumulate. Such notice shall be served by a member of
the Police Department, or by certified mail to the property owner where such
accumulation of garbage or rubbish has been permitted, should he or she be a
non-resident of the city and/or the property is vacant.
   (C)   If the owner, occupant, or lessee fails to remove such accumulation of
garbage or rubbish within the time prescribed, the City Building Commissioner,
or his or her designee, may cause such accumulation to be hauled away. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement of the actual cost incurred by
the city in such removal, which statement shall be delivered to the owner,
occupant, or lessee by a member of the Police Department or by certified mail
with return receipt, and such owner, occupant, or lessee shall, within ten days
from receipt of such notice, pay such amount to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   If the owner, occupant, or lessee fails to pay said sum within the
time prescribed, the Clerk-Treasurer shall file a certified copy of the
statement of cost in the Auditor’s office of the county, and said Auditor shall
place the amount so claimed on the tax duplicate against the owner, occupant,
or lessee of such premises affected by said work. The claim shall be collected
as taxes are collected, and when so collected, shall be disbursed to the
General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.10) (Ord. passed 10-17-1962; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-
2020)
§ 93.21 PROHIBITED FORMS OF WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to throw or
deposit or allow or permit any child, servant, member of the family, or any
other person under his, her, or their control to throw or deposit any manure,
rubbish, slops, putrid or unsound animal or vegetable matter, or any filthy,
noisome, or unwholesome liquid slops or substances that are liable to become
unwholesome in, into, or on any street, lane, alley, sidewalk, gutter,
crossing, lot, cellar, premises, or commons within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit,
or in any manner place on any street, alley, or public property within the
corporation limits of the city any ashes, garbage, junk, slop, fencing, or any
other substances, materials, or structures that would, in any manner, interfere
with the free use of any streets or alleys within the corporation limits of the
city, or which, in any manner, would interfere with or mar the appearance of
such streets or alleyways within the corporation limits of the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to deposit or place any garbage or rubbish in any
alley, street, river, canal, stream, drainage ditch, or other public place
within the city, provided that nothing in these regulations shall be construed
to prohibit the hauling and dumping of ashes, cinders, dirt, sand, stone,
brick, or gravel which are free of trash, rubbish, refuse, or garbage to or on
any lot owned or at the request of the owner for the purpose of elevating the
grade of such lot or for the improvement thereof. Nothing in these regulations
shall be construed to prohibit the hauling or transporting of saleable metals,
scrap, rubber, paper, rags, or glass to junkyards, reclamation yards, or any
other places buying or handling the same.
   (D)   Except for the placement of approved garbage receptacles from 6:00
p.m. on the day prior to refuse collection for the subject property until 12:00
p.m. on the day after refuse collection from the subject property, no owner or
occupant of a property shall locate any garage receptacle in the right-of-way.
   (E)   On the failure of any person, firm, or corporation to perform any of
the foregoing provisions of this section, the Building Commissioner, or the
Building Commissioner’s designee, shall cause a written order to be served on
such person, firm, or corporation requiring such duty to be performed within
seven days.
(Prior Code, § 31.11) (Ord. passed 4-16-1941; Ord. 1957-12, passed 3-20-1957;
Ord. 1962-9, passed 4-18-1962; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.22 BURNING GARBAGE, INCINERATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn garbage on
his or her own premises within the city limits, except by electric-fired, oil-
fired, or gas-fired incinerator or other appliance approved by the Board of
Health or its Health Officer. The burning of garbage in an open barrel or any
other open container within the city limits is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 31.12) (Ord. 1962-9, passed 4-18-1962) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 GARBAGE DISPOSAL UNIT.
   The disposal of garbage through home garbage disposal appliances into
sewers, when the sewage carried by the sewers receives treatment in a municipal
or private sewage disposal system, will be considered as satisfactory
destruction of the garbage within the meaning of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 31.13) (Ord. 1962-9, passed 4-18-1962; Ord. 2019-25, passed on
5-13-2020)
§ 93.24 BONFIRES ON STREETS, ALLEYS, OR CITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   The burning of leaves, limbs, or rubbish of any kind on any street, alley,
or right-of way within the city is prohibited.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or refuses to comply with any of the regulations promulgated by the
Board of Public Works and Safety and approved by the Common Council shall be
fined the sum of $50 for the initial citation for the violation, $100 for the
second citation of the violation, $150 for third citation for the violation,
$200 for the fourth citation for the violation, and $250 for each citation
thereafter occurring within 12 months of the initial violation. Each day such
violation or failure of compliance continues to exist shall be deemed to be a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 94: SANITATION
Section
   
94.01   Filthy and unwholesome premises
   
94.02   Disinfecting wastes from diseased persons
   
94.03   Slaughtering, offensive conditions prohibited
   
94.04   Covering garbage receptacles; placement of garbage receptacles
   
94.05   Building Commissioner to order correction of conditions
   
94.06   Collection point for dead animals prohibited
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 FILTHY AND UNWHOLESOME PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the occupants of any premises, buildings, or
appurtenances to permit them to become or remain in a filthy or unwholesome
condition.
   (B)   On a determination by the Building Commissioner, or his or her
designee, that such a condition exists, the Building Commissioner, or his or
her designee, shall have notice of such violation served by a member of the
Police Department by the owner or occupant of the subject property, and/or by
certified mail to the property owner upon which the violation exists should he
or she be a nonresident of the city and/or the property is vacant.
   (C)   On the failure of the occupant to remedy the condition within five
days, the Building Commissioner, or his or her designee, may clean the same,
either with city labor or by contracting out the job. The expense of such
cleaning shall be assessed against and collected from the owner or occupant, or
a lien shall be imposed on the property and placed on the tax duplicate for
collection or the same shall be collected by foreclosure of such lien.
(Prior Code, § 54.01) (Ord. 1964-25, passed 8-5-1964; Ord. 1970-20, passed 7-1-
1970; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 94.02 DISINFECTING WASTES FROM DISEASED PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to dispose of, in any
manner, the alvine discharges from patients suffering from epidemic dysentery,
tuberculosis, diphtheria, scarlet fever, or typhoid fever without having
disinfected them with a solution of chloride of lime, or with some equally
powerful and efficient disinfecting agent.
(Prior Code, § 54.05) (Ord. 1957-12, passed 3-20-1957)
§ 94.03 SLAUGHTERING, OFFENSIVE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, or occupant of any ground or
premises within the city, or for any corporate officer of or director in a
corporation owning or controlling the use of any ground or premises in the
city, to conduct or to cause or permit to be conducted thereon the business of
slaughtering cattle, hogs, sheep, turkeys, geese, ducks, chickens, or any
animals or fowl of any description; or to cause and maintain or permit to be
caused and maintained thereon anything whatsoever that is injurious to the
health, indecent or offensive to the senses of any of the inhabitants of the
city, or an obstruction to the free use of property by any such inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 54.06) (Ord. 1957-12, passed 3-20-1957; Ord. 2019-25, passed on
5-13-2020)
§ 94.04 COVERING GARBAGE RECEPTACLES; PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.
   All garbage receptacles shall be kept tightly covered and shall be emptied
frequently to prevent fermentation and bad odors. Except as otherwise provided
under §
93.21(D), garbage receptacles shall not be located in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Garbage, see
Chapter 93
§ 94.05 BUILDING COMMISSIONER TO ORDER CORRECTION OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   On the failure of any person, firm, or corporation to perform any of
the foregoing provisions of §§
94.02 through
94.04, the Building Commissioner, or his or her designee, shall cause a written
order to be served on such person, firm, or corporation requiring such duty to
be performed within five days.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this section or refuses to comply with any of the regulations promulgated by
the Board of Public Works and Safety and approved by the Common Council shall
be fined the sum of $50 for the initial citation for the violation, $100 for
the second citation of the violation, $150 for third citation for the
violation, $200 for the fourth citation for the violation, and $250 for each
citation thereafter occurring within 12 months of the initial violation. Each
day such violation or failure of compliance continues to exist shall be deemed
to be a separate offense.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 94.06 COLLECTION POINT FOR DEAD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect,
maintain, or operate, or cause to be erected, maintained, or operated, any
rendery or institution for the reduction of the bodies of dead animals to
fertilizer at any point nearer than four miles from the corporate limits of the
city, where the purpose of the institution is to collect at that point the
bodies of dead animals from the surrounding territory, and not to reduce the
garbage and dead animals of the city exclusively and as a sanitary measure
under the control and supervision of the city.
(Prior Code, § 54.12) (Ord. passed 9-17-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§
94.05 or refuses to comply with any of the regulations promulgated by the Board
of Public Works and Safety and approved by the Common Council shall be fined
the sum of $50 for the initial citation for the violation, $100 for the second
citation of the violation, $150 for third citation for the violation, $200 for
the fourth citation for the violation, and $250 for each citation thereafter
occurring within 12 months of the initial violation. Each day such violation or
failure of compliance continues to exist shall be deemed to be a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
95.02   Certain conditions declared nuisances
   
95.03   Test for nuisance
   
95.04   Nuisance created by others
   
95.05   Noise
   
95.06   Abatement of nuisances
Weeds and Trees
   
95.20   Weeds
   
95.21   Poplar trees prohibited
Junked or Abandoned Vehicles
   
95.35   Junked or abandoned vehicles declared nuisances; exception
   
95.36   Definition
   
95.37   Storing, allowing to remain on property prohibited
   
95.38   Removal from private property
   
95.39   Removal from public property
   
95.40   Exemption
   
95.41   Disposal
   
95.42   Abandonment or storage of certain appliances
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter and code to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
the state as public nuisances may, in case any thereof exist within the city
limits, be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided in this
chapter and code, or in accordance with any other provisions of law. Wherever
the word NUISANCE is used in this chapter, it refers to a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 95.02 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The following conditions within the city constitute and are declared to be
nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees in public ways. Any tree, stack, or other object
standing on such premises in such condition that it shall, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger life, limb, or property, or cause hurt, damage,
or injury to persons or property on the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger of
its catching or communicating fire; its attracting and propagating vermin,
rodents, or insects; or blowing into any street, sidewalk, or property of
another. It shall be the duty of persons owning or being in charge of those
business establishments whose patrons purchase goods or services from their
automobiles, commonly known as “drive-ins”, to furnish sufficient covered
receptacles for the deposit of wastes created in the operation of such
business, and to clean up such wastes as are not deposited in receptacles at
the close of business of each day (or if such business operates continuously,
at least once each day), and at such other times when weather conditions are
such that waste from the operation of such business is being blown to adjoining
premises;
   (C)   Noxious odors or smoke. Emissions from premises into the surrounding
atmosphere of such odors, dusts, smoke, or other matter as to render ordinary
use or physical occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or
impossible;
   (D)   Storage of explosives or combustible material. Storage on the premises
of such combustible or explosive material as to create a safety hazard to other
property or persons in the vicinity;
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open or uncovered, or insecurely
covered, cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated on private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place; and
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets and sidewalks. The growing and
maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet clearance over streets or less than
eight feet over sidewalks, or the growing and maintenance of shrubbery in
excess of three feet in height within a radius of 20 feet from the point where
the curb line of any street intersects the curb line of another street. No
shrub shall be planted between the curb line and the property line of any
street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any
street intersects with the curb line of another street.
(Prior Code, § 55.04) (Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 95.03 TEST FOR NUISANCE.
   Whether or not a particular annoyance of the character listed in §
95.02 constitutes a nuisance shall depend on its effect on persons of ordinary
health and average sensibilities, and not on its effect on persons who are
delicate or supersensitive, or whose habit, tastes, or conditions are such that
they are never sensible of any annoyance. For the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter, it is hereby made the duty of all officers and
employees of the city to report the existence of nuisances to either the City
Engineer, Street Commissioner, and/or the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 95.04 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the nuisance
be created or contributed to by the owner, or tenants, or his, her, or their
agents or representatives, but merely that the nuisance be enacted or
contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but, by the exercise of reasonable
care, the owner or operator ought to have become aware of.
(Prior Code, § 55.06)
§ 95.05 NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL AREA. Any parcel of land zoned as C - North Gateway, C - South
Gateway, DT, National Road District under the Zoning Ordinance.
      dB(A). The intensity of a sound expressed in decibels read from a
calibrated sound level meter using the A-level weighting scale and the slow
meter response, as specified by the American National Standards Institute.
      DECIBEL. A unit measure of sound level; the symbol is dB.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Any activities performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by
existing or imminent peril.
      INDUSTRIAL AREA. Any parcel of land zoned as IM under the Zoning
Ordinance.
      PROPERTY LINE. The real line and its vertical extension which separates
the real property owned, leased, or occupied by any person from contiguous real
property owned, leased, or occupied by any other person.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. All real property which is owned or controlled by a
governmental entity, and shall include any public rights-of-way, public
buildings, parks, and waterways.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, road,
thoroughfare, sidewalk, alley, or any other property which is owned or
controlled by a governmental entity.
      RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any parcel of land zoned as R-U, R-M, R-L, or TN under
the Zoning Ordinance.
      SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any apparatus used for the amplification of
sounds from any radio, tape player, cassette player, compact disc player,
loudspeaker, sound amplifier, alarm, or other sound-generating device,
including any apparatus for the amplification of the human voice.
      SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument designed to measure sound pressure
levels.
      SOURCE PROPERTY. The property from which the sound being measured
originates.
   (B)   Violation. Except for sound produced by operation of church bells or
where an agreement has been reached with the city, the following shall
constitute a violation hereunder, using, operating, or permitting to be played,
used, or operated, any machine or device for the producing or reproducing of
sound in a manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of neighboring
inhabitants when such sound exceeds the sound level limit as it pertains to the
zoning districts below:
      (1)   Residential area during the hours of 7:00am - 10:00pm= 55 dB(A);
      (2)   Residential area during the hours of 10:00pm - 7:00am= 50 dB(A);
      (3)   Commercial area during the hours of 7:00am - 10:00pm= 66 dB(A);
      (4)   Commercial area during the hours of 10:00pm - 7:00am= 64 dB(A);
      (5)   Industrial area during the hours of 7:00am –10:00pm= 66 dB(A); and
      (6)   Industrial area during the hours of 10:00pm - 7:00am= 64 dB(A).
   (C)   Zoning districts. The restriction of the dB(A) set forth above shall
apply to the zoning district of the source property, and not the zoning
district of the property owned by the complainant.
   (D)   Measurement procedures. The sound level meter shall be operated
according to the instrument manufacturer’s instruction and as follows.
      (1)   Microphone orientation. Unless the instrument manufacturer’s
instructions specifically indicate otherwise, the microphone shall be pointed
toward the allegedly offensive noise source on the source property.
      (2)   Meter setting. The meter shall be set for the A-weighted network
and “slow” response mode.
      (3)   Calibration. An external calibration check and battery check shall
be made before and after each use.
      (4)   Meter readings. The recorded reading shall be the highest sound
level obtained with the allegedly offensive noise source in operation,
disregarding unrelated peaks due to extraneous ambient noises.
      (5)   Measurement. Sound levels shall be measured at the approximate
location of the complainant’s property line, at a height of at least four feet
above the immediate surrounding surface.
      (6)   Response to complaints. After a complaint is made, the officer
shall measure the dB(A), if the noise level exceeds the dB(A) level allowed for
the sound sources zone, then the officer shall speak to the sound maker to come
into compliance. The source sound maker shall have 30 minutes to lower sound
into compliance based on the zoning area. If compliance does not occur within
30 minutes, then a citation shall be issued to the owner of the sound source.
For every complaint and noncompliance action taken, a new citation shall be
issued if the sound maker continues to exceed the dB(A) level allowed for the
sound source’s zone.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   In any case where any nuisance may be found to exist, it shall be the
duty of the Building Commissioner, and/or his or her designee, to serve notice
on the owner or occupant of the premises where such nuisance exists, or on any
other person so causing such nuisance, to abate such nuisance within a
reasonable time. In determining such reasonable time, the Building Commissioner
shall take into consideration the degree of threat to the public health,
safety, and welfare and the means required to abate such nuisance. It shall not
be necessary for the Building Commissioner to designate in this notice the
manner in which any nuisance shall be abated unless the Building Commissioner
shall deem it advisable to do so. However, the Building Commissioner shall
indicate in such notice the date within which the nuisance must be abated.
   (B)   If the owner, occupant, or other person served with a notice to abate
the nuisance shall refuse or neglect to abate the nuisance within the
designated time after such notice is given, such person shall be subject to the
penalties provided in §
95.99. In addition, the Building Commissioner may cause such nuisance to be
abated in any manner authorized by law, including the institution in the name
of this city of an action therefor against the owner, occupant, or other person
for the recovery of the amount of expense of such abatement.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer of the cost
of abating any nuisance. The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the owner, occupant,
or other person against whom the abatement proceedings were brought as to the
cost of abatement; and if said cost is not paid by the owner within 30 days,
the proper officers of the city shall proceed to collect the same either by
causing said costs to be placed on the tax duplicate or by suit.
   (D)   The requirement for service of notice under the provisions of
divisions (A) and (C) above may be complied with by mailing such notice by
registered or certified mail to the last known address of the person sought to
be notified, or by personal service of this notice by any police officer so
directed.
(Prior Code, § 55.02) (Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
WEEDS AND TREES
§ 95.20 WEEDS.
   (A)   All owners of real estate located within the city limits shall cut and
remove rank weeds and other rank vegetation growing thereon.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner, or his or her designee; the City Engineer;
or an officer of the Bureau of Fire Prevention is directed and authorized to
issue a five-day written notice to the owner to remove such rank weeds or other
rank vegetation. Such notice may be served either personally on the owner or
sent by certified mail return receipt requested, addressed to his last known
address, if he or she is a nonresident of the city.
   (C)   If the landowner fails to remove such rank vegetation within the time
prescribed, the Building Commissioner, or his or her designee, may cause such
rank weeds and vegetation to be cut and removed. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make
a certified statement of the actual cost incurred by the city in such removal,
which statement shall be delivered to the owner of the real estate by a member
of the Police Department, or by certified mail with a return receipt. The owner
shall, within ten days from receipt of such notice, pay the amount to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   If the owner fails to pay said sum within the time prescribed, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall file a certified copy of the statement of costs in the
Auditor’s office of the county, and the Auditor shall place the amount so
claimed on the tax duplicate against the lands of the landowner affected by the
lien, and the same shall be collected as taxes disbursed to the General Fund of
the city.
(Ord. 1961-21, passed 5-17-1961; Ord. 1970-20, passed 7-1-1970; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 95.21 POPLAR TREES PROHIBITED.
   Whereas, because of their natural proclivities for injuring sidewalks and
sending out numerous long, fibrous roots which frequently enter and obstruct
sewers, it is declared to be a public nuisance for any person owning or
controlling any real estate within the city to permit any Carolina Poplar,
Lombard Poplar, Volga Poplar, or Silver Poplar tree to grow on his or her said
premises or on the street or lawn on which his or her said real estate abuts,
and which trees are within a distance of 150 feet of any improved sidewalk or
any public sewer constructed by the city, either as a sanitary sewer or as a
storm sewer.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2010) Penalty, see §
95.99
JUNKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 95.35 JUNKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES DECLARED NUISANCES; EXCEPTION.
   Because of the detriment to the general and economic welfare of the public;
danger to health from vermin, insects, and rodents; and because of the danger
to the safety of children who are attracted to them, disassembled, inoperable,
or any junked, wrecked, or abandoned motor vehicles are declared to be
nuisances, except if located in association with a duly authorized automobile
sale or repair business, and, in no event, for longer than 30 consecutive days
within any consecutive 12-month time frame.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 95.36 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean any vehicle which
is or was equipped with a motor, and shall also mean any part of a motor
vehicle which is detached from the main portion of any vehicle.
(Ord. 1972-5, passed 5-3-1972)
§ 95.37 STORING, ALLOWING TO REMAIN ON PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or allow to remain in the open
on any public or private property within the corporate limits of the city any
disassembled or inoperable and unlicensed, or any junked, wrecked, or abandoned
motor vehicle for a period of ten or more days on public property, or for a
period of 15 or more days on private property, unless it is in connection with
a duly authorized automobile sales or repair business and in no event for
longer than 30 consecutive days within any consecutive 12-month time frame.
(Ord. 1972-5, passed 5-3-1972; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
95.99
§ 95.38 REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police shall find any such vehicle placed or stored in
the open on private property within the corporate limits of the city, he or she
shall issue an order to the owner of such vehicle to remove such vehicle within
ten days. Notice of such order shall be placed on the vehicle, and copies of
the notice shall be served on any adult occupying real estate on which the
vehicle is located, and also on the owner of the vehicle, if his or her name
and whereabouts are known. If no occupant of the real estate or owner of the
vehicle can be found, a notice affixed to any building on the real estate shall
constitute notice to the owner and occupant of the real estate and owner of the
vehicle. If there is no building on the real estate, the notice may be affixed
elsewhere on the real estate. If the vehicle is not removed within ten days
pursuant to the order and notice, and if the order is not stayed by the issuing
officer pursuant to a written request showing good cause for a permanent or
temporary stay, the Chief of Police shall cause the vehicle to be removed by a
junk or salvage yard or wrecker service, the cost and expense of the removal by
the junk or salvage yard to be paid by the owner of the vehicle.
(Ord. 1972-5, passed 5-3-1972)
§ 95.39 REMOVAL FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police shall find any such vehicle placed or stored in
the open on private property within the corporate limits of the city, he or she
shall issue an order to the owner of the vehicle to remove the vehicle within
three days. Notice of such order shall be placed on the vehicle. If the vehicle
is not removed within three days pursuant to the order and notice, the Chief of
Police shall cause the vehicle to be removed by a junk or salvage yard or
wrecker service, the cost and expense of the removal by the junk or salvage
yard or wrecker service to be paid by the owner of the vehicle.
(Ord. 1972-5, passed 5-3-1972)
§ 95.40 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of §§
95.35 through
95.41 shall not apply to auto salvage yards or junkyards that are duly operated
and licensed by the state or the city, and are operated and located in a
properly zoned area.
(Ord. 1972-5, passed 5-3-1972)
§ 95.41 DISPOSAL.
   Motor vehicles, or any parts thereof, which have been impounded pursuant to
§§
95.35 through
95.41 shall be disposed of according to law.
(Ord. 1972-5, passed 5-3-1972)
Statutory reference:
   Removal and disposal of abandoned vehicles by local governments, see I.C. 9-
22-1-1 et seq.
§ 95.42 ABANDONMENT OR STORAGE OF CERTAIN APPLIANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, place, or allow to remain in
the open, on any public or private property, any discarded, abandoned, unused,
or any other refrigerator, freezer, ice box, washing machines, dryers, or other
appliances having an automatic lock on a compartment large enough to enclose a
human being, without first satisfying factors divisions (A) through (C) below,
in which case such appliance shall remain on such public or private property
for no longer than 48 consecutive hours:
   (A)   Locking the door and removing the key;
   (B)   Removing all automatic catches and locks on the exterior of all doors;
or
   (C)   Removing the door thereof so as to prevent any person or child from
becoming imprisoned therein.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 4-9-1987; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter or refuses to comply with any of the regulations promulgated by
the Board of Public Works and Safety and approved by the Common Council shall
be fined the sum of $50 for the initial citation for the violation, $100 for
the second citation of the violation, $150 for third citation for the
violation, $200 for the fourth citation for the violation, and $250 for each
citation thereafter occurring within 12 months of the initial violation. Each
day such violation or failure of compliance continues to exist shall be deemed
to be a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions §
95.05 shall be fined a sum of $100 for the first offense, a sum of $500 for the
second offense, a sum of $1,000 for the third offense, and a sum of $2,500 for
any additional offenses that occur within any one calendar year. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each occasion a complaint is made, and the
sound maker refuses to come into compliance with the regulations listed above.
In addition, the Public Works Commissioner, and/or his or her designated
representative, may issue to any violator of the provisions of this chapter an
immediate stop work order and/or cease and desist order, as deemed appropriate
in his or her sole and unlimited discretion. Violation of said stop work order
or cease and desist order shall constitute a separate and additional violation
of this chapter and shall result in the imposition of a fine in the amount of
$2,500. Each time such violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation.
Should enforcement of this §
95.05 require the utilization of the services of the Town Attorney, the
violator shall, in addition to any fines imposed, be responsible for and shall
pay all such attorney fees incurred by the town.
   (C)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which the violation occurs or continues beyond the date fixed by the Building
Commissioner for abatement of said nuisance.
   (D)   The action against any person to enforce a penalty by the city shall
constitute a separate and additional legal remedy, and the fact that any
proceedings by way of an injunction, or for the abatement of any such nuisance,
has been or may be instituted by the city and be pending or concluded, shall
not affect this section or chapter or be considered in any way as a defense to
such action for the penalty herein prescribed.
   (E)   In addition to any fine or penalty set forth above, if a violation
must be prosecuted through the County Superior Court the violator, upon
conviction, shall pay reasonable attorney fees and court cost as determined by
the court.
(Prior Code, § 55.99) (Ord. 1961-21, passed 5-17-1961; Ord. 1972-5, passed 5-3-
1972; Ord. 1987-3, passed 4-9-1987; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Construction and scope
   
96.03   Tampering with property, drives, bridges, and cameras, or electronics
and equipment
   
96.04   Trees, shrubs, and grass
   
96.05   Littering, rubbish, refuse, and pollution
   
96.06   Advertising
   
96.07   Gambling
   
96.08   Explosives, firearms, weapons, and missiles
   
96.09   Camping
   
96.10   Permits
   
96.11   Meetings, exhibitions, parades, racing
   
96.12   Peddling, sales
   
96.13   Substances injurious to fish
   
96.14   Swimming
   
96.15   Subsurface aquatic activities
   
96.16   Model boating, automobiling, and flying
   
96.17   Golf
   
96.18   Animals at large
   
96.19   Horses
   
96.20   Alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs
   
96.21   Construction work
   
96.22   Traffic control
   
96.23   Restrictions on vehicles
   
96.24   Careful driving
   
96.25   Restricted areas
   
96.26   Parking at night
   
96.27   Driving off pavement
   
96.28   Working on vehicles
   
96.29   Equipment of vehicles
   
96.30   Curfew
   
96.31   Smoking prohibited
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parks and Recreation Commission, see §
31.39 et seq.
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE PATH. Any path, road, or trail maintained for persons riding
bicycles.
   BOARD. The Board of Parks and Recreation of the city.
   BRIDLE PATH. Any path or road maintained for persons riding on horseback.
   DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION. The Department of Parks and Recreation
of the city, or such department of the city as may now or hereafter be under
the jurisdiction of said Board.
   FOOT PATH or TRAIL. Any path or trail maintained for pedestrians.
   ILLEGAL DRUGS. Any controlled substance classified in schedule I, II, III,
IV, or V of 856 IAC 2-1-1 that is not accompanied by a valid prescription or
order of a practitioner acting in the course of his or her professional
practice.
   OWNER. Any person owning, operating, or having the use or control of a
vehicle, animal, thing, or other property, whether under a lease or otherwise.
   PARK. Unless specifically limited, includes all parks, parkways,
playgrounds, athletic fields, tennis courts, golf courses, swimming pools,
spray and splash areas, beaches, parking areas, and other recreation areas,
museums, zoological and botanical gardens, places, squares, circles, spurs,
open places, boulevards, tree lawn areas, roads, waters and lands under water,
and also entrances and approaches thereto, docks and piers, channels and
bridges, in leading to or connecting such park or parks or parts thereof which
are under the jurisdiction of the Board, and such other rights and
appurtenances as the Board shall utilize, whether the same be now or hereafter
owned, acquired, or leased by the city, including all land under and space
above the ground.
   PARK STREET. All street property in the park for the full width thereof.
   PERMIT. Any written authorization issued by or under the authority of the
Board, or its duly authorized agent, for a specified park privilege, activity,
or event, or by permitting the performance of a specified act or acts in any
park or park street.
   PLAYGROUND AREA. Any area maintained or designated as a playground.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any member of the city Police Department, city police
reserves, or police officer assigned to the Board, or appointed by the Board,
as a park police officer or any other city employee sworn in as a peace officer
by the city or Board, pursuant to law.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS. Any rule or regulation of the Board.
   SAFETY ZONE. Any space within any park or park street so designated by
appropriate signs as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SMOKE. The carrying or holding of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe,
electronic cigarette, or any other lighted smoking product or implement used to
burn any tobacco products, weeds, plant, or any other combustible substance.
Smoking includes emitting or exhaling the fumes of any cigarette, electronic
cigarette, cigar, pipe, or any other lighted smoking product or implement used
to burn any tobacco products, weeds, plant, or any other combustible substance.
   SWIMMING AREA. Any area maintained for the use of swimming, wading, or as a
spray or splash area.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff,
chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco, or any preparation of tobacco.
   UNNECESSARY STOPPING. Bringing a vehicle to a complete stop on a road in a
park other than at a parking place, or other than in conformity with traffic
regulations, or other than because of an emergency.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 96.02 CONSTRUCTION AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Construction. In the interpretation of this chapter, the provisions
shall be construed as follows.
      (1)   Any requirement or provisions of this chapter relating to any act
shall respectively extend to and include the causing, procuring, aiding, or
abetting, directly or indirectly, of such act; or the permitting or the
allowing of any minor in the custody of any persons doing any act prohibited by
any provision hereof.
      (2)   No provision hereof shall make unlawful any act necessarily
performed by any officers or employee of the Department of Parks and Recreation
in the line of duty or work as such, or by any person, his or her agents, or
employees, in the proper and necessary execution of the terms of any agreement
with the Board.
      (3)   Any act otherwise prohibited by this chapter, provided it is not
otherwise prohibited by law or local ordinance, shall be lawful if performed
under, by virtue of, and strictly in compliance with the provisions of a permit
and to the extent authorized thereby.
      (4)   This chapter is in addition to and supplemental to all municipal,
state, and federal laws and ordinances.
   (B)   Territorial scope. This chapter shall be effective within and on all
areas under the jurisdiction of the Board, and shall regulate the use thereof
by all persons.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976)
§ 96.03 TAMPERING WITH PROPERTY, DRIVES, BRIDGES, AND CAMERAS, OR ELECTRONICS
AND EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Injure, deface, displace, remove, fill in, raise, destroy, or tamper
with any drive, path, walk, bridge, or approach thereto; take up, remove, or
carry away any asphalt, curb, flagstone, rock, stone, gravel, sand, clay, or
earth; or make any excavation of any kind, name, or nature;
   (B)   Harvest, cut, injure, or remove, or injure, mutilate, deface,
displace, remove, or destroy any property or equipment, real or personal, owned
by the city or under the jurisdiction, control, or supervision of the Board, or
appertaining to the creation, control, government, use, or maintenance, of any
park or park street;
   (C)   Injure, deface, displace, remove, or destroy any sign, notice,
inscription, post, or monument erected or marked for any purpose, or any
milestone, danger sign or signal, guide sign or post, any signaling device or
camera or electronic equipment sanctioned, installed, or placed by the Board or
its duly authorized agent, or by the Police Department within any park or on
any park street for the purpose of directing, restricting, or regulating
traffic, establishing zones, or giving information or directions to the public;
and/or
   (D)   Interfere with any cameras, electronic equipment, lamp, lamp post, gas
or electric light apparatus, or light or extinguish the light therein, or
attach, string, adjust, or suspend any wires or similar object in, on, or over
any part of any park or park street.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.04 TREES, SHRUBS, AND GRASS.
   No person shall, in any park or park street:
   (A)   Destroy, cut, break, deface, mutilate, injure, disturb, sever from the
ground, or remove any growing thing, including, but not limited to, any plant,
flower, flower bed, shrub, tree, growth, or any branch, stem, fruit, or leaf
thereof, or pile or maintain any material or debris of any kind against or on
the same;
   (B)   Attach any rope, cable, or other contrivance thereto;
   (C)   Set fire to any timber, tree, shrubs, plants, flowers, grass, or plant
growth, or permit any fire on other land to extend into park land; or
   (D)   Hitch any horse or other animal to or leave the same standing near
enough to injure any tree, shrub, lawn or grass, or planted area, except at
such times when permission to do so shall have been given by the Board or its
duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 LITTERING, RUBBISH, REFUSE, AND POLLUTION.
   (A)   Littering in parks. No person shall leave in, throw, cast, lay, drop,
or discharge into or on, or permit any servant, agent, employee, person, or
animal in his or her charge to take into, carry through, leave in, throw, cast,
lay, drop, or discharge into or on any park or park street any rubbish or
refuse of any sort. Such leaving, except in receptacles provided by the Board
for refuse or litter, in a park or park street is prohibited. No person shall
throw, cast, lay, or deposit any bottle or piece of crockery or any glass or
glassware or any part thereof, or metallic or other substance with sharp edges
or projections in any park or park street, except in receptacles provided by
the Board for such purpose.
   (B)   Pollution of waters. No person shall throw, cast, lay, drop, or
discharge into or leave in the waters used for swimming, or waters in any park
or in any storm sewer or drain flowing into said waters, any substance, matter,
or thing, liquid or solid, which may or shall result in the pollution of said
waters.
   (C)   Drains and sewers. No person shall discharge, directly or indirectly,
into any openings or into any gutter loading into any sewer, receiving basin,
or drain, in or leading into any park or park street, any gas or vapor, or any
substance which may form a deposit tending to choke same, or any volatile
liquid which will emit a flammable vapor.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 ADVERTISING.
   No person, without prior written approval from the Board or its duly
authorized agent, shall distribute or display any flag, banner, sign, or other
matter for advertising purposes within any park or park street. No person shall
operate any musical instrument or drum, or loudspeaker, or amplifier, or siren,
or cause any noise to be made within any park or on any park street for
advertising purposes or for the purpose of attracting people to any exhibition,
performance, show, or other spectacle, except on approval by the Board or its
duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.07 GAMBLING.
   No person shall play games of chance, sell fortunes or futures, participate
in the conduct of a lottery, use any slot machine, gaming table, or instrument,
or bring into any park or have in his or her possession while there any
implements or devices commonly used or intended to be used for gambling
purposes.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 EXPLOSIVES, FIREARMS, WEAPONS, AND MISSILES.
   (A)   No person shall bring into or have in his or her possession in any
park or park street any slingshots, fire-crackers, torpedoes, fireworks, or
other dangerous missile-propelling instruments or explosives, unless done under
a permit granted by the Board and within a regularly conducted event authorized
by or conducted by the Parks and Recreation Department.
   (B)   Shooting or propelling any missile, pellet, shot, arrow, dart, or
other thing by means of any firearm, compressed-air or gas-propulsion device,
bow, slingshot, or propelling device of any kind, nature, or description, into,
on, across, through, or against any land, the air above the land, or the waters
or the lands below, or any ways, walks, buildings, structures, swimming pools,
or the interior of any structures, shelters, buildings, or facilities, owned or
under the control, operation, supervision, or management of the Board, is
prohibited unless done under a permit granted by the Board or within a
regularly conducted event authorized by or conducted by the Board.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 96.09 CAMPING.
   No person shall camp or maintain overnight a tent, camper, trailer, or
recreational vehicle in any park without prior written approval from the Board
or its duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.10 PERMITS.
   A permit to do any act shall authorize the same only insofar as it may be
performed in strict accordance with the written terms and conditions thereof.
Any violation of any law, ordinance, or rule or regulation of the Board or its
duly authorized agent or of any other city department by the holder of any
permit of any term or condition thereof shall constitute grounds for revocation
by the Board or by its duly authorized agent, whose action therein shall be
final. In case of revocation of any permit, all monies paid for or on account
thereof shall, at the option of the Board or its duly authorized agent, be
forfeited to and retained by the city; and the holder of such permit, together
with his or her agents and employees who violated such terms and conditions,
shall be jointly and severally liable to the city for all damages and loss
suffered by it in excess of money so forfeited and retained. Neither the
forfeiture and retention by the city of the whole or any part of the monies nor
the recovery or collection of the damages, or both, shall, in any manner,
relieve the person or persons from liability to punishment for any violation of
any law, ordinance, or rule or regulation of the Board or its duly authorized
agent or of any other city department.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 96.11 MEETINGS, EXHIBITIONS, PARADES, RACING.
   (A)   No person shall erect any structure, stand, or platform, or exhibit
any dramatic performance, or the performance in whole or in part of any
tragedy, comedy, opera, ballet, play, farce, dancing, rock festival, musical
concert, entertainment, motion picture, public fair, circus, juggling, rope-
walking, or any other acrobatics, or show of any kind or nature, or parade,
drill, or maneuver of any kind, or run or race with another vehicle or horse,
whether such race be founded on any stake, bet, or otherwise, in any park or on
any park street, except with prior written approval of the Board or its duly
authorized agent.
   (B)   The Board, or its duly authorized agent, may, in its discretion, issue
such permit on application, when it is consistent with the proper use and
protection of the park property.
   (C)   No person shall erect any structure, stand, or platform; hold any
meeting; perform any ceremony; or exhibit or distribute any sign, placard,
notice, declaration, or appeal of any kind or description, in any park or on
any park street, except with prior written approval of the Board or its duly
authorized agent.
   (D)   (1)   On application, such permit shall be issued unless:
         (a)   The use for which the permit is sought is of a commercial
nature;
         (b)   The location selected is not suitable because it is inconsistent
with one of the specialized park use areas such as skating rinks, ball
diamonds, camping areas, athletic fields, landscaped areas, or limited use
areas, swimming pools, spray or splash areas, or recreation areas; and/or
         (c)   The date and time requested has previously been allocated by
permit, or would obstruct and interfere substantially with park use and
enjoyment by the public.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued for any unlawful purpose or for any
person or persons, group, or organization which is subversive or disloyal to
the United States, or who might incite a riot, or who are engaged in activities
calculated to provoke racial or religious discrimination or prejudice.
   (E)   Whenever a permit is denied by reason of (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)(b), or (D)
(1)(c) above, alternative suitable locations and dates shall be offered to
applicants.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.12 PEDDLING, SALES.
   No person shall exhibit, sell, or offer for sale, hire, or lease any object,
merchandise, or service in any park or park street or to any person in any
park, except under a permit by the Board or its duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.13 SUBSTANCES INJURIOUS TO FISH.
   No person shall throw missiles, at any time, at any fish, or place in any
park waters any poison or other substance injurious to the fish.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.14 SWIMMING.
   No person shall swim, wade, or bathe in any waters under the jurisdiction,
control, operation, or supervision of the Board or of its duly authorized
agent, except at such times and in such places as the Board or its duly
authorized agent may designate or maintain as swimming areas. No person shall
bathe, wade, swim, or appear in any bathing area unless covered with a swimming
suit.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.15 SUBSURFACE AQUATIC ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall participate in any subsurface aquatic activity requiring the
use of masks or artificial breathing apparatus, such as used in skin diving and
scuba diving, in any water under the jurisdiction, control, operation, or
supervision of the Board, except with prior written approval of the Board or
its duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.16 MODEL BOATING, AUTOMOBILING, AND FLYING.
   No person shall engage in model boating, model automobiling, or model
airplane or drone flying in any park, except at places designated or maintained
therefor or with prior written approval of the Board or its duly authorized
agent.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.17 GOLF.
   No person shall swing or make use of any golf club, play golf, or hit or
putt golf balls in any park or upon any park street, except in places
designated or maintained therefor or elsewhere except with prior written
approval of the Board or its duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.18 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No person owning or being custodian or having control of any animal shall
cause or permit such animal to go at large in any park or upon any park street.
A dog may be brought into a park or upon a park street, provided that such dog
is continuously restrained or harnessed.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.19 HORSES.
   (A)   No person shall use, ride, or drive a horse in any unpaved portions of
the park, except designated bridle paths.
   (B)   Horses are prohibited on foot bridges.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.20 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND ILLEGAL DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall bring, consume, possess, sell, give away, or handle
alcoholic beverages in any park or upon any park street unless prior written
approval for such activity is granted by the Board or its duly authorized agent
and any such other local and state approvals have been obtained.
   (B)   No person shall bring illegal drugs into any park, or consume, have in
possession, sell, give away, or handle illegal drugs in any park or upon any
park street.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.21 CONSTRUCTION WORK.
   No person or agency shall perform construction work of any kind, or work
incidental thereto, in any park without prior written approval or under a
contract with the Board or its duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.22 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   A rate of speed in excess of 15 mph is prohibited in any park or upon
any park street unless specifically otherwise provided for by traffic signs
erected by duly authorized state or city officials, boards, or commissions.
   (B)   All persons shall heed and comply, at all times, with directions of
the police officers indicated by gesture or otherwise in using parks or park
streets, and shall further comply with directions on traffic signs along the
routes in the parks and along park streets. Directions on such traffic signs
may be disregarded only on order of a police officer. In parking spaces, all
persons shall comply with the directions of a park employee.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic control, see Title VII
§ 96.23 RESTRICTIONS ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   Commercial vehicles. Vehicles constructed or adapted for or engaged in
the carrying of merchandise and trucks and trailers are prohibited from using
any park except where necessary to make deliveries in such park or with prior
written approval of the Board or its authorized designee pursuant to the food
truck permitting process set forth in
Chapter 112. In all cases, such vehicles must enter such park from the nearest
street intersection or entrance, in the direction of traffic, and leave by the
nearest intersecting street or exit in the direction of traffic.
   (B)   Motor powered vehicles. Motorcycles, motor bikes, mini-bikes,
snowmobiles, or any other motor-powered bike or vehicles are prohibited in any
area under the control of the Board, except areas that have been designated by
the Board or its duly authorized agent for such use.
   (C)   Carriers of offensive refuse or heavy materials. No garbage, ashes,
manure, or other offensive material shall be carried through any park. When
such refuse is to be removed from premises fronting on any park or park street,
the vehicle collecting the same must leave the park or park street as soon as
the collection has been accomplished.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.24 CAREFUL DRIVING.
   No person shall operate, drive, or propel, or cause or permit to be
operated, driven, or propelled in any park, any vehicle recklessly or
negligently or at a speed or in such a manner as to endanger the life, limb,
safety, comfort, or property of any person.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.25 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate a vehicle within or on a safety zone,
walk, or any part of any park not designated as open to vehicular traffic. No
person shall ride a bicycle or motor-powered cycle in any park, except in
places designated for such riding.
   (B)   No person shall sled, ride, ski, or ice skate within the park, except
in areas designated for such purposes.
   (C)   The parking of vehicles in any park area not designated for parking is
prohibited.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.26 PARKING AT NIGHT.
   No person shall park a vehicle in or along any park or upon any park street
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except at places designated or
maintained therefor by the Board or its duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.27 DRIVING OFF PAVEMENT.
   No vehicle shall be operated or driven off the improved or paved roadways of
any park or upon any park street. Disabled vehicles may be driven off the
roadway so as to prevent obstruction of traffic, but no disabled vehicle shall
be permitted to remain in a park for a longer period than two hours, except in
designated parking areas.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.28 WORKING ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall grease, lubricate, or make repairs to any vehicle in any
park or upon any park street except those of a minor nature and then only in
cases of emergency.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.29 EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive or operate in any park a vehicle not equipped as
provided by law, or which may not be lawfully operated within the state. The
use of any “cutout” fitting, apparatus, or device which allows its exhaust
gasses to escape therefrom without first passing through a muffler, or driving
a vehicle emitting offensive quantities of smoke, oil, gas, or disagreeable
odors, or the use of any siren or whistle on any vehicle not operated by a
public authority, is prohibited.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.30 CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in any park, golf course,
playground, picnic swimming area, splash or spray area, or pavilion either on
foot or in vehicles of any type later than 11:00 p.m. except with prior written
approval of the Board or its duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 3-13-1976; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.31 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall smoke tobacco, or use smokeless tobacco or electronic
cigarettes or similar devices in any park or upon any park street.
   (B)   No person shall dispose of any cigarette, electronic cigarette, cigar,
or other tobacco product or any part of a cigarette, cigar, or electronic
cigarette in a park or upon any park street, including cigarette or cigar butts
or ashes or substances used within an electronic cigarette or used matches.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300.
   (B)   In addition to any fine or penalty set forth above, if a violation
must be prosecuted through the County Superior Court, the violator, upon
conviction, shall pay reasonable attorney fees and court cost as determined by
the court.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 97: TREES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Purpose
   
97.03   Street tree species
   
97.04   Spacing
   
97.05   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
97.06   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
97.07   Public tree care and permitting
   
97.08   Pruning and clearance
   
97.09   Removal of stumps
   
97.10   Damage to trees
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Tree Commission, see §§
33.01 and
33.02
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and other areas owned by the city to which the public has free access as
a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines or an easement on either side of all streets,
avenues, or ways within the city.
(Ord. 2001-23, passed 12-13-2001)
§ 97.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Street trees, as part of the larger urban forest, play a critical role
in presenting an attractive city to visitors, potential residents, and
businesses. Trees are necessary to provide oxygen, sequester carbon and other
chemicals, slow down rain, and improve and direct storm water flow.
   (B)   The goal of the Street Tree Ordinance incorporated in this chapter is
to promote stewardship practices that will guide city employees and private
citizens in order to protect the natural urban canopy tree cover and to
appropriately select, site, and maintain street trees to maximize benefits and
minimize hazard, nuisance, hardscape damage, and maintenance costs. This
chapter is considered a critical step towards adopting a comprehensive
management strategy for this vital resource, the urban forest.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 97.03 STREET TREE SPECIES.
   (A)   Provision of the lists. The Board of Public Works and Safety, or Parks
Board, in conjunction with city staff, herewith provides a list of undesirable
prohibited and desirable approved tree, shrub, and groundcover species for
planting in public spaces.
   (B)   Prohibited trees. Table 1 constitutes the official prohibited street
tree species for the city:
TABLE 1. Prohibited Street Trees
Common Name Scientific Name Issues
TABLE 1. Prohibited Street Trees
Common Name              Scientific Name         Issues
Alder, European Black    Alnus glutinosa         Invasive
Amur Cork Tree           Phellodendron amurense  Invasive
Arborvitae               Thuja species           Visibility obstruction
Ash, Blue                Fraxinus quadrangulata  Not planting due to Emerald
                                                 Ash Borer
Ash, Green               Fraxinus pennsylvanica  Not planting due to Emerald
                                                 Ash Borer
Ash, Mountain            Sorbus species          Thrives poorly, insect
                                                 problems
Ash, White               Fraxinus americana      Not planting due to Emerald
                                                 Ash Borer
Aspen                    Populus tremuloides     Weak wood
Birch, European White    Betula pendula          Borer insects, poor survival
Birch, White Paper       Betula papyrifera       Borer insects, poor survival
Boxelder                 Acer negundo            Weak wood, poor form,
                                                 invasive seed
Buckthorn, Common        Rhamnus cathartica      Invasive
Buckthorn, Glossy        Frangula alnus          Invasive
Catalpa                  Catalpa species         Messy fruit, weak wood
Cherry, Choke            Prunus virginiana       Messy fruit, insect problems,
                                                 suckers
Cherry, common           Prunus species          Messy fruit, insect problems,
                                                 suckers
Cottonwood, common       Populus deltoides       Weak wood, messy seed
Crabapple, common                                Messy fruit, disease
Named cultivars are      Malus species           problems, choose insect/
permitted                                        disease resistant varieties
                                                 if using
Elm, Siberian            Ulmus pumila            Disease problems, messy
                                                 crown, weak wood
Elm, Slippery Red        Ulmus rubra             Disease problems
Fir                      Abies species           Visibility obstruction
Juniper                  Juniperus species       Visibility obstruction
Locust, Black            Robinia pseudoacacia    Shallow rooted, borers,
                                                 cankers
Maple, Amur              Acer ginnala            Invasive seed
Maple, Norway            Acer platanoides        Shallow rooted, considered
                                                 invasive
Maple, Red               Acer rubrum             Shallow rooted, weak wood,
                                                 chlorotic
Maple, Silver            Acer saccharrinum       Weak wood, poor form
Mulberry                 Morus species           Messy fruit, invasive seeds
Oak, Pin                 Quercus palustrus       Needs acid soil
Olive Russian            Elaeagnus angustifolia  Disease prone, invasive
Pear, Callery            Pyrus Calleryana        Invasive, weak wood, short
                                                 lived
Persimmon                Diospyros virginiana    Messy fruit
Pine                     Pinus species           Visibility obstruction
Plum, American           Prunus americana        Weak wood, short lived,
                                                 insects, disease, messy fruit
Poplars, Willows, and    Populus and salix seeds Weak wood, fast growing
hybrids
Spruce                   Picea species           Visibility obstruction
Tree of Heaven           Ailanthus altissima     Invasive seed, weak wood
Walnut, Black, Butternut Juglans species         Messy fruit, allelopathy
Willow                   Salix species           Weak wood, messy
 
   (C)   Recommended trees. Tables 2, 3, 4, and 5 in division (F) below
constitute the official recommended street tree species for the city, and are
grouped by size, being small, medium, large, and parkway. No species other than
those included on the lists of recommended street trees may be planted without
special permission of the Board of Public Works and Safety, or the Parks Board,
or its designee. If special permission has not been granted, the cost of
removal and replacement of the undesirable tree(s) shall be charged to the
individual or firm who planted the tree(s).
   (D)   Alternate trees. Alternate trees may be planted with the permission of
the Board of Public Works and Safety, the Parks Board, or its designee. The
trees listed here are recommendations based on known trees at the time of
adoption of the ordinance incorporated in this section. Ongoing research and
production yields new species that should be prohibited due to unfavorable
characteristics or new species that should be recommended due to favorable
hybridized characteristics. Consideration in either regard may be made for
future street tree selections.
   (E)   Size. The selection of small, medium, large, or parkway trees shall be
based upon the planting area available for the tree; small, medium, or large
sized trees are recommended street trees based upon the distance between the
curb and the sidewalk, as follows:
      (1)   Small trees (see Table 2 in division (F) below), minimum four feet
distance between curb and sidewalk;
      (2)   Medium trees (see Table 3 in division (F) below), minimum five feet
distance between curb and sidewalk;
      (3)   Large trees (see Table 4 in division (F) below), minimum six feet
(eight feet preferable) distance between cub and sidewalk; and
      (4)   Large trees for parkways, public open spaces such as parks, and
larger development areas. (See Table 5 in division (F) below.)
   (F)   Selection variety. Tree planting plans can include no more than 15% of
any one tree species to protect the health of the tree canopies and protect
areas from total tree devastation due to disease or insect infestation.
TABLE 2. Recommended Small Street Trees
Small trees for small spaces.
Some are suitable for under power lines (under 25 feet tall). If not sure of
line height, check with Power and Light Department.
Minimum growing space 4 feet from curb to sidewalk.
Common Name Scientific Name Dimensions (Tree Height by Some Suggested Cultivars
                            Canopy Height)             and Notes
TABLE 2. Recommended Small Street Trees
Small trees for small spaces.
Some are suitable for under power lines (under 25 feet tall). If not sure of line height, check with Power and Light
Department.
Minimum growing space 4 feet from curb to sidewalk.
                           Dimensions
              Scientific   (Tree
Common Name   Name         Height by  Some Suggested Cultivars and Notes
                           Canopy
                           Height)
Allegheny     Amelanchier  25-28 feet Small tree, narrow crown
Serviceberry  laevis       by 20 feet ‘Spring Flurry’
American      Carpinus     30 feet by Only under high power lines. Check several cultivar specs
hornbeam      caroliniana  25 feet
Apple         Amelanchier  20 feet by
serviceberry  x            20 feet    ‘Autumn Brilliance’, ‘Princess Diana’
hybrids       grandiflora
Carolina      Halesia      20 feet by ‘Crushed Velvet’
silverbell    carolina     15 feet
Flowering     Crabapple    Varies     Many different types. See ‘Recommended Crabapple cultivars’ below
Crabapple     Malus sp.
Flowering     Cornus                 Plant only on sheltered sites, tree form with shade
Dogwood       florida
Pagoda        Cornus       20 feet by Under power lines with wide easement
dogwood       alternifolia 25 feet
Paperbarked   Acer griseum 25 feet by Moderate salt tolerance
maple                      20 feet
Persian       Parrotia     28 feet by Not salt tolerant, plant where not snow treated. ‘Persian Spire’ 25 feet by 10
parrotia      persica      15 feet    feet; ‘Ruby Vase’ 28 feet by 14 feet
cultivars
Shadblow      Amelanchier  10 feet by
serviceberry  canadensis   6 feet     Multistemmed, clumping.
                           clumping
Summer Sprite Tilia        20 feet by ‘Halka’, ‘Summer Sprite’
Linden        cordata      15 feet
Tartarian     Acer         25-28 feet ‘Pattern Perfect’, ‘Rugged Charm’
maple         tataricum    by 20 feet
Thornless     Crataegus    15 feet by
Cockspur      crus-galli   15 feet    ‘Inermis’
Hawthorn
Winter King   Crataegus              ‘Winter King’. Plant only where thorns will not be a problem, as in natural
Hawthorn      viridis                 areas
Zelkova       Zelkova      24 feet by ‘City Sprite’ zelkova
              serrata      18 feet
Zelkova       Zelkova      24 feet by Zelkova ‘Wireless’. More broad than tall
              serrata      36 feet
Recommended Crabapple Cultivars, Malus hybrids. Chosen for good to excellent resistance to scab, fire-blight, apple-
cedar rust, and powdery mildew. ‘Persistent’ fruits remain longer on tree.
‘Adams’   Pink, green  20 feet by Red fruit 5/8 inch, persistent
              foliage      20 feet
              White,       18 feet by
‘Adirondackmedium green 10 feet    Bright red fruit 1/2 inch
              foliage
              Rose-red,    20 feet by
‘Centurionreddish      15 feet    Bright red fruit 1/2 inch
              leaves
              Red buds
              opening to   8 feet by
‘Firebird’white, dark  10 feet    Wider than tall
              green
              foliage
              Red buds to
‘Lancelot’white        10 feet by Gold fruit persistent
              blooms, gold 10 feet
              fall color
              Double
‘Marilee’ white,       24 feet by Virtually fruitless
              medium green 10 feet
              leaves
              Crimson
              buds, pink   20 feet by
‘Prairiefireflowers,     20 feet    Dark red 3/8 inch persistent
              red-maroon
              foliage
              White
‘Red Jewelflowers,     15 feet by Brilliant red 1/2 inch persistent
              green        12 feet
              foliage
              Bud crimson,
              flowers deep 25 feet by
‘Robinson’pink,        25 feet    Dark red 3/8 inch
              bronze-green
              foliage
              Bright
‘Royal      pinkish-red, 20 feet by
Raindrops’  purple       15 feet    Red 1/4 inch persistent
              cutleaf
              foliage
‘Sargent    White, dark  5 feet by
Tina’       green        6 feet     Dark red 1/3 inch persistent. Very small tree
              foliage
              Pink buds to
‘Sparkling  white,       12 feet by Yellow to golden orange 1/4 inch
Sprite’     bright green 12 feet
              foliage
              Red, dark    25 feet by
Winter Gold   green        20 feet    Gold fruit persistent
              foliage
              Red bud to
‘Zumi       white        20 feet by Bright red 3/8 inch persistent
Calicarpa’  flowers,     24 feet
              green leaves
 
TABLE 3. Recommended Medium Street Trees.
Medium trees for medium spaces.
Growing 30-45 feet at maturity.
Minimum growing space of 5 feet from curb to sidewalk.
Common Name Scientific Name Dimensions (Tree Height by Some Suggested Cultivars
                            Canopy Width)              and Notes
TABLE 3. Recommended Medium Street Trees.
Medium trees for medium spaces.
Growing 30-45 feet at maturity.
Minimum growing space of 5 feet from curb to sidewalk.
                              Dimensions
                 Scientific   (Tree
Common Name      Name         Height by  Some Suggested Cultivars and Notes
                              Canopy
                              Width)
American         Ostrya       35 feet by  
hophornbeam      virginiana   25 feet
Blackgum         Nyssa        40 feet by Numerous cultivars, check dimensions
                 sylvatica    25-30 feet
                 Halesia      40 feet by
Carolina         carolina     20 feet    ‘Rosy Ridge’
silverbell       Halesia      40 feet by Mountain Silverbell
                 carolina     25 feet
                 monticola
Chokecherry      Prunus       25 feet by ‘Canada Red Improved’
‘Canada Red’ virginiana   20 feet
European         Carpinus     40 feet by  
hornbeam         betulus      30 feet
Hackberry,       Celtis       45 feet by ‘Prairie sentinel’, columnar, suitable in rows for formal planting
columnar         occidentalis 12 feet
Imperial         Gleditsa     45 feet by Check cultivar specifics for size. ‘Impcole’, ‘Streetkeeper’, ‘Skyline’,
Honeylocust      triacanthos  20-35 feet ‘Shademaster’
Japanese Tree    Syringa      30 feet by ‘Ivory Silk’
Lilac            reticulata   25 feet
Lavelle Hawthorn Crataegus x  30 feet by Fewer thorns than other cultivars, okay if limbed up
                 lavellei     25 feet
Maple cultivars, Acer rubrum  45 feet by ‘Armstrong’, ‘Autumn Flame’, ‘Redpointe’, and the like, check cultivar
smaller growing               15 feet    characteristics
Persian parrotia Parrotia     30 feet by Not salt tolerant, plant only on streets that are not treated for snow
                 persica      20 feet
Red              Aesculus x   40 feet by ‘Ft. McNair’
Horsechestnut    carnea       40 feet
Yellowwood       Cladrastis   40 feet by Remove lower branches over time as it grows, until clear 6 feet of trunk
                 kentuckea    40 feet
Zelkova, select  Zelkova                ‘Village Green’, 40 feet by 40 feet
cultivars        serrata                 ‘Musashino’, columnar 45 feet by 15 feet
 
TABLE 4. Recommended Large Street Trees.
Large trees for large spaces.
Growing 45 feet or more at maturity.
Minimum growing space 6 feet from curb to sidewalk.
Common Name Scientific Name Dimensions (Tree Height by Some Suggested Cultivars
                            Canopy Width)              and Notes
TABLE 4. Recommended Large Street Trees.
Large trees for large spaces.
Growing 45 feet or more at maturity.
Minimum growing space 6 feet from curb to sidewalk.
                            Dimensions
              Scientific    (Tree
Common Name   Name          Height by  Some Suggested Cultivars and Notes
                            Canopy
                            Width)
Basswood      Tilia
cultivars     Americana               Check cultivars for dimensions
              Tilia cordata
Elm hybrids   Ulmus x                 ‘New Harmony’, ‘Princeton’, ‘Patriot’, ‘Morton’, ‘Morton Stalwart’, ‘Morton Red Tip’
Gingko (male  Gingko biloba           Not propagated from lateral buds
only)
Hackberry     Celtis                  “Magnifica’, ‘Chicagoland’, ‘Prairie Sentinel’
cultivars     occidentalis
Honeylocust   Gleditsa                Check cultivars for dimensions
              triacanthos
Red           Aesculus      50 feet by ‘Baumann Double’. Sterile/seedless
Horsechestnut hippocastanum 40 feet
              Styphnolobium
Japanese      japonicum     45 feet by ‘Millstone’ 45 feet by 35 feet
Pagoda Tree   (Sophora      35 feet
              japonica)
Kentucky      Gymnocladus             ‘Espresso’
Coffee Tree   dioica
Linden,       Tilia         45 feet by ‘Sterling’, ‘Green Mountain’
silver linden tomentosa     35 feet
London Plane  Platanus x              ‘Exclamation’, ‘Bloodgood’
Tree          acerifolia
Sugar maple   Acer                     
              saccharum
Oak, Bur      Bur Oak                 For large landscape locations only, unless using ‘Urban Pinnacle’, 55 feet by 25 feet columnar
                                       - small acorns
Oak, Chestnut Quercus                  
              montana
Oak,          Quercus                  
Chinkapin     muehlenbergii
Oak, Northern Quercus rubra            
Red
Oak, Shingle  Quercus                  
              imbricaria
Oak, Shumard  Quercus                  
              shumardii
Oak, Swamp    Quercus                  
White         bicolor
Oak, White    Quercus alba             
Oak, Willow   Quercus                  
              phellos
Osage Orange  Maclura
(male)        pomifera                ‘Whiteshield’
              inerma
Sweetgum      Liquidambar             ‘Moraine’, ‘Rotundiloba’
              styraciflua
Zelkova       Zelkova                 ‘Green Vase’, ‘Halka’
              serrata
 
TABLE 5. Recommended Trees Suitable for Parkway, Parks, Natural Areas
Proposed parkway and development edge trees which are suitable for very large
easements or natural areas because of large size, fruit, or characteristics
detrimental in street tree locations. Trees from the large and medium street
tree lists may also be used as appropriate on large sites to obtain the
benefits of a healthy tree canopy.
Common Name Scientific Name Dimensions (Tree Height by Some Suggested Cultivars
                            Canopy Width)              and Notes
TABLE 5. Recommended Trees Suitable for Parkway, Parks, Natural Areas
Proposed parkway and development edge trees which are suitable for very large
easements or natural areas because of large size, fruit, or characteristics
detrimental in street tree locations. Trees from the large and medium street
tree lists may also be used as appropriate on large sites to obtain the
benefits of a healthy tree canopy.
                                      Dimensions (Tree     Some Suggested
Common Name        Scientific Name    Height by Canopy     Cultivars and Notes
                                      Width)
Bald Cypress       Taxodium distichum 70 feet by 45 feet   Tolerates wet soil
Black Hills Spruce Picea glauca var.  30 - 60 feet by 25   Slow growth
                   dens               feet
                                                           In large difficult
                   Robinia                                 sites as last
Black Locust       pseudoacacia       50 feet by 35 feet   resort, far from
                                                           people or vehicles.
                                                           Suckers
                                                           Acorns at maturity
Bur Oak            Quercus macrocarpa 80 feet by 80 feet   (35 years).
                                                           Tolerates dry soil
                                                           after established
                                                           Low growing. Wider
                                                           than tall except for
Cornelian Cherry   Cornus mas         18 feet by 22 feet   cultivars. Fruit
                                                           unsuitable for
                                                           street tree
                   Metasequoia                             Tolerates wet soil.
Dawn Redwood       glyptostroboides   100 feet by 25 feet  Excellent specimen
                                                           tree
Goldenrain Tree    Koelreuteria       30 feet by 30 feet   Parkway tree only
                   paniculata
Leyland Cypress    Cupressocyparis    75 feet by 15 feet   Medium water needed
                   leylandii
Norway Spruce      Picea abies        60 feet by 30 feet   Medium water needed
                                                           This low-growing
                                                           crab is low and wide
Sargent Crab       Malus sargentii    8 feet by 12 feet    and cannot be limbed
                                                           up attractively for
                                                           street use
Shagbark Hickory   Carya ovata        90 feet by 70 feet   Hickory nuts at
                                                           maturity
Shellbark Hickory  Carya lacinosa     80 feet by 60 feet   Hickory nuts at
                                                           maturity
                                                           Large leaves,
Sycamore           Platanus           100 feet by 100 feet exfoliating bark;
                   occidentalis                            good wildlife
                                                           habitat
                   Lirodendron                             Weak wood, place in
Tulip Tree         tulipfera          90 feet by 50 feet   large open parkway
                                                           area
 
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 97.04 SPACING.
   (A)   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three
species size classes listed in §
97.03, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following:
      (1)   Small trees, 30 feet on center;
      (2)   Medium trees, 40 feet on center; and
      (3)   Large Trees, 50 feet on center.
   (B)   Exceptions may be made in special planting designed or approved by a
landscape architect, certified horticulturist, or certified arborist. This
design must also be approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety, or its
designees.
(Ord. 2001-23. passed 12-13-2001; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 97.05 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb-lines and sidewalks
will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
97.03, regardless of the distance of space between curb and sidewalk, in no
instance, shall a tree be planted closer than two feet to the actual curb or
sidewalk.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 97.06 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   (A)   No street trees shall be planted within a triangular sight distance
triangle at corner lots at street intersections. The triangular space is
determined by a diagonal line connecting two points measured 15 feet
equidistant from the lot corner along each property line at intersections of
two residential streets or 25 feet at the intersection of any other types of
streets, except where engineering standards indicate otherwise.
   (B)   Trees must be planted so that its center is a minimum distance from
the following objects:
      (1)   Stop sign, speed limit sign, street name signs: 20 feet;
      (2)   Driveway, alley, fire hydrant, manhole/hand hole, water valve,
mailbox, power/light pole: ten feet; and
      (3)   Underground utility service lines running perpendicular to the
utility main: five feet.
(Ord. 2001-23, passed 12-13-2001; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 97.07 PUBLIC TREE CARE AND PERMITTING.
   (A)   Right of the city. The city shall have the right to plant, prune,
maintain, and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to
ensure safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
grounds.
   (B)   Permit for installation.
      (1)   It shall be a violation for any person to plant trees, shrubs, or
other plant material within any public right of way, landscape easement, park,
or other municipal property unless authorized by an approved development site
plan and subdivision agreement and/or a right-of-way permit from the Department
of Engineering and Planning. A permit may be refused when the planting is
likely to create a public danger or nuisance or to be detrimental to the growth
of adjacent trees.
      (2)   This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners or other interested party, providing that the
selection and location of said trees is in accordance with §§
97.02 through
97.06.
   (C)   Permit for maintenance.
      (1)   No person shall treat, spray, or prune a street tree or hire
someone to care for a street tree unless the city first grants a proper right-
of-way permit. The permit may be issued to property owners or certified
arborists. The purpose of this permit is to insure the planting of desirable
trees and the proper location and spacing.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Top trees within a city right-of-way or on other municipal
property;
         (b)   Prune horizontally a branch of more than one-inch in diameter;
and/or
         (c)   Cut limbs within a tree’s canopy back to stubs.
   (D)   Permit for removal.
      (1)   No person shall remove a street tree unless the city has issued the
proper right-of-way permit, except that no permit is required in an emergency
situation. The city may remove or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious
to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public
improvements, or is affected with any injurious disease or pest.
      (2)   City-owned utilities may remove or cause to be removed any tree or
part thereof which is in an unsafe condition, or which by reason of its nature
is immediately injurious to sewers, electric lines, gas lines, water lines, or
other public improvements, or any tree affected with any injurious fungus,
insect, or pest, or which otherwise poses an identifiable threat to public
safety. Notification will be given to the City Engineer, prior to removal.
      (3)   Privately owned utilities and communications shall notify the City
Engineer prior to removing any tree, except in emergency situations.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any removal or pruning of
street trees without the consent of the city shall be deemed a violation of the
chapter.
   (E)   Protection of trees during construction. Except for the city and its
agent, no person shall, unless otherwise noted herein, take the following
actions without having secured a tree work permit, and following the
requirements of the city’s “Public Improvement Design Standards and
Specifications Manual”.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 97.08 PRUNING AND CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree on private property overhanging any street or right-
of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not
obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk or parking lane or 15 feet above the surface of an
active travel lane on any street. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased,
or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the
safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub
on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along
the street from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic
control device or sign, or impacts existing utilities. The city shall also have
the right to remove overhanging limbs or branches of trees on private property
when such limbs or branches are dangerous for pedestrians on city sidewalks,
and drivers on city streets or alleys, and when the property owners of said
trees have not removed said hazards.
(Ord. 2001-23, passed 12-13-2001; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 97.09 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground. Stumps shall be removed within 180 days after a tree is removed.
(Ord. 2001-23, passed 12-13-2001)
§ 97.10 DAMAGE TO TREES.
   (A)   Damage to trees by automobile. In case of tree damage as a result of
an automobile colliding with a street tree in the public right-of-way, the
damage to the tree shall be noted in the narrative section of the police report
as to approximate or actual tree diameter, a description of damage to the trunk
including size, and location of damage to the tree. This description shall be
noted on the police report form in order that a claim upon insurance may be
made for repair, removal, or replacement of the street tree and surrounding
area affected.
   (B)   Other tree damage. It shall be unlawful for any person to fasten or
attach in any way to any defined street tree any rope, wire, sign, poster,
handbill, or other object; except, however, that the Police Department may
attach temporary traffic and parking control signs as necessary, but so as not
to damage trees. It is unlawful for any person in any other way to injure or
deface or permit any animal to injure or deface any tree.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Fines.
      (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter within five
days of the date of the notice of the chapter violation, such violator shall
pay a fine as follows:
 
Offense                   First Offense              Second Offense
Causing tree injury       $100 fine and tree repair  $200 fine and tree repair
                          or replacement             or replacement costs
Topping                   $200 and tree replacement  $500 fine and tree
                          costs                      replacement costs
Tree care, without
permit, including         $100 fine and tree repair  $200 fine and tree repair
unauthorized pruning      costs                      costs
causing tree injury
Tree removal or vandalism $200 fine, and tree repair $500 fine, and tree repair
                          or replacement costs       or replacement costs
 
      (2)   The fines will be collected by the City Clerk-Treasurer and
transferred to the General Fund.
   (C)   Failure to pay fines. If a violator fails to pay fines within five
days of the date of notice of code violation, such violation may be filed with
the County Superior Court II and such violator may be summoned to appear before
such court.
   (D)   Penalties. Any person violating any provision of this chapter upon
conviction or a plea of guilty in the County Superior Court II shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $500. Each day a
violation occurs shall be deemed a separate violation, unless otherwise
provided by state law.
   (E)   Restitution. In addition to the fines set forth herein, any person who
violates the provisions of this chapter shall make full restitution for any
damages or injury to persons or property as a result of such violation,
including, but not limited to, medical expenses, the value of any real or
personal property which has been destroyed, or the cost of repairing any damage
to real or personal property.
   (F)   Additional fees and cost. In addition to any fine or penalty set forth
above, if a violation must be prosecuted through the County Superior Court II,
the violator, upon conviction, shall pay reasonable attorney fees and court
cost as determined by the court.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 98: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
98.01   Policy statement
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Discrimination prohibited in the sale or rental of housing
   
98.04   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
98.05   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
98.06   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
98.07   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
98.08   Exemptions
   
98.09   Administrative enforcement
§ 98.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et. seq.
(Ord. 2001-22, passed 10-25-2001)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
and/or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABLED.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of the person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment; or
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq.
      (2)   The term shall not include current illegal use of or addiction to a
controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does the term include
an individual solely because that individual is a transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
98.03,
98.04,
98.05,
98.06, or
98.07 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protection afforded against discrimination on this basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or who is in the
process of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the
age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS. Pursuant to 24 C.F.R.
part 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. part 574.3, the definition shall include families
regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or
marital status of its members.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives,
mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated
organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers,
and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let, or otherwise to grant, for a
consideration, the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13) (Ord. 2001-22, passed 10-25-2001; Ord. 2016-13, passed 10-
12-2016; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 98.03 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   Except as exempted by §
98.08, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin,
or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status, or national origin; and
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (F)(3), discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied, or to be occupied, by
the person if modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after March 31, 1991, a failure to design
and construct those dwellings in such a manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
persons with disabilities in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow late installation
of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and
usability for people with disabilities (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
satisfies the requirements of division (F)(3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (F) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2001-22, passed 10-25-2001)
§ 98.04 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any other person in making available such a transaction,
or in the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTION
means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans, or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   To secure residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or familial
status.
(Ord. 2001-22, passed 10-25-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against a person
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation,
because of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2001-22, passed 10-25-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.06 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having encouraged any other
person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by this
chapter.
(Ord. 2001-22, passed 10-25-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.07 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of the person’s race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin and because the person is or
has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for, or participating in, any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because the person is or has been, or in order to
intimidate the person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because the citizen is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate, shall be fined according
to local, state, and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years or both; and if
death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Ord. 2001-22, passed 10-25-2001)
§ 98.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter and include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted because of race, color, or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members,
or from giving preference to its members unless membership in the club is
restricted because of race, color, or national origin.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons.
   (D)   This chapter shall not apply to housing for older persons as defined
in I.C. 22-9.5-3-4.
   (E)   This chapter shall not apply to the sale or rental of a single-family
house sold or rented by an owner if:
      (1)   The owner does not:
         (a)   Own more than three single-family houses at any one time; or
         (b)   Own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on the
owner’s behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title to, or any
right to any part of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three
single-family houses at any one time.
      (2)   The house was sold or rented without:
         (a)   The use of the sales or rental facilities or services of a real
estate broker, an agent, or a salesperson licensed under I.C. 25-34.1, or of an
employee or agent of a licensed broker, an agent, or a salesperson, or the
facilities or services of the owner of a dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by five or more families; or
         (b)   The publication, posting, or mailing of notice, a statement, or
an advertisement prohibited by I.C. 22-9.5-5-2.
      (3)   The sale or rental of rooms or units in a dwelling containing
living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four
families living independently of each other if the owner maintains and occupies
one of the living quarters as the owner’s residence.
      (4)   The exemption in divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above applies to only
one sale or rental in a 24-month period if the owner was not the most recent
resident of the house at the time of the sale or rental.
(Ord. 2001-22, passed 10-25-2001)
§ 98.09 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner, as set forth
in division (B) hereof, shall be vested in the Mayor of the city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the city, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Mayor shall refer all
complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) above for
purposes of investigation, resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their department, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Mayor and the Commission to further these
purposes.
   (D)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall provide information on
remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting this
information.
(Ord. 2001-22, passed 10-25-2001)
CHAPTER 99: FIRE AND SECURITY ALARMS
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Excessive fire alarms
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any device for the detection of an unauthorized entry or
attempted entry into a building, structure, facility, or grounds, or for
alerting others of the city of an unlawful act or a fire within a building,
structure, facility, or grounds, which when activated causes notification to be
made, directly or indirectly, to the Police Department or Fire Department. For
the purpose of this chapter, an ALARM SYSTEM shall not include:
      (1)   An alarm installed on a motor vehicle; or
      (2)   An alarm which signals or alerts only the occupants of the premises
protected by the alarm system, including an alarm located on a private
residence if the only response on activation of the alarm system is a sounding
alarm that automatically stops within 15 minutes after activation.
   FALSE ALARMS. An alarm eliciting a police or fire response when the
situation does not require police or fire services. For the purposes of this
chapter, this does not include alarms triggered by severe atmospheric
conditions or other circumstances not reasonably under the control of the alarm
user, installer, or maintainer.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 10-14-2004)
§ 99.02 EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity who owns or controls property
in the city on which an alarm system is installed to issue, cause to be issued,
or permit the issuance of more than three false alarms in a calendar year. A
person or entity who owns or controls property on which the alarm system is
installed shall receive a warning from the city for each false alarm. There
shall be no distinction between fire and security false alarms.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 10-14-2004) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   The person or entity who violates §
99.02 of this chapter shall pay as a penalty the sum of $100; provided,
however, for each subsequent false alarm in a calendar year the penalty shall
be the sum of $300.
(Ord. 2004-28, passed 10-14-2004)
CHAPTER 100: PARK CEMETERY
Section
   
100.01   Rate and charges
   
100.02   Exception
§ 100.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Grave charges.
 
Infant grave $225
Single grave $800
 
   (B)   Open/close of grave.
 
Cremation          $350
Infant             $225
Medicaid           $225
Traditional burial $800
 
   (C)   Disinterment or removal.
 
Cremation          $700
Infant             $450
Traditional burial $1,600
 
   (D)   Open/close of grave for free ground.
 
Cremation burial   $150
Traditional burial $250
Infant burial      $150
 
   (E)   Purchase of grave on contract. Grave must be paid for before funeral.
Funeral home responsible for open/close charges.
 
Balance payable in 90 days  
Down payment               $100 (per grave)
 
   (F)   Saturday services.
      (1)   Eight a.m. to 11:59 a.m. time of service with the funeral home:
 
Traditional burial $1,000
Cremation          $550
Infant             $425
 
      (2)   After 12:00 noon time of service with the funeral home:
 
Traditional burial $1,200
Cremation          $750
Infant             $625
 
      (3)   If the funeral party arrives after 3:00 p.m. on Saturday, the
funeral home will be assessed a $200 late fee.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 5-26-2021)
§ 100.02 EXCEPTION.
   An exception to the above and foregoing rates and charges is that any
employee of the City of Greenfield, Indiana or the Greenfield Fire Territory
who becomes deceased in the course of their appointed duties shall be entitled
to receive at no charge the burial rights to one plot designated by the
cemetery staff and the opening and closing of said burial plot for the purposes
of internment.
(Ord. 2022-36, passed 10-26-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
111.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS; SOLICITORS
      
112.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
110.01   Permit to operate
   
110.02   Use of poles
   
110.03   Regulations
   
110.04   Binding effect
Cross-reference:
   For recent provisions concerning cable franchise grants, see
TSO IV
   Franchise fees from cable television licensees to be deposited in separate
Telecommunication Fund, see §
30.28
§ 110.01 PERMIT TO OPERATE.
   (A)   There is granted to Greenfield Cable Television, Inc., hereinafter
called “company”, its successors and assigns the nonexclusive right, privilege,
and permit to construct and operate a community antenna and closed-circuit
electronic system within the corporate limits of the city, hereafter called
“city”, to furnish and sell the service from such system to the inhabitants of
the city and to use and occupy the streets, alleys, and other public places
within the city for the placement of wires, cables, and other supporting
structures necessary to this system. The company shall not assign or otherwise
transfer its rights in this franchise without the approval of the Common
Council.
   (B)   The permit granted shall be for a period of 15 years, and it is
granted for the installation and operation of a community antenna television in
accordance with the terms and provisions of the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 1973-16, passed 8-24-1973)
§ 110.02 USE OF POLES.
   The company shall use existing poles within the city and enter into a pole
attachment agreement with the Light and Power Utility where a satisfactory
rental agreement can be reached with the telephone company and electric system.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 REGULATIONS.
   The company will proceed as follows pursuant to Federal Communications
Commission’s regulations:
   (A)   Apply for all necessary grants or waivers within 90 days of the
issuance of the franchise;
   (B)   Apply for pole attachment agreements with the appropriate companies
within 30 days after the issuance of the franchise;
   (C)   Submit to the city detailed system layout plans within six months
after obtaining the necessary pole attachment agreements;
   (D)   Begin construction within 30 days after written approval by the city
on system layout plans and receipt of a certificate of compliance from the
Federal Communications Commission;
   (E)   Render service to customers in the first section no later than six
months after the commencement of construction; and
   (F)   Render service to all feasible areas within the city within 24 months
after commencement of construction.
(Ord. 1973-16, passed 8-24-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 BINDING EFFECT.
   All provisions of this chapter shall be binding on the company, its
successors, lessees, and assigns, and all the rights, authorities, powers,
grants, and privileges shall be held to inure to the benefit of the company,
its successors, lessees, and assigns.
(Ord. 1973-16, passed 8-24-1973)
CHAPTER 111: ITINERANT MERCHANTS; SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration required
   
111.03   Issuance of permit
   
111.04   Conditions of permit
   
111.05   Revocation of permit
   
111.06   Use of public property/roadway
   
111.07   Bond
   
111.08   Exceptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   HOLDER. Any person who has been issued a permit under this chapter.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant selling,
taking orders, or otherwise offering any goods, wares, merchandise, or services
within the city as contemplated under this chapter.
   PERMIT. The permit required under this chapter to operate as an itinerant
merchant within the city, which shall be granted in the form of an
identification badge to each holder.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate as an itinerant merchant without first
applying for and being issued a permit in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Each applicant shall complete an application form and submit it to the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer at least two weeks prior to operating as an
itinerant merchant or as otherwise provided herein. In addition to such other
information as the Police Department may deem necessary or desirable, from time
to time, the application form shall require:
      (1)   Applicant’s name, home address, and local address, if any;
      (2)   A photograph of the applicant;
      (3)   The name and address or principal office of the person, firm,
organization, or corporation for whom the applicant is authorized to conduct
such activity solely on his or her own behalf;
      (4)   A brief description of the type of goods or services to be sold and
a statement whether delivery of such goods or services is to be immediate or in
the future; and
      (5)   Prior to the issuance of any permit hereunder, the applicant shall
appear at the Police Department and allow himself or herself to be
fingerprinted.
   (C)   Upon submitting the application form, each applicant shall also
submit, in person, for the inspection of the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s
designee, written proof of his or her identity and a specimen of the
applicant’s signature.
   (D)   Each application shall be construed as a continuing application and
if, after the issuance of the permit, the information provided by a holder
becomes inaccurate for any reason, and such holder intends to continue to
operate as an itinerant merchant, notice of such change and the correct
information shall be furnished to the Clerk-Treasurer within 24 hours.
   (E)   Any permit issued under this chapter shall be for a maximum period of
three months, commencing with the date of issuance and expiring on the date
specified upon the permit. Upon expiration of a permit, the holder must either
reapply for a new permit or cease his, her, or its activity immediately.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 3-12-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
111.99
§ 111.03 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   On compliance of an applicant with the requirements of this chapter,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit in the form of a photograph
identification badge which shall be dated and signed by an authorized
representative of the Clerk-Treasurer and provided to the applicant who shall
personally appear at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. Under no circumstances shall
the Clerk-Treasurer issue a permit if the Clerk-Treasurer finds that an
applicant has previously had a permit revoked.
   (B)   Each permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed three months.
Each applicant shall pay the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $100 to defray the
costs of the administration of this chapter. Each applicant shall pay the
Police Department the sum of $10 for the replacement of a lost or stolen
photograph identification badge, during the effective date of any permit.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 3-12-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 111.04 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   All permits are nontransferable and entitle only the holder thereof to sell,
distribute, solicit, or canvass within the city for the period of time set
forth thereon, subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   All holders shall openly display and wear upon his or her person while
conducting his or her activities the identification badge issued by the Clerk-
Treasurer and shall provide the same for review at any time on request by any
police officer of the city or by any other individual.
   (B)   No holder shall enter into any house, building, or other structure, or
enter upon any land or other real property, without the prior consent of the
owner thereof.
   (C)   All holders shall be restricted to conducting door-to-door activities
between the daytime hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. during any weekday and
Saturday, and noon to 7:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   (D)   All holders are prohibited from conducting door-to-door activities at
a residence or within a neighborhood if a sign that reads “no soliciting” has
been posted at the front door or other conspicuous place of the residence or at
the entryway or other conspicuous place of the neighborhood.
   (E)   No holder shall make a false statement or misrepresentation of fact in
the course of conducting his or her activities, and all holders shall conduct
themselves, at all times, in an orderly and lawful manner.
   (F)   Any holder who takes orders for the future delivery of any type of
goods or services shall give written receipt to the purchaser at the time that
such order is made, with such receipt being signed by the holder and providing
a brief description of the goods or services ordered; the name, address,
telephone number, facsimile number, and email address of the entity with whom
the purchaser may communicate regarding the status of any such order the total
purchase price; and the amount of payment, if any received by the holder from
the purchaser.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 3-12-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
111.99
§ 111.05 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit may be revoked by the Police Department after notice and a
hearing for any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in an
application, or for failure of a holder to observe the conditions set forth in
§
111.04. Notice of the hearing contemplated herein shall be in writing, stating
the reason for the hearing, and the time and place thereof. Notice shall be
given to the holder at least three days, if by personal service, and at least
five days, if by mail, addressed to the holder’s last known local address, or,
if none, his or her home address, prior to the date for the hearing.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 3-12-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 111.06 USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY/ROADWAY.
   Before any permit is issued for a holder to conduct his or her activities
upon public property or right-of-way, the following conditions must be met.
   (A)   The applicant must obtain permission from the Board for the use of
said public property or right-of-way.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide proof of bodily injury and property damage
liability insurance in an amount satisfactory to the Board.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall a permit be granted to permit sitting,
standing, or moving within or upon a roadway, or a median between two roadways,
while engaged in soliciting, peddling, selling advertising, donating, or
distributing any product, property, or service, including, but not limited to,
tickets, handbills, newspapers, or other printed material, to or from an
occupant of a vehicle in the roadway; or conversation or discourse with an
occupant of a vehicle in the roadway unless otherwise permitted under §
111.09.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 3-12-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 BOND.
   (A)   Before the issuance of any permit, a surety and/or cash bond shall be
filed by the applicant with the Clerk-Treasurer, payable to the city in the sum
of $500 ensuring that should the holder not comply fully with all the
provisions of this code, other ordinances of the city, and the statutes of the
state regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise and
the business of a transient merchant, peddler, or solicitor, whichever shall be
applicable and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicable, said
surety shall pay all judgments rendered against the holder for any violation of
the above ordinances, statutes, or regulations, together with any and all
judgments, court costs, and attorney fees, that may be recovered by any person
for damage growing out of any misrepresentations, deception, or violation of
the aforementioned statutes, regulations, ordinances associated with the sale
or the vendor’s product, or through advertisement of any character whatsoever
printed, or through advertisement of any character whatsoever printed or
circulated in reference to the goods, wares, and merchandise sold or any part
thereof or service to be rendered by said vendor.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if a
principal or employer has previously executed a bond on behalf of all of its
agents or employees, then separate bonds need not be executed on behalf of each
holder serving as an agent of a principal or as an employee of an employer.
   (C)   All bonds shall be executed by the holder and/or his or her principal
or employer and an authorized representative of the surety or two responsible
freeholders residing within the city (or in lieu thereof a cash bond of equal
amount) conditioned as referenced above. In the event any holder elects to post
a cash bond, the same shall be retained by the city for 90 days after the
expiration of all permits issued under the bond in any calendar year.
   (D)   Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use
or benefit of an aggrieved person. Any person aggrieved by a holder’s actions
or inactions may petition the Board for recovery on the bond as appropriate.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 3-12-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 111.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Persons engaged in the sale of newspapers;
      (2)   Persons who have established permanent places of business within
the city limits and bona fide salespersons selling at wholesale to such
resident merchants; and
      (3)   Members of the public safety departments while engaged in a
fundraising activity.
   (B)   Additional exemptions may be added by resolution passed by the Common
Council, with the further provision that all exempt activities shall be
maintained on a listing of exceptions with the Mayor’s office and the Clerk-
Treasurer for public inspection and review.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 3-12-2008; Ord. 2009-12, passed 5-27-2009; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined
$50 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense, and not more than $250
for each subsequent offense within a 12-month period. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person discovered by a member of the Police Department to be
soliciting, selling, or taking orders for any goods, wares, merchandise, or
services, without a permit shall be issued a citation of violation, which shall
prohibit further solicitation, sale, or order taking or similar activity until
such time as the violator obtains a permit and otherwise is in compliance with
all provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   If a holder is discovered to be in violation of this chapter by a
member of the Police Department, such holder shall immediately be issued a
citation setting forth the date and time that the holder is to appear before
the Clerk-Treasurer to answer to the alleged violation and the holder shall
immediately cease and desist operations. Upon issuing the citation contemplated
herein, the holder and their permit shall be immediately confiscated by the
Police Department and held until such time as a final decision is made by the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   All fines issued pursuant to this chapter and attorney fees
attributable to the cost of collecting such fines shall be collected by the
Clerk-Treasurer with the assistance of the City Attorney as required.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 3-12-2008; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
CHAPTER 112: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Applicability
   
112.03   Food vendor or mobile food vendor unit operator — permit required
   
112.04   Permit — Duration and fees
   
112.05   Effect of cessation of business
   
112.06   Permit — insurance and indemnity
   
112.07   Permit — issuance
   
112.08   Permit — identification
   
112.09   Safety inspection required — mobile food vendor unit
   
112.10   Location restrictions
   
112.11   Prohibited hours
   
112.12   Standard of conduct
   
112.13   Safety requirements
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEVERAGE. Any alcoholic liquid including beer or wine or nonalcoholic
liquid, including hot or cold drinks, intended for use in whole or in part for
human consumption.
   CITY PROPERTY. All outdoor areas which are owned by the city or one of its
departments, leased by the city or one of its departments as lessee, or upon
which the city or one of its departments has an easement or right-of-way
including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, plazas, or other areas
adjacent to buildings owned by the city or one of its departments.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked, frozen, or processed edible substance or beverage
intended for use in whole or in part for human consumption.
   FOOD VENDOR. Any person who sells, serves, offers for sale, or gives away
food or beverages within the city as contemplated in this chapter.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR UNIT. A person who sells, serves, offers for sale, or
gives away food or beverages from any self-contained mobile unit, independent
with respect to water, sewer, and power utilities, capable of moving or being
moved, is meant to be portable and is not permanently attached to the ground,
consisting of an enclosed truck, trailer, bus, or similar vehicle that contains
equipment used for the sale and/or preparation of food or beverages merchandise
and is closed up when not in operation. An ice cream truck that does not park
or locate in any one place for longer than ten minutes is not considered a
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR UNIT for purposes of this chapter.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All outdoor areas which are not owned, leased, or under
the control of any governmental agency or entity, including, but not limited
to, streets, sidewalks, plazas, parking lots, or other areas adjacent to
buildings not owned by a governmental agency or entity.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any event so designated by the City Police Department and/or
the City Department of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 112.02 APPLICABILITY.
   It is unlawful to operate as a food vendor or mobile food vendor unit
operator in the city except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Food vendors or mobile food vendor unit operators that desire to sell
food or beverages for a period not to exceed four days, other than items exempt
in this chapter, must obtain a permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   All persons engaged in the conduct of selling or soliciting food items
must:
      (1)   Comply with State and County Board of Health standards and
regulations;
      (2)   Obtain all required state and county Board of Health certificates
that must be displayed in plain view. Additionally, a copy of said certificate
must be filed with Police Department upon requesting a permit; and
      (3)   Comply with the regulations in this chapter regarding the use of
public property under §
111.06.
   (C)   All persons engaged in the conduct of selling or soliciting food items
are prohibited from operating in a city park or on city property unless
otherwise approved by the Police Department.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 FOOD VENDOR OR MOBILE FOOD VENDOR UNIT OPERATOR — PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate as a food vendor or mobile food vendor unit
operator or to locate a mobile food vendor unit in the city without first
having secured a permit issued in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   A separate permit shall be required for each food vendor or mobile
food vendor unit operator.
   (C)   In the event any food vendor or mobile vendor unit operator proposes
to sell alcoholic beverages in conjunction with their operation, the
application submitted under this chapter shall be submitted six weeks prior to
the date on which the applicant proposes to commence operations.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 PERMIT - DURATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Each applicant shall pay a permit fee of $150 to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 25-25-2-1, all honorably discharged veterans shall be
exempt from having to pay any fees provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 112.05 EFFECT OF CESSATION OF BUSINESS.
   No deductions shall be allowed from the fee for a permit issued pursuant to
this chapter for any part of the term of which the food vendor or mobile food
vendor unit operator does not engage in such business.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 112.06 PERMIT — INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY.
   (A)   Each applicant for a permit shall provide a certificate of liability
insurance to the Clerk-Treasurer upon a form approved by the City Attorney,
insuring the applicant and naming the city as an additional insured, against
the following liability and in the following amounts relative to such activity:
      (1)   Personal injury: $300,000 per occurrence and $1,000,000 in the
aggregate;
      (2)   Property damage: $25,000 per occurrence and $50,000 in the
aggregate; and
      (3)   State minimum, at least for motor vehicle insurance coverage.
   (B)   Together with the application provided under this chapter, each
applicant shall provide a document approved by the City Attorney upon which the
applicant agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the city, its elected
officials, employees, agents, and representatives for losses or expenses
arising or accruing from the operation of such applicant’s business.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 112.07 PERMIT — ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Police Department shall, within 14 days of receipt of a complete
application for a permit, issue the permit to the applicant if the Police
Department finds that the application compiles with all requirements set forth
under this chapter and satisfies the requirements set forth upon the
application.
   (B)   Failure of the Police Department to issue a permit within 60 days of
receipt of a completed application shall constitute a denial of such
application. Upon being denied, an applicant may appeal such denial by filing a
written statement.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 112.08 PERMIT — IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   All permits issued by the Police Department under this chapter shall
be prominently displayed with the food vendor or on the mobile food vendor unit
and shall be shown to any person who requests to view the permit.
   (B)   Failure of an applicant to exhibit or display a permit in accordance
with this section shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of such permit
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 112.09 SAFETY INSPECTION REQUIRED — MOBILE FOOD VENDOR UNIT.
   If, at any time, the city has probable cause to believe that a mobile food
vendor unit is unsafe or in a mechanically unsound condition, the Chief of
Police, or his or her designee, may order a mobile food vendor unit issued a
permit under this chapter to undergo an immediate safety inspection. The
immediate safety inspection must occur within five business days and a copy of
the safety inspection report shall be promptly submitted to the Chief of
Police, or his or her designee. If the safety inspection reveals deficiencies
with the mobile food vendor unit, the mobile food vendor unit cannot be used
until such time as the deficiencies have been remedied.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020)
§ 112.10 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, the following location
restrictions apply.
   (A)   No food vendor or mobile food vendor unit shall locate in any city
park, unless approval has been given by the Police Department. No food vendor
or mobile food vendor unit shall locate in any parking lot, parking space, or
parking facility owned, leased, or managed by the city and located outside of
the boundaries of a city park, unless approval has been given by the Police
Department.
   (B)   No food vendor or mobile food vendor unit shall locate within 50 feet
of any facade of a ground level establishment that also sells food or
beverages, or locate within 50 feet of the perimeter of such an establishment’s
outdoor seating area, regardless of whether or not the mobile food vendor unit
is currently conducting business. The distance restriction only applies from an
hour before the opening time to an hour after the closing time posted by a
ground level establishment on the facade of its building.
   (C)   No food vendor or mobile food vendor unit shall locate in an alleyway.
   (D)   Food vendors or mobile food vendor units shall be located a reasonable
distance from all posted bus stops, crosswalks, driveways, alleyways, right-of-
way lines of two or more intersecting streets, and building entrances or walk-
up windows.
   (E)   Food vendors or mobile food vendor units shall only be located on
private property if the private property owner has provided both the business
operator and the city written permission for the mobile food vendor unit to
locate on said property.
   (F)   No food vendor or mobile food vendor unit shall locate within a one
block radius of a special event unless prior approval has been granted by
either the operator of the special event or the City Planning Department.
   (G)   Unless otherwise permitted under the terms and conditions of a permit
issued hereunder, no food vendor or mobile food vendor unit shall park on city
property in violation of any city parking regulation, restriction, or ordinance
unless operating under a permit issued hereunder. For example, if parking at
one or multiple, parking meters, the operator of the mobile food vendor unit
shall feed all relevant parking meters with the required monetary amount.
   (H)   No food vendor or mobile food vendor unit shall be located in a manner
which would significantly impede or prevent the use of any city property, or
which would endanger the safety or property of the public.
   (I)   No food vendor or mobile food vendor unit shall be located within 15
feet of any fire hydrant.
   (J)   Unless otherwise permitted under the terms and conditions of a permit
issued hereunder, no food vendor or mobile food vendor operating on private
property shall displace required parking or landscaping nor block any drives,
parking access aisles, fire lanes, sidewalks, or accessible routes required for
the private parking by the city’s unified development ordinance.
   (K)   Unless otherwise permitted under the terms and conditions of a permit
issued hereunder, no mobile food vendor unit shall be located more than one
foot away from the curb of the street on which it is parked.
   (L)   No food vendor or mobile food vendor unit shall park near an
intersection and in a manner that blocks the line-of-sight of drivers using
adjacent roadways.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 PROHIBITED HOURS.
   Unless otherwise permitted under the terms and conditions of a permit issued
hereunder, no food vendor or mobile food vendor unit shall be located on any
public property between the hours of 4:30 a.m. and 6:30 a.m.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 STANDARD OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   All food vendors and mobile food vendor unit operators shall conform
to the following standards of conduct.
      (1)   Food vendors and mobile food vendor unit operators shall conduct
themselves, at all times, in an orderly and lawful manner, and shall not make
or cause to be made any unreasonable noise of such volume as to be in violation
of
Chapter 95, the Nuisance Code.
      (2)   A device may not be used which would amplify sounds nor may
attention be drawn to the food vendor or mobile food vendor unit by an aural
means or a light-producing device (examples of such devices may include, but
are not meant to be limited to, the following: bull horns and strobe lights).
      (3)   No mobile food vendor unit may be permanently or temporarily
affixed to any object, including, but not limited to, buildings, trees,
telephone poles, streetlight poles, traffic signal poles, or fire hydrants.
      (4)   No mobile food vendor unit may be used to advertise any product
which is not authorized to be sold from that unit.
      (5)   Unless otherwise permitted under the terms and conditions of a
permit issued hereunder, no food vendor or mobile food vendor unit may make use
of any public or private electrical outlet while in operation.
      (6)   Each food vendor and mobile food vendor unit shall protect against
littering and shall have both an adequate trash receptacle and a separate
receptacle for recyclable materials.
         (a)   The trash and recyclable receptacles shall be emptied
sufficiently often to allow disposal of litter and waste by the public at any
time.
         (b)   The trash and recyclable receptacles on the mobile food vendor
unit shall not be emptied into trash or recyclable receptacles owned by the
city.
         (c)   Liquid from the mobile food vendor unit shall not be discharged
on or in a city sewer or drain or elsewhere on city property, nor on private
property without the express written consent of the owner thereof.
      (7)   Before leaving any location, each food vendor and mobile food
vendor unit shall first pick up, remove, and dispose of all trash, refuse, and/
or recyclable materials, including products spilled on the ground within 20
feet of the mobile food vendor unit.
      (8)   No mobile food vendor unit shall expose any pedestrian to any undue
safety or health hazards nor shall it be maintained so as to create a public
nuisance.
      (9)    Each mobile food vendor unit shall be maintained free and clear of
dirt, and finishes shall not be chipped, faded, or unduly marred.
      (10)   Mobile food vendor units which utilize a grill or device that may
result in a spark, flame, or fire shall adhere to the following additional
standards:
         (a)   Be placed approximately 20 feet from a building or structure;
         (b)   Provide a barrier between the grill or device and the general
public;
         (c)   If the mobile food vendor unit has a Type 2 hood, regularly
clean the hood and have it inspected and approved every six months and have the
fire suppression system of the mobile food vendor unit inspected and approved
annually; and
         (d)   The spark, flame, or fire shall not exceed 12 inches in height.
      (11)   A fire extinguisher shall be within reaching distance of the
mobile food vendor unit operator at all times and must be inspected and
approved on an annual basis.
      (12)   If the mobile food vendor unit operator prepares raw meat or such
other food that produces vapors comprised of grease, then such operator shall
install a K-Type fire extinguisher in conjunction with the installation of the
fire suppression system and have all components of such system inspected
annually.
      (13)   Mobile food vendor unit operators shall be required to obey the
commands of law enforcement officers or fire officials with respect to activity
carried out inside of the city’s jurisdictional limits, including, where
possible, the removal of the mobile food vendor unit and cessation of such
sales.
      (14)   No mobile food vendor unit shall ever be left unattended.
      (15)   Unless otherwise permitted under the terms and conditions of a
permit issued hereunder, mobile food vendor units shall not be stored, parked,
or left overnight on any city property.
      (16)   All food vendors and mobile food vendor unit operators are
required to collect and pay all applicable and appropriate sales taxes.
      (17)   No mobile food vendor shall provide customer seating.
      (18)   No mobile food vendor shall have a drive-thru.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   All mobile food vendor units shall comply with the following safety
requirements.
   (A)   All equipment installed shall be secured in order to prevent movement
during transit and to prevent detachment in the event of a collision or
overturn.
   (B)   All utensils shall be stored in a manner to prevent them from being
hurled about in the event of a sudden stop, collision, or overturn. A safety
knife holder shall be provided by the vendor to avoid loose storage of knives
and other sharp or bladed instruments.
   (C)   All foods and beverages to be used, prepared, cooked, displayed, sold,
served, offered for sale, or stored in a mobile food vendor unit, or during
transportation to or between locations shall be from sources approved by the
health authorities of the point of origin and must be clean, wholesome, free
from spoilage, adulteration, contamination, or misbranding and safe for human
consumption. The standards for judging wholesomeness for human food shall be
those promulgated and amended, from time to time, by the United States Food and
Drug Administration, United States Department of Agriculture, the State
Department of Health, the State Department of Agriculture, and the County
Health Department and published in the U.S.C., the I.C., or the IAC, and the
County Code.
   (D)   Each mobile food vendor unit shall be constructed so that the portions
of the unit containing food shall be covered so that no dust or dirt will
settle on the food; and such portions of the unit which are designed to contain
food shall be at least 18 inches above the surface of the public way while the
unit is being used for the conveyance of food.
   (E)   The food storage areas of each mobile food vendor unit shall be kept
free from rats, mice, flies, and other insects and vermin. No living animals,
birds, fowl, reptiles, or amphibians shall be permitted in any area where food
is stored.
   (F)   Hazardous non-food items, such as detergents, insecticides,
rodenticides, plants, paint, and paint products that are poisonous or toxic in
nature shall not be stored in the food area of the mobile food vendor unit.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined
$50 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense, and not more than $250
for each subsequent offense within a 12-month period. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person discovered by a member of the Police Department to be
soliciting, selling, or taking orders for any food or beverages without a
permit shall be issued a citation of violation, which shall prohibit further
solicitation, sale, or order taking or similar activity until such time as the
violator obtains a permit and otherwise is in compliance with all provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   If a holder is discovered to be in violation of this chapter by a
member of the Police Department, such holder shall immediately be issued a
citation setting forth the date and time that the holder is to appear before
the Clerk-Treasurer to answer to the alleged violation and the holder shall
immediately cease and desist operations. Upon issuing the citation contemplated
herein, the holder’s permit shall immediately be confiscated and held until
such time as a decision in the matter has been made by the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (D)   All fines issued pursuant to this chapter and attorney fees
attributable to the cost of collecting such fines shall be collected by the
Clerk-Treasurer with the assistance of the City Attorney as required.
(Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Loitering and unlawful assembly
   
130.02   Discharge of weapons
Smoking Prohibited in Public Places and Places of Employment
   
130.15   Definitions
   
130.16   Smoking prohibited
   
130.17   Policies regarding smoking in places of employment
   
130.18   Reasonable distance
   
130.19   Where smoking is not regulated
   
130.20   Posting of signs and removing paraphernalia
   
130.21   Compliance
   
130.22   Public education
   
130.23   Other applicable laws
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 LOITERING AND UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   No person shall loiter or prowl in a place at a time or in a manner
not usual for law abiding citizens, under circumstances that warrant a
justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons
or property in the vicinity, in any public way, street, highway, place, or
alley, and refuse to obey the lawful command of a police officer to move on or
provide to the police officer a lawful reason for remaining on the public way,
street, highway, place, or alley if the alleged loitering by the person would
create or cause to be created any of the following:
      (1)   Danger of a breach of the peace;
      (2)   The unreasonable danger of a disturbance to the comfort and repose
of any person acting lawfully on or in a public way, street, highway, place, or
alley reserved for pedestrians;
      (3)   The obstruction or attempted obstruction of the free normal flow of
vehicular traffic or the normal passage of pedestrian traffic on any public
way, street, highway, place, or alley; and
      (4)   The obstruction, molestation, or interference or attempt to
obstruct, molest, or interfere with any person lawfully on or in a public way,
street, highway, place, or alley to fear for his or her safety.
   (B)   No person who is a member of a group of three or more persons who are
loitering or prowling in a place at a time or in a manner not usual for law
abiding citizens, under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable
alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity, in a public way, street, highway, place, or alley, shall refuse the
lawful command of a police officer to move or provide to the police officer a
lawful reason for remaining in a public way, street, highway, place, or alley,
whether the group is stationary or in transit, if the alleged loitering would
create or cause to be created any of the following:
      (1)   Danger of a breach of the peace;
      (2)   The unreasonable danger of a disturbance to the comfort and repose
of any person acting lawfully on or in a public way, street, highway, place, or
alley reserved for pedestrians;
      (3)   The obstruction or attempted obstruction of the free normal flow of
vehicular traffic or the normal passage of pedestrian traffic on any public
way, street, highway, place, or alley; and
      (4)   The obstruction, molestation, or interference or attempt to
obstruct, molest, or interfere with any person lawfully on or in a public way,
street, highway, place, or alley, in a manner that would cause a reasonable
person or pedestrian of a public way, street, highway, place, or alley to fear
for his or her safety.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted under this section if the police officer
failed to comply with the procedure outlined herein.
   (D)   No person shall be convicted under this section if it appears, at
trial, that the explanation given by the person is true and, if believed by the
police, would:
      (1)   Have dispelled the fear for human safety;
      (2)   Have dispelled the concern for safety of property;
      (3)   Have dispelled the fear of a breach of the peace; and
      (4)   Have provided a justifiable reason for obstructing vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, subject to the discretion of the court.
   (E)   If a person takes flight on appearance of a police officer who
identifies himself or herself as such, or refuses to identify himself or
herself, or attempts to conceal himself or herself, the police officer has
probable cause to believe a violation of this section has occurred and is duly
authorized to make an arrest.
(Ord. 1979-26, passed 12-27-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or air gun, BB gun, or
any toy gun projecting lead, or any other type of missiles capable of producing
injury to the human body in and about the territorial and jurisdictional bounds
of the city, except in a regularly established shooting gallery or range.
However, this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law
from discharging a firearm in the performance of his or her duty; nor to any
citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his or her person or
property, or the property of another that is in that person’s care and custody.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $5 nor more than $50.
(Ord. 1967-20, passed 6-7-1967; Ord. 2019-25, passed on 5-13-2020) Penalty, see
§
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Prohibition of weapons in parks, see §
96.08
SMOKING PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES AND PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT
§ 130.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the servicing of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including, but not
limited to, taverns nightclubs, cocktail lounges, and cabarets.
   BUSINESS. Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
or other business entity formed for profit-making purposes, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold as well as professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural, or other professional services are delivered.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by any employer for direct or indirect
monetary wages or profit, including those employed full-time, part-time, on a
temporary basis, or by contract through a third-party.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, partnership, corporation, including a municipal
corporation, or non-profit entity, which employs the services of one or more
individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling which is enclosed on
all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of door or passage ways) which
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including all space therein screened by
partitions which do not extend to the ceiling or are not solid, “office
landscaping”, or similar structures.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer which employees normally frequent during the course of
employment, including, but not limited to, work areas, private offices,
employee lounges and restrooms, conference and classrooms, employee cafeterias,
and hallways. A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is
used as a childcare, adult daycare, or healthcare facility.
   PRIVATE CLUB. A facility owned or operated by an association or corporation
which shall:
      (1)   Not be operated for pecuniary gain; and
      (2)   Consist of a membership:
         (a)   Formed as a lodge, local chapter, or corresponding unit of a
fraternal order recognized on a national basis;
         (b)   Comprised of persons who have served in the armed forces of the
United States; or
         (c)   1.   Formed as a recognized, exclusive association of persons
organized for a joint or common purpose for which application for membership,
the payment of dues, and self-governance by the membership are distinguishing
characteristics; and
            2.   Where entry into, and use of the facility is restricted to
members and guests of members.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including, but not limited to, banks, educational
facilities, health facilities, laundromats, public transportation facilities,
reception areas, restaurants, retail food production and marketing
establishments, retail service establishments, retail stores, theaters, and
waiting rooms. A private residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE.
   RESTAURANT. Any coffee shop, cafeteria, sandwich stand, private and public
school cafeteria, and any other eating establishment which gives or offers for
sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as well as kitchens in which
food is prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere, including catering
facilities.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental. The term does not include retail stores where food or
beverages are sold for consumption on the premises or where an area has been
set aside on the premises for customers to consume food or beverages.
   SERVICE LINE. Any indoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for
or receiving service of any kind, whether or not such service involves the
exchange of money.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, weed, pipe, or any other lighted smoking equipment, or the
inhalation or exhalation of smoke from any lighted smoking equipment. SMOKING
does not include the burning of incense or candles.
   SPORTS ARENA. Sports pavilions, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing arenas,
swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and other similar places
where members of the general public assemble either to engage in physical
exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness sports events.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-27-2005; Ord. 2006-6, passed 4-27-2006; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
§ 130.16 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, smoking shall be
prohibited in the following public places and places of employment, including,
but not limited to, the following areas:
      (1)   Elevators;
      (2)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and any other common
use areas;
      (3)   Buses, taxicabs, and other means of public transit under the
authority of the city and ticket, boarding, and waiting areas of public transit
depots;
      (4)   Service lines;
      (5)   Retail stores;
      (6)   All areas available to and customarily used by the general public
in all governmental offices, private businesses, and non-profit entities
patronized by the public;
      (7)   Restaurants;
      (8)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries, and museums;
      (9)   Any facility which is primarily used for exhibiting any motion
picture, stage, drama, lecture, musical recital, or other similar performance;
      (10)   Sports arenas and convention halls, including bowling facilities;
      (11)   Every room, chamber, place of meeting or public assembly,
including school buildings under the control of any board, council, commission,
committee, including joint committees, or agencies of the city or any political
subdivision of the state during such time as a public meeting is in progress,
to the extent such place is subject to the jurisdiction of the city;
      (12)   Hospitals, clinics, physical therapy facilities, doctor’s offices,
and dentist’s offices;
      (13)   Private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-term care
facilities;
      (14)    Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
      (15)   Polling places; and
      (16)   Private functions in other public places like restaurants, hotels,
and motels.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, any owner,
operator, manager, or other person who controls any establishment or facility
may declare that entire establishment or facility as a nonsmoking
establishment.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-27-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 POLICIES REGARDING SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of employers to provide a smoke-free
workplace for all employees, but employers are not required to incur any
expense to make structural or other physical modifications.
   (B)   Within 120 days of the adoption of this subchapter, each employer
having an enclosed place of employment located within the city shall adopt,
implement, make known, and maintain a written smoking policy that shall contain
the following requirements: smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed
facilities within a place of employment without exception. This includes common
work areas, auditoriums, classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, private
offices, elevators, hallways, medical facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges,
stairs, restrooms, vehicles with more than one occupant, and all other enclosed
facilities.
   (C)   The smoking policy shall be communicated to all employees within three
weeks of its adoption.
   (D)   All employers shall supply a written copy of the smoking policy upon
request to any existing or prospective employee.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-27-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking may occur at a reasonable distance outside any area where smoking is
prohibited to ensure that tobacco smoke does not enter the area through
entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or any other means. It shall be a
violation for smoke to be detected in any area where smoking is prohibited.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-27-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall not be subject to the smoking restrictions of this
subchapter:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult
daycare, or healthcare facility;
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms;
   (C)   Retail tobacco stores, provided that smoke from these places does not
infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this
subchapter;
   (D)   Outdoor areas of places of employment;
   (E)   Bar; and
   (F)   Private club.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-27-2005)
§ 130.20 POSTING OF SIGNS AND REMOVING PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   “No smoking” signs or the international “no smoking” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly, sufficiently, and
conspicuously posted in every building or other area where smoking is
prohibited by this subchapter, by the owner, operator, manager, or other person
having control of such building or other area.
   (B)   Every public place where smoking is prohibited by this subchapter
shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly stating that
smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from any
area where smoking is prohibited by this subchapter by the owner, operator,
manager, or other person having control of such area.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-27-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Compliance of this subchapter shall be implemented by the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this subchapter
may file a written complaint with the Mayor’s office.
   (C)   (1)   Upon finding that any provision of this subchapter has been
violated, the enforcement designee(s) shall issue a notice of violation to the
person(s) responsible for the violation. The notice shall be in writing and
shall be served upon the person(s) responsible for the violation by one or more
of the following methods: delivery in person or first class mail.
      (2)   The notice shall state:
         (a)   The location of the violation;
         (b)   The nature of the violation;
         (c)   The fine assessed for the violation;
         (d)   That the fine shall be paid at the City Clerk-Treasurer’s
office; and
         (e)   That the fine may be contested in Hancock Superior Court #2.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-27-2005)
§ 130.22 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The city may engage in programs to explain and clarify the purposes and
requirements of this subchapter to citizens affected by it, and to guide
owners, operators, and managers in their compliance with it. Such programs may
include publication of a brochure for affected businesses and individuals.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-27-2005)
§ 130.23 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This subchapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking
where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-27-2005)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates the provisions of §
130.02 and is found guilty of the violation shall be fined no less than $25 nor
more than $500 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, operates, or
otherwise controls the use of any premises subject to regulation under §§
130.15 through
130.23 to fail to comply with any of its provisions.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, operates, or
otherwise controls the use of any premises subject to regulation under §§
130.15 through
130.23 to knowingly or willfully allow smoking to occur where prohibited by §§
130.15 through
130.23. It is a defense to this section if the foregoing persons or their
employees act in a reasonable and timely manner to personally inform the
violator of the prohibition and request that he or she refrain from smoking.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any area where smoking
is prohibited by the provisions of §§
130.15 through
130.23.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
130.15 through
130.23 shall be subject to a fine of $100 for each violation of §§
130.15 through
130.23.
   (F)   In addition to any fine or penalty set forth above, if a violation
must be prosecuted through the County Superior Court the violator, upon
conviction, shall pay reasonable attorney fees and court cost as determined by
the court.
(Ord.1979-26, passed 12-27-1979; Ord. 2005-17, passed 10-27-2005; Ord. 2019-25,
passed on 5-13-2020)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   MASTER PLAN CODE
      
152.   SUBDIVISION CODE
      
153.   THOROUGHFARE PLAN
      
154.   RESERVED
      
155.   ZONING CODE
      
156.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION CODE
      
157.   UNSAFE BUILDING CODE
      
158.   HOUSE NUMBERING PLAN AND STREET NAMING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Appointment of Building Inspector
   
150.04   Authority of Building Inspector
   
150.05   Scope of regulations
   
150.06   Regulations adopted by reference
   
150.07   Permit required
   
150.08   Permit application
   
150.09   Issuance of permit
   
150.10   Flood control duties of Building Inspector
   
150.11   Forms and fees
   
150.12   Inspections
   
150.13   Right of entry
   
150.14   Stop order
   
150.15   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.16   Standards of workpersonship
   
150.17   Violations
   
150.18   Right of appeal
   
150.19   Remedies
   
150.20   Repealer
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory thereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of Greenfield, Indiana”, or “Building Code”, and
may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this code”, and shall
supersede all ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, which
are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, limb, health, environment, public safety, and welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 150.03 APPOINTMENT OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established the office of Building
Inspector of this city.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall be appointed by the Mayor. His or her
appointment shall continue during good behavior and service, and he or she
shall not be removed from office except for cause after full opportunity has
been given him or her to be heard on specific charges.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 150.04 AUTHORITY OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is authorized and directed to administer and
enforce all of the provisions of this code, and he or she is also the official
designated and authorized to enforce the zoning code and other chapters of this
code of ordinances pertaining to planning and zoning and building construction.
Whenever in this chapter it is provided that anything must be done to the
approval of or subject to the direction of the Building Inspector or any other
officer of the city, this shall be construed to give that officer only the
discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established have been
complied with. No such provision shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, or
power to require conditions not prescribed by this chapter or to enforce its
provisions in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner. Any variances from adopted
building rules are subject to approval under I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
   (B)   The Building Inspector is authorized to employ sufficient inspectors,
assistants, and other personnel as may be approved by the Mayor, and necessary
to the carrying out of his or her duties. Compensation for the Building
Inspector and his or her inspectors, assistants, and other employees shall be
determined by the Common Council.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. 1989-21, passed 9-28-1989)
§ 150.05 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alteration, repair,
use, occupancy, maintenance, and addition to all buildings and structures,
other than fences and industrialized building systems or mobile structures
certified under I.C. 22-15-4 in the city.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. 1989-21, passed 9-28-1989)
§ 150.06 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, as set out in the following articles of IAC title 675, are hereby
incorporated by reference in this code and shall include later amendments to
those Articles as the same are published in the State Register or the IAC with
effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes.
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   State Building Code;
         (c)   State Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   State Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - One- and Two-Family Dwelling.
         (a)   The State Residential Code, 2020 Edition (the same being the
“International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings” published by
the International Code Council, as amended by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission, pursuant to rule effective June 22, 2001).
         (b)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes. State Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes.
         (a)   State Electrical Code.
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes. State Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes.
         (a)   State Energy Conservation Code.
         (b)   Modifications of the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes. State Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of this code, and rules, regulations, and codes adopted herein
by reference, are on file as required by law in the office of the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. 1989-21, passed 9-28-1989; Ord. 2001-26,
passed 12-13-2001)
§ 150.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit, using forms furnished by the Building Inspector, shall be
obtained before beginning new construction, or altering or repairing existing
buildings or structures if the alterations or repairs affect structural
strength, sanitary conditions, fire hazards, or pose a threat to personal or
public safety. All permits shall be issued by the Building Inspector, and all
fees provided for herein shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any work for which a permit
is required on any new or old structure, including repairs or alterations,
unless the person doing the work shall maintain a building permit for the work
in a full and a conspicuous place on the site of the work until the work shall
be finished and finally inspected. No permit issued pursuant to this code shall
be removed from the site of the work authorized thereby until permission for
its removal is granted by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for the purposes specified in §
150.07 unless the application for the permit is accompanied by two copies of
drawings, plans, and specifications showing in complete detail the following:
      (1)   Plat or map of the parcel of land involved, showing the location of
the proposed or existing building or structure, and set-back from streets or
property lines of the proposed building or structure on the lot or premises;
      (2)   A complete survey, showing all property lines and the size of the
lot or premises where any building is to be erected or constructed, certified
by a professional engineer or land surveyor registered in the state, unless, in
the opinion of the Building Inspector, the survey is not necessary;
      (3)   All construction and details;
      (4)   Except for single-family dwellings, electrical work, wiring, or
installations showing the exact location of all apparatus, and the size and
capacity thereof; the size of all main and branch conduits; the location of all
openings and cabinets, and the capacity of all conductors; provided, however,
that the requirements of this division shall not be applicable to meter and
service installations, or maintenance, repairs, or alterations to equipment
used by public utilities; and
      (5)   Except for single-family dwellings, plumbing work showing the exact
location of all fixtures and apparatus, and the capacity thereof; the size of
all pipes; the location of all openings and traps; and the capacity of all
conductors; provided, however, that the Building Inspector may dispense with
the requirement that drawings be furnished in cases of repairs the cost value
of which does not exceed $100, and which are done by a licensed plumber.
   (B)   Both copies of the drawings, plans, and specifications referred to in
division (A) herein shall be stamped “approved” by the Building Inspector, and
one such copy shall be returned to the applicant to be kept on the job site at
all times.
   (C)   All plans for building construction under the authority of the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state must also be filed with
the State Building Commissioner. In addition, a copy of a design release,
issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to I.C. 22-15-3-1, shall be provided to the Building Inspector before issuance
of a permit for construction covered by such design release.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. 1989-21, passed 9-28-1989) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The application, plans, and specifications filed by an applicant shall
be checked by the Building Inspector. If the Building Inspector is satisfied
that the work described in the application conforms to the requirements of this
chapter and other pertinent laws and ordinances, he or she shall issue a permit
therefor.
   (B)   Every permit shall expire by limitation if active work shall not have
commenced within six months of the date of issue; otherwise, the building
permit shall expire by limitation. All work so authorized shall be completed
within 12 months from the issuance of the building permit therefor; otherwise,
the building permit shall expire by limitation. However, a permit for a
building or structure which is a part of a conditional use authorized by the
city Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals shall expire by limitation if active work
has not commenced within 12 months of the date of issue. All work so authorized
shall be completed within three years from the issuance of the building permit
therefor; otherwise, the building permit shall expire by limitation.
   (C)   The Building Inspector is authorized to revoke a building permit or
other permit issued pursuant to this code, after ten days’ notification in
writing thereof to the applicant, if the work under the permit is not
proceeding according to the plans and specifications upon which the permit was
issued, or if the work is proceeding in violation of law, or of any provision
of this or other provisions of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 150.10 FLOOD CONTROL DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall perform the following flood control duties:
   (A)   Floodproofing non-residential structures. Require certification of
floodproofing by engineer/architect (structural dry floodproofing is allowed
for non-residential structures). The engineer/architect must certify to the
elevation to which the structure is dry floodproofed;
   (B)   Manufactured home standards. Require all manufactured homes to be
installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. Manufactured
homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement;
   (C)   Utility construction.
      (1)   Require new and replacement water and sewer systems to be designed
to minimize infiltration; and
      (2)   Require on-site waste disposal systems to be designed to avoid
impairment.
   (D)   Record keeping.
      (1)   Obtain and maintain records of elevation and floodproofing levels
for new construction or substantial improvements;
      (2)   Obtain certification of floodproofing by engineer/architect;
      (3)   Lowest floor elevations must be obtained for all new construction
and substantial improvements; and
      (4)   All information concerning and justifying any variances.
   (E)   Watercourse alteration and maintenance.
      (1)   Notify neighboring communities of watercourse alterations; and
      (2)   Maintain carrying capacity of altered watercourse.
   (F)   Review building permits.
      (1)   Review permits to assure sites are reasonably free from flooding;
and
      (2)   Review permits of proposed construction and development and
require:
         (a)   Anchoring (including manufactured homes) to prevent flotation
and lateral movement;
         (b)   Use of flood-resistant materials;
         (c)   Construction methods which minimize flood damage;
         (d)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air-conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities to be designed or located to prevent
entry or accumulation of water; and
         (e)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor of an elevated
building (if permitted by local ordinances) to be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
waters.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 150.11 FORMS AND FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Application for building permits shall be filed on forms,
provided with any necessary exhibits or documents, and shall be accompanied by
the filing fees herein specified.
      (2)   These fees shall be paid to the Building Inspector who shall
forthwith pay over such fees to the Clerk-Treasurer to the credit of the
General Fund of the city, and no part of the fees shall be returnable to the
applicant.
   (B)   Until all applicable fees have been paid in full, no action shall be
taken on any application.
   (C)   The building permit fee shall be in addition to any hook-on or other
connection charges, electric meter base charges, or other fees charged pursuant
to other city ordinances.
   (D)   The building permit fees shall be as follows:
Residential Construction Fee
Residential Construction                Fee
One-story single-family dwelling        $250
Two-story single-family dwelling        $345
Basement single-family dwelling         $45
Rear porch or deck single- family       $45
dwelling
Two-family dwelling                     $150/unit
Basement two-family dwelling            $45
Rear porch or deck two-family dwelling  $45
Multi-family dwelling                   $195/unit
Remodel multi-family dwelling           $90
Patio/porch/deck multi-family dwelling  $70
Addition/720 square feet and under      $45
Addition/720 square feet and over       $225
Accessory buildings/199 square feet and $45
under
Accessory buildings/200 square feet and $90
over
Private communication towers (31 feet   $45
tall and over)
Fences                                  $45
Private swimming pool                   $150
Spa/whirlpool, hardwired                $30
Demolition                              $10
Renewal of expired permit               1/2 of original fee
Reinspection                            $75
Improvement location permit issued      2 times original fee if permit is under
after construction started              $60. 3 times original fee if permit is
                                        over $60
Certificate of occupancy, issued after  - 0 -
occupancy
Certificate of occupancy, issued after  $300
occupancy
Re-issuance of improvement location     $20
permit
Re-issuance of Certificate of occupancy $10
(single- family)
Re-issuance of Certificate of occupancy $40
(multi-family)
 
Commercial/Industrial Construction Fee
Commercial/Industrial Construction              Fee
New construction 2,500 square feet and under    $450
New construction over 2,500 square feet         Add $0.18/square feet
Addition/alteration 1,700 square feet and under $300
Addition/alteration over 1,700 square feet      Add $0.18/square feet
Re-roofing                                      $75
Remodeling 800 square feet and under            $150
Remodeling over 800 square feet                 Add $0.18/square feet
First tenant/occupant finish                    $150
Accessory structure - nonpermanent, less than   $75
200 square feet
Hotel/motel                                     $45/unit plus $0.18/square feet
Miscellaneous structure (fence, exterior        $70
stairs)
Parking structure                               $14/stall
Swimming pool/spa/whirlpool                     $225
Towers                                          $225
Demolition                                      $10
Reinspection                                    $75
Renewal of expired permit                       1/2 of original fee
Improvement location permit issued after        Two times original fee
construction started
Certificate of occupancy, issuance prior to     - 0 -
occupancy
Certificate of occupancy, issuance subsequent   $300
to occupancy
Re-issuance of improvement location permit      $20
Re-issuance of certificate of occupancy         $10
 
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything contained within this section to the
contrary, organizations who possess wholly tax exempt status, pursuant to I.C.
6-3-2-2.8 and/or I.C. 6-3-2-3.1, shall not be subject to nor required to pay an
inspection fee for a temporary structure used in conjunction with a temporary
use pursuant to § 155.051 of the Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. 1997-15, passed 9-25-1997; Ord. 2002-23,
passed 7-25-2002; Ord. 2003-9, passed 8-14-2003; Ord. 2004-29, passed 10-28-
2004; Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-26-2006; Ord. 2006-14, passed 11-16-2006; Ord.
2015-19, passed 12-9-2015)
§ 150.12 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building
Inspector shall make or shall cause to be made such inspections of the work
being done under the permit as are necessary to ensure full compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and the terms of the permit. Basically, the Building
Inspector will make the following inspections for dwellings, businesses,
educational and institutional and church buildings, and industrial and
warehouse and bulk storage buildings:
         (a)   Footing;
         (b)   Framing;
         (c)   Plumbing and heating;
         (d)   Electrical and heating; and
         (e)   Final.
      (2)   Reinspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready for
inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as prescribed in §
150.11(D).
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall, in all cases, designate the stage of
construction when each required inspection must be requested by the permit
holder.
      (4)   The permit holder shall be responsible for notifying the Building
Inspector, orally or in writing, not less than eight working hours, i.e., the
hours between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., before covering or concealing work to be
inspected. No concrete shall be placed for foundations, slabs, or floors
without prior inspection. No electrical, mechanical, plumbing, thermal
insulation, or structural framing shall be covered without prior inspection.
   (B)   A sticker or tag shall be attached to the building permit certifying
each phase of construction or renovation. In cases where the work is not
approved, the Building Inspector shall cause a tag or sticker to be fastened to
the building permit stating that the work is deemed in noncompliance. It shall
be unlawful for any person to disturb or remove the tag until authorized to do
so by the Building Inspector. The permit holder shall repair or cause to be
repaired defective work deemed in noncompliance to this code or documents
listed in §
150.06, and shall notify the Building Inspector after the work is completed so
that reinspection can be made. No further work can progress until the previous
phase of construction has been approved by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.13 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector, or his or
her duly authorized representatives, may enter, at reasonable times, any
building, structure, or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon
him or her by this code.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 150.14 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Building Inspector may order the work stopped by notice, in writing, served on
any persons engaged in doing or causing the work to be done, and any such
persons shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the Building
Inspector to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.15 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered,
or repaired after the adoption of this chapter shall be issued unless the
building or structure was erected, altered, or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. The electric meter will not be energized until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 150.16 STANDARDS OF WORKPERSONSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workpersonlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner,
lease, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure, other than fences, in the city, or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Inspector’s decision
first through the City Council, and then to the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission of the state, in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 22-
13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7, as applicable.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. 1989-21, passed 9-28-1989)
§ 150.19 REMEDIES.
   The Building Inspector shall, in the name of the city, bring actions in the
circuit or superior court of the county, for mandatory and injunctive relief in
the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by
the Building Inspector. Any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may
be joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 150.20 REPEALER.
   The original Building Code Ordinance of the city, Ordinance Number 1979-24,
as amended, passed by the City Council on December 13, 1979, is repealed in its
entirety.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein; or shall fail to perform
any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Inspector; or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful order given by
the Building Inspector in connection with the provisions of this chapter, for
each violation, failure, or refusal, the person, firm, or corporation shall be
fined in any sum not more than $500. Each day the unlawful activity continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1988-30, passed 1-12-1989)
CHAPTER 151: MASTER PLAN CODE
Section
   
151.01   Designation
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Content
   
151.04   Authority of master plan
   
151.05   Effect of master plan
   
151.06   Continuing authority of the City Plan Commission
   
151.07   Master plan on file
   
151.08   Responsibility of the Clerk-Treasurer
   
151.09   Amendments
§ 151.01 DESIGNATION.
   The ordinances, as amended, comprising this Chapter 151 shall hereafter be
referred to as the “Master Plan Code of Greenfield, 1979”.
(Ord. 1979-24, passed 12-13-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Area planning, see I.C. 36-7-4-200 et seq.
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a single unified code consisting
of all plans, reports, and ordinances plus supplemental details as contained in
the report of the City Plan Commission entitled “Master Plan of the City of
Greenfield, Indiana”, dated 1979, that deal with the subject of planning and
zoning, as a comprehensive guide to the future growth and development of the
city and territory within the jurisdiction of the Commission.
(Ord. 1979-24, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 151.03 CONTENT.
   The master plan consists of a report dated 1979 and entitled “Master Plan of
the City of Greenfield, Indiana”, and a separate plan entitled “Comprehensive
Development Plan, Greenfield, Indiana”, Sheet 1 of 2, dated June 11, 1979, and
Sheet 2 of 2, dated June 11, 1979, together with the provisions of the maps,
charts, plans, and ordinances which have heretofore or may hereafter be enacted
concerning the following subjects: zoning, subdivision control, thoroughfares,
parking, school, park, recreation, and public areas, as well as other related
subjects.
(Ord. 1979-24, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 151.04 AUTHORITY OF MASTER PLAN.
   The layout, location, relocation, extension, or widening of thoroughfares;
the general design of neighborhoods and their street patterns; the use of land;
and the location of sites for schools, parks, recreation, and other public
uses, shopping centers, off-street parking lots, and community facilities shall
conform to the principles, policies, and provisions of the master plan.
(Ord. 1979-24, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 151.05 EFFECT OF MASTER PLAN.
   The City Council and all municipal boards, commissions, and other agencies
of the city, and the Board of County Commissioners or other governing body
within the territorial jurisdiction of the Commission, shall be guided by and
give consideration to the general policy and pattern of development set out in
the master plan prior to the authorization, construction, alteration, or
abandonment of any public installation required or necessitated in the interest
of the physical development of the city and its jurisdictional area.
(Ord. 1979-24, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 151.06 CONTINUING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY PLAN COMMISSION.
   The City Plan Commission shall, from time to time, consider and review
proposals with respect to changes and amendments in the master plan and, on
conclusion of such consideration including a public hearing thereon, shall
certify to the City Council reports on such matters.
(Ord. 1979-24, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 151.07 MASTER PLAN ON FILE.
   The maps, charts, plans, and ordinances which comprise the master plan are
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and are available for public
inspection during all regular office hours of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1979-24, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 151.08 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city is ordered and directed to keep on file, for
public inspection during all regular office hours, two copies of the master
plan, including maps, charts, plans, and ordinances referred to herein.
(Ord. 1979-24, passed 12-13-1979)
§ 151.09 AMENDMENTS.
   The master plan may be amended, from time to time, according to the
procedure set forth in the State Advisory Planning Law, I.C. 36-7-4-200 et seq.
(1976).
(Ord. 1979-24, passed 12-13-1979)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION CODE
Section
   
152.01   Subdivision Code part of the unified development ordinance
§ 152.01 SUBDIVISION CODE PART OF THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE.
   The Subdivision Code is part of the Unified Development Ordinance, which is
hosted on the city’s website at: https://www.greenfieldin.org/government/
planning-and-building/udo. Hard copies of the Unified Development Ordinance can
also be reviewed in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer weekdays during
regular office hours.
CHAPTER 153: THOROUGHFARE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Thoroughfare plan map
   
153.02   Designation of thoroughfares
   
153.03   Policies and directives
   
153.04   North Broadway designated limited access
   
153.05   Continuing authority of the Advisory Plan Commission
   
153.06   Amendments
   
153.07   Certification of the plan
§ 153.01 THOROUGHFARE PLAN MAP.
   (A)   The thoroughfare plan of the city entitled: “Thoroughfare Plan Map, A
Part of the Comprehensive Plan of Greenfield, Indiana”, dated June 8, 1987, as
amended, is the official thoroughfare plan map of the city, and is a composite
of two maps previously adopted by resolutions of the Common Council, and
entitled: “Thoroughfare Plan, Northwest Quadrant” dated October 13, 1986,
passed by Res. 1986-6, dated December 11, 1986, and “Thoroughfare Plan, All of
Greenfield Except the Northwest Quadrant”, dated April 13, 1987, passed by Res.
1987-2, dated May 1987, as amended. The thoroughfare plan map shows the
locations of existing and proposed thoroughfares within the city and its
environs.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-511, the “City of Greenfield Thoroughfare Plan
dated July 13, 2020, including Thoroughfare Plan Map” is hereby amended to
remove all references therefrom to the extension of McClarnon Drive on the
northeast side of the city from the retail area east of State Road 9 to Apple
Street, wherever said references may appear.
(Res. 1988-8, passed 8-11-1988; Res. 2020-8, passed 9-23-2020)
§ 153.02 DESIGNATION OF THOROUGHFARES.
   The thoroughfares are classified as to width and type in accordance with
their function as a part of the thoroughfare system, and are designated as
arterial, feeder, and residential streets as shown on the thoroughfare plan
map. Such streets are to be provided with the right-of-way widths shown on the
thoroughfare plan map and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
and are to be improved as required by the provisions of Chapter 152.
(Res. 1988-8, passed 8-11-1988)
§ 153.03 POLICIES AND DIRECTIVES.
   (A)   Opening or widening of streets. Whenever a street designated on the
thoroughfare plan map is to be platted as a part of a subdivision of land, the
right-of-way shall conform to the policies and specified designations and
indications in the thoroughfare plan, provided that where a street borders a
tract of land to be subdivided, the owner of such land shall be required to
plat only one-half of the right-of-way width designated for the street,
measured at 90 degrees to the center line.
   (B)   Location of streets. Whenever the locations of streets are indicated
on the thoroughfare plan map as following existing roads or streets, or
section, half-section, or quarter-section lines, or other established property
lines, they shall conform to such locations. However, streets lying wholly
within a subdivision, and not designated as following an existing road or
section line, may be varied in their alignment when the variance promotes the
plan of a neighborhood development and provides for the continuity of traffic
movement. Streets which following irregular alignment, or indicate revised
alignments, or are not references to established lines shall follow in a
general manner the alignment shown on the thoroughfare plan map. Their
alignment shall be subject to detailed surveys.
   (C)   Consideration of government officials. After adoption of the
thoroughfare plan of the city, the city shall be guided by and give
consideration to the general policy and pattern of development set out in the
thoroughfare plan in the authorization, construction, alteration, or
abandonment of public ways and structures.
   (D)   Issuance of permits. In the cases of premises authorized by the city
for the erection or alteration of structures or other improvements, the permit
shall be issued only of the proposed street and thoroughfare right-of-way as
set forth by the thoroughfare plan of the city will be protected from
encroachment and, for planning and zoning purposes, the proposed street and
thoroughfare right-of-way lines will be considered as the front line of lots
and tracts bordering such streets and thoroughfares, unless specific exceptions
are made in the Zoning Code.
(Res. 1988-8, passed 8-11-1988)
§ 153.04 NORTH BROADWAY DESIGNATED LIMITED ACCESS.
   North Broadway, between McKenzie Road and 200 North Road, is hereby
designated as a limited access thoroughfare with access points to be only at
public road approaches. See §
152.01 for definition of Arterial Street.
(Res. 1988-8, passed 8-11-1988)
§ 153.05 CONTINUING AUTHORITY OF THE ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
   Subsequent to the adoption of the thoroughfare plan of the city, the
Advisory Plan Commission may:
   (A)   Determine lines for new, extended, widened, or narrowed thoroughfares
in any portion of the city; and
   (B)   Certify to the Common Council the amended or additional plan under the
same procedure as established for the certification and approval of the
thoroughfare plan of the city.
(Res. 1988-8, passed 8-11-1988)
§ 153.06 AMENDMENTS.
   Each amendment to the thoroughfare plan of the city must be approved
according to the procedure set forth in the 500 series of I.C. 36-7-4. If the
Common Council wants an amendment, it may direct the Plan Commission to prepare
the amendment and submit it in the same manner as any other amendment to the
comprehensive plan of the city. The Plan Commission shall prepare and submit
the amendment within 60 days after formal written request by the City Council.
However, the Common Council may grant an extension of time, of specified
duration, in which to prepare and submit the amendment.
(Res. 1988-8, passed 8-11-1988)
§ 153.07 CERTIFICATION OF THE PLAN.
   The Advisory Plan Commission has subjected this amendment of the
comprehensive plan to public hearings and now certifies the thoroughfare plan
of the city for approval, with the additional request that the County Area Plan
Commission consider adopting and incorporating into their comprehensive plan
those parts of the thoroughfare plan of the city and the policies and
directives of this chapter for the territory beyond the corporate limits of the
city.
(Res. 1988-8, passed 8-11-1988)
CHAPTER 154: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
   
155.01   Zoning Code part of the Unified Development Ordinance
§ 155.01 ZONING CODE PART OF THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE.
   The Zoning Code is part of the Unified Development Ordinance, which is
hosted on the city’s website at: https://www.greenfieldin.org/government/
planning-and-building/udo. Hard copies of the Unified Development Ordinance can
also be reviewed in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer weekdays during
regular office hours.
(Ord. 2020-11, passed 3-25-2020; Ord. 2019-25, passed 5-13-2020; Ord. 2020-27,
passed 9-9-2020; Ord. 2022-4, passed 2-23-2022; Ord. 2022-16, passed 5-11-2022;
Ord. 2022-24, passed 8-10-2022; Ord. 2022-42, passed 12-14-2022; Ord. 2022-43,
passed 12-14-2022; Ord. 2023-20, passed 6-28-2023; Ord. 2023-24, passed 8-23-
2023; Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-14-2024; Ord. 2024-19, passed 6-12-2024; Ord.
2024-33, passed 11-13-2024)
CHAPTER 156: HISTORIC PRESERVATION CODE
Section
   
156.01   Historic Board of Review
   
156.02   Historic Preservation Officer
   
156.03   Powers and duties of Historic Board
   
156.04   Approval by Common Council required
   
156.05   Courthouse Square Historic District
   
156.06   Further surveying and mapping
   
156.07   Relationship to zoning districts
   
156.08   Certificate of appropriateness required
   
156.09   Application for certificate of appropriateness
   
156.10   Action on applications for certificates of appropriateness
   
156.11   Development standards
   
156.12   Preservation rights, demolition, and appeal
   
156.13   Maintenance
   
156.14   Visual compatibility
   
156.15   Visual compatibility factors
   
156.16   Street furniture and utilities
   
156.17   Enforcement of historic code
   
156.18   Filing fees and forms
   
156.19   Nonconforming uses
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 HISTORIC BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   There is established the Historic Board of Review of the city,
hereinafter referred to as the Historic Board. The Historic Board shall consist
of five voting members. The voting members shall be appointed by the Mayor of
the city, subject to the approval of the Common Council of the city.
      (2)   Voting members shall be residents of the city who are interested in
the preservation and development of historic areas or districts. In addition,
at least one member shall be a property owner or shareholder of a property
owner of real estate located within the historic district. Voting members shall
serve for a term of three years; however, the initial terms of members shall be
one member for one year; two members for two years; and two members for three
years in order for the terms to be staggered. After the initial appointment, no
member shall serve more than two consecutive terms without a three-year layout.
In the event any member shall no longer qualify because of residency or other
requirements, that member shall resign when the disqualification occurs.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the appointment and only for
the unexpired term of the vacant member.
   (B)   The Mayor may, with the approval of the Common Council, appoint
advisory members to the Historic Board as the Mayor considers appropriate.
   (C)   Members of the Historic Board shall serve without compensation but may
be paid for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (D)   The Historic Board shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and a
Vice-Chairperson, who shall serve for one year and who may be reelected. The
Chairperson shall preside over the Historic Board and shall have the right to
vote. In the absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson
shall perform the duties of the Chairperson. The Building Inspector shall serve
as Secretary of the Historic Board. The Historic Board shall adopt rules for
the transaction of its business not inconsistent with this code. The rules must
include the time and place of regular meetings and a procedure for the calling
of special meetings. All meetings of the Historic Board must be open to the
public and a public record shall be kept of the Historic Board’s resolutions,
proceedings, and actions.
   (E)   The Historic Board shall hold regular meetings, at least monthly,
except when it has no business pending.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984)
§ 156.02 HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICER.
   The Building Inspector, who shall be the administrator, and his or her staff
shall provide such technical, administrative, and clerical assistance as
required by the Historic Board of Review.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984)
§ 156.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF HISTORIC BOARD.
   (A)   The Historic Board shall be concerned with those elements of
development, redevelopment, rehabilitation, and preservation that affect visual
quality in an historic district, and with controlling signage. However, the
Historic Board may not consider details of design, interior arrangements, or
building features, if those details, arrangements, or features are not subject
to public view, and may not make any requirement except for the purpose of
preventing development, alteration, or demolition in the historic district
obviously incongruous with the historic district.
   (B)   The Historic Board shall conduct a survey to identify historic
buildings, structures, and places located within the city. However, neither the
survey nor any other action of the Historic Board shall affect any property not
located within the city limits.
   (C)   Based on its survey, the Historic Board shall submit to the Common
Council of the city a map describing the boundaries of a historic district or
historic districts. A district may be limited to the boundaries of a property
containing a single building, structure, or site. The map may divide a district
into primary and secondary areas. All of any district created by the provisions
of this code shall be considered a primary area if the map makes no contrary
designation.
   (D)   The Historic Board shall also classify and designate on the map all
buildings and structures within each historic district described on the map.
Buildings and structures shall be classified as historic or nonhistoric, in the
following manner:
      (1)   (a)   Historic buildings and structures must possess identified
historic or architectural merit of a degree warranting their preservation. They
may be further classified as:
            1.   Outstanding;
            2.   Notable;
            3.   Contributing; or
            4.    Noncontributing.
         (b)   In lieu of the further classifications set forth in divisions
(D)(1)(a)1. through (D)(1)(a)4. above, the Historic Board may devise its own
system of further classification of historic buildings and structures.
      (2)   Nonhistoric: those buildings and structures not classified on the
map as historic.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984; Ord. 1985-31, passed 12-12-1985)
§ 156.04 APPROVAL BY COMMON COUNCIL REQUIRED.
   The map setting forth the historic district boundaries and building
classifications must be submitted to, and approved in an ordinance by the
Common Council before the historic district is established and the building
classifications take effect.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984)
§ 156.05 COURTHOUSE SQUARE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Courthouse Square Historic District is established. Generally,
this district encompasses Main Street from Pennsylvania to East Streets and
State and East Streets from South Street to North Street; specifically, this
district is delineated on a map, identified as Map 1, which is made a part of
this chapter by reference. The historic resources in the Courthouse Square
Historical District have been recorded in the “Hancock County Interim Report”
as part of the Indiana Sites and Structures Inventory, June, 1983, and all
amendments thereto. Another report, “Revitalization Plan for Greenfield,
Indiana”, November, 1983, prepared by Howard Needles Tammen and Bergendoff, and
all amendments thereto, analyzes and explains conditions in the Courthouse
Square Historical District. A copy of each of these reports are on file in the
offices of the City Clerk-Treasurer and the Historic Preservation Officer and
are available for public inspection during regular office hours.
   (B)   The historic district boundary maps required by §
156.04 are hereby adopted by reference as fully as if set out in length herein,
and are hereby approved by the Common Council.
(Ord. 1985-15, passed 6-27-1985)
§ 156.06 FURTHER SURVEYING AND MAPPING.
   The Historic Board of Review may conduct additional surveys and draw and
submit additional maps for approval of the Common Council as it considers
appropriate.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984)
§ 156.07 RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The historic district regulations provided in this chapter are intended to
preserve and protect the historic, architecturally worthy buildings,
structures, sites, monuments, streetscapes, squares, and neighborhoods of the
historic districts. Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of the
historic district are subject to the regulations for both the zoning district
and the historic district. If there is a conflict between the requirements of
the historic district and the zoning district, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984)
§ 156.08 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS REQUIRED.
   A certificate of appropriateness must be issued by the Historic Board of
Review before a permit is issued for, or work is begun on, any of the
following:
   (A)   Within all areas of the historic district:
      (1)   The demolition of any building;
      (2)   The moving of any building;
      (3)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of existing
buildings by additions, reconstruction, alteration, or maintenance involving
exterior color changes; or
      (4)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory building
or structure subject to view from a public way.
   (B)   Within a primary area of the historic district:
      (1)   A change in walls and fences or construction of walls and fences,
if along public ways; or
      (2)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of nonhistoric
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration, or maintenance involving exterior color changes.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.09 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   Application for a certificate of appropriateness may be made in the office
of the Building Inspector on forms provided by the Historic Board of Review as
provided for in §
156.18. Detailed drawings, plans, or specifications are not required. However,
to the extent reasonably required for the Historic Board to make a decision,
each application must be accompanied by sketches, drawings, photographs,
descriptions, or other information showing the proposed exterior alterations,
additions, changes, or new construction.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984)
§ 156.10 ACTION ON APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   The Historic Board of Review may advise and make recommendations to
the applicant before acting on an application for a certificate of
appropriateness.
   (B)   If an application for a certificate of appropriateness:
      (1)   Is approved by the Board; or
      (2)   Is not acted on by the Board within 30 days after it is filed, a
certificate of appropriateness shall be issued by the Building Inspector. If
the certificate is issued, the application shall be processed in the same
manner as applications for building or demolition permits required by the city,
if any, are processed. If no building or demolition permits are required by the
city, the applicant may proceed with the work authorized by the certificate.
   (C)   If the Historic Board denies an application for a certificate of
appropriateness within 30 days after it is filed, the certificate may not be
issued. The Historic Board must state its reasons for the denial, in writing,
and must advise the applicant. An application that has been denied may not be
processed as an application for a building or demolition permit and does not
authorize any work by the applicant.
   (D)   The Historic Board may grant an extension of the 30-day limit
prescribed by divisions (B) and (C) above if the applicant agrees to it.
   (E)   A certificate of appropriateness permit shall be deemed to authorize
the particular changes reflected on the permit. The permit will expire if, for
any reason, the change has not commenced within one year, and the construction
or alteration completed within 12 months after commencement of the work.
   (F)   Certificates of appropriateness shall be granted if the Historic Board
determines that the proposed action is not obviously incongruous with the
historic district and shall not be granted if the proposed action is obviously
incongruous with the historic district. In determining whether a particular
proposal is obviously incongruous with the historic district, the Historic
Board shall take into account the purposes of this chapter, the visual
compatibility standards contained in this chapter, the historic and
architectural significance of the structure and the effect of the proposed
change in diminishing or enhancing the significance, the effect of the proposed
change on the streetscape, the effect of the proposed change on surrounding
structures, and the effect of the proposed change on the district as a whole.
The Historic Board shall act in a manner which preserves the visual aspects of
the architectural and historic character of the district by assuring that
obviously incongruous changes are not allowed.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984)
§ 156.11 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   A historic building or structure, or any part of or appurtenance to
such a building or structure, including stone walls, fences, light fixtures,
steps, paving, and signs, may be moved, reconstructed, altered, or maintained
only in a manner that will preserve the historical and architectural character
of the building, structure, or appurtenance.
   (B)   An historic building may be relocated to another site only if it is
shown that preservation on its current site is inconsistent with division (A)
above.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.12 PRESERVATION RIGHTS, DEMOLITION, AND APPEAL.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to preserve historic districts that are
important to the education, culture, traditions, and economic values of the
city and to afford the city’s historical organizations, and other interested
persons, the opportunity to acquire or to arrange for the preservation of these
buildings.
   (B)   If a property owner shows that a historic building is incapable of
earning an economic return on its value, as appraised by a qualified real
estate appraiser, and the Historic Board of Review fails to approve the
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness, the building may be demolished.
However, before a demolition permit is issued or demolition proceeds, notice of
proposed demolition must be given for a period fixed by the Historic Board,
based on the Board’s classification on the approved map, but not less than 60
days nor more than one year. Notice must be posted on the premises of the
building proposed for demolition in a location clearly visible from the street.
In addition, notice must be published in accordance with I.C. 36-7-11-14.
   (C)   The Historic Board may approve a certificate of appropriateness, at
any time, during the notice period under division (B) above. If the certificate
is approved, a permit for demolition shall be issued without further delay and
demolition may proceed.
   (D)   A decision of the Historic Board is subject to judicial review under
I.C. 4-21.5-5-1, as if it were a decision of a state agency.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984)
§ 156.13 MAINTENANCE.
   Historic buildings shall be maintained to meet the applicable requirements
established under statute for buildings generally.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.14 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY.
   The construction of a new building or structure, and the moving,
reconstruction, alteration, major maintenance, or repair involving a color
change conspicuously affecting the external appearance of any nonhistoric
building, structure, or appurtenance within the primary area must be generally
of a design, form, proportion, mass, configuration, building material, texture,
color, and location on a lot compatible with buildings in the historic
district, particularly with buildings designated as historic, and with squares
and places to which it is visually related.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.15 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY FACTORS.
   Within the primary area of the historic district, new buildings and
structures, as well as buildings, structures, and appurtenances, that are
moved, reconstructed, materially altered, repaired, or changed in color, must
be visually compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which they are
visually related generally in terms of the following visual compatibility
factors.
   (A)   Height. The height of proposed buildings must be visually compatible
with adjacent buildings.
   (B)   Proportion of building’s front facade. The relationship of the width
of a building to the height of the front elevation must be visually compatible
to buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
   (C)   Proportion of openings within the facility. The relationship of the
width of the windows to the height of windows in a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
   (D)   Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. The relationship of solids
to voids in the front facade of a building must be visually compatible with
buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
   (E)   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The relationship of a
building to the open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
compatible to the buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually
related.
   (F)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections. The relationship of
entrances and porch projections to sidewalks of a building must be visually
compatible to the buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually
related.
   (G)   Relationship of materials, texture, and color. The relationship of the
materials, texture, and color of the facade of a building must be visually
compatible with the predominant materials used in the buildings to which it is
visually related.
   (H)   Roof shapes. The roof shape of a building must be visually compatible
with the buildings to which it is visually related.
   (I)   Walls of continuity. Appurtenances of a building, such as walls,
wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses, and building facades, must
form cohesive walls of enclosure along the street, if necessary to ensure
visual compatibility of the building to the buildings, squares, and places to
which it is visually related.
   (J)   Scale of a building. The size of a building and the building mass of a
building in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches, and
balconies must be visually compatible with the buildings, squares, and places
to which it is visually related.
   (K)   Directional expression of front elevation. A building must be visually
compatible with the buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually
related in its directional character, including vertical character, horizontal
character, or nondirectional character.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.16 STREET FURNITURE AND UTILITIES.
   (A)   Where possible, and subject to the requirements of the Board of Public
Works and Safety, all new utility lines shall be underground in the historic
district.
   (B)   All light standards placed in the front yard of any structures or
premises shall be of a design which is compatible with lighting throughout the
historic district, and subject to the approval of the Historic Board of Review.
   (C)   The design and location of all items of street furniture must be
approved prior to placement and subject to the approval of the Historic Board.
Similar designs should be used throughout the historic district.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.17 ENFORCEMENT OF HISTORIC CODE.
   (A)   Notice of violations. Whenever the Historic Board finds that the owner
of property in any historic district has neglected to keep the property and
premises in a clean, sanitary, and tidy condition, or has failed to maintain
any structure in a good state of repair and in a safe condition, the Historic
Board may give the owner written notice to correct the failures or violations
within 30 days after receipt of notice, and if the owner fails to comply, then
the Historic Board may bring appropriate enforcement actions as provided by §
156.99(A).
   (B)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce
this chapter. He or she shall receive applications required by this code and
furnish the prescribed certificates of appropriateness. He or she shall examine
areas for which permits have been issued, and he or she shall make necessary
inspections to see that the provisions of this code are being upheld. He or she
may be provided with the assistance of the Chief of Police in enforcing orders
and the City Attorney in prosecuting violations.
   (C)   Building Inspector’s duties. For the purpose of this chapter of the
code, the Building Inspector shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Upon finding that any of the provisions of this chapter of the code
are being violated, he or she shall notify, in writing, the person responsible
for the violation, ordering the action necessary to correct the violation;
      (2)   Order discontinuance of any illegal work being done;
      (3)   Order removal of illegal buildings and structures or illegal
additions or structural alterations; or
      (4)   Take any other action authorized by this code to ensure compliance
with or prevent violation of this code. This may include the issuance of
certificates of appropriateness and such similar administrative duties as are
permissible under the law.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984)
§ 156.18 FILING FEES AND FORMS.
   (A)   Applications and petitions shall be prepared on the forms provided by
the Building Inspector, and accompanied by the filing fees herein specified,
and shall be submitted to the Building Inspector who shall forthwith pay over
the fees to the Clerk-Treasurer to the credit of the general fund of the city.
   (B)   Until all applicable fees have been paid in full, no application shall
be filed or processed by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   No part of any filing fee paid pursuant to this section shall be
returnable to the applicant or petitioner, unless specifically authorized by
the Common Council. In addition to the fees set forth herein, the applicant or
petitioner shall pay the cost of publication notices and due notices to
interested parties.
   (D)   Applications for the following shall be accompanied by the following
fees:
      (1)   Certificate of appropriateness: $10.
      (2)   Demolition permit: $25.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.19 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any building, structure, or land use in existence at the time of the
adoption of the historic revitalization plan that is not in conformity to or
within the zoning classification or restrictions or requirements or
architectural standards of this plan shall be considered to be a nonconforming
use and may continue, but only so long as the owner or owners continuously
maintains or maintain this use.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Remedy. The Historic Board of Review or Building Inspector or any
enforcement official of the city designated by the Historic Board may enforce
this chapter of the code and any covenants or conditions required or imposed by
the Historic Board by civil action in the circuit or superior court. Any legal,
equitable, or special remedy may be invoked, including mandatory or prohibitory
injunction or a civil fine. These enforcement actions (except those seeking a
civil fine) may also be brought by any interested person or affected owner.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person or corporation in violation of
Chapter 156 may be punished subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-3-8,
specifically a fine of not more than $2,500 for a violation of this chapter of
the code.
(Ord. 1984-19, passed 10-25-1984)
CHAPTER 157: UNSAFE BUILDING CODE
Section
   
157.01   Establishment of unsafe building law
   
157.02   Incorporation of state law by reference
   
157.03   Unsafe buildings as public nuisance
   
157.04   Authority of Building Commissioner to remedy condition
   
157.05   City officials not to exercise discretionary authority
   
157.06   What constitutes unsafe building
   
157.07   What constitutes substantial property interest
   
157.08   State standards for reconstruction, repair, or demolition to be met
   
157.09   Unsafe building fund
   
157.10   Violations
   
157.11   Average processing expenses schedule
§ 157.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the
Greenfield Unsafe Building Law.
(Ord. 1988-26, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 157.02 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby incorporated by reference in the
Greenfield Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the city for the
inspection, repair, and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said
law and the provisions of this chapter. In the event the provisions of this
chapter conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, then
the provisions of state statute shall control.
(Ord. 1988-26, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 157.03 UNSAFE BUILDINGS AS PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the city which are determined after
inspection by the Building Commissioner to be unsafe as defined in this chapter
are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Ord. 1988-26, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 157.04 AUTHORITY OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER TO REMEDY CONDITION.
   The City Building Commissioner shall be authorized to administer and to
proceed under the provisions of this chapter in ordering the repair or removal
of any buildings found to be unsafe as specified herein or as specified
hereafter.
(Ord. 1988-26, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 157.05 CITY OFFICIALS NOT TO EXERCISE DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY.
   Wherever, in the building regulations of the city or the Greenfield Unsafe
Building Law, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner, or any other officer of
the city, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of
determining whether the rules and standards established by ordinance have been
complied with. No such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power
to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance
provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Ord. 1988-26, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 157.06 WHAT CONSTITUTES UNSAFE BUILDING.
   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is hereby
supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or maintenance
in the city, by adding the following definition.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that such conditions or
defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or safety of the
public or its occupants are endangered:
   (A)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not of
sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate
means of exit in case of fire or panic;
   (B)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
   (C)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof, due
to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location;
   (D)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location;
   (E)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
   (F)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof, is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
   (G)   Whenever any portion thereof has wrecked, warped, buckled, or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction;
   (H)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause is likely to partially or completely collapse;
   (I)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
   (J)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
   (K)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50%
damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
   (L)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become an attractive nuisance to children; or freely accessible to persons for
the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
   (M)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists, or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the building regulations of this city
or of any law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the condition,
location, or structure of buildings;
   (N)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member, or portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting
qualities or characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics
required by law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area,
height, and occupancy in the same location;
   (O)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Building Commissioner to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is likely
to cause sickness or disease;
   (P)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by the Fire Chief to be a
fire hazard; and/or
   (Q)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. 1988-26, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 157.07 WHAT CONSTITUTES SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.
   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-
2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(Ord. 1988-26, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 157.08 STATE STANDARDS FOR RECONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, OR DEMOLITION TO BE MET.
   All work for the reconstruction, repair, or demolition of buildings and
other structures shall be performed in a good workpersonlike manner according
to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the
building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall be considered standard and
acceptable practice for all matters covered by this chapter or orders issued
pursuant to this chapter by the Building Commissioner of the city.
(Ord. 1988-26, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 157.09 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
city in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 1988-26, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 157.10 VIOLATIONS.
   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee, or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or any order issued by the Building Commissioner.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall
commit a class C infraction for each day such violation continues.
(Ord. 1988-26, passed 1-12-1989)
§ 157.11 AVERAGE PROCESSING EXPENSES SCHEDULE.
   There is hereby adopted an amended schedule of the average processing
expenses associated with an unsafe building code enforcement action as set
forth below.
   Average Processing Expense of Unsafe Premises
   Average Processing Expense of Unsafe Premises
(A)   Cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity and location of
persons who own a substantial interest in the unsafe premises
   Action                                             Each       Line Total
Title Search                                                       $300
Additional address research                                        See (C)
                                                                     below
                                                          Section    $300
                                                          Subtotal
(B)   Cost of notice of orders, notice of statements of rescission, notice of
continued hearing, notice of statements that public bids are to be let or that
the enforcement authority intends to accomplish the work, and notice that a
hearing may be held on the amounts indicated in the record
   Action                                             Each       Line Total
Order notice, publication                                          $35
Order notice, certified mail with return receipt (to owner and interest
holders)
      Three letters                                $5.75      $17.25
Order notice, regular mail (to owner and interest holders)
      Three letters                                $0.49      $1.47
Order notice, posting                                               $0.50
Recordation of order                                                $20
Recordation of hearing action                                       $20
Bid/work notice, publication                                        $50
Bid/work notice, certified mail with return receipt (to owner and interest
holders)
      Two letters                                  $5.75      $11.50
Bid/work notice, regular mail (to owner and interest holders)
      Two letters                                  $0.49      $0.98
Recordation of bid notice                                           $20
Invoice, certified mail with return receipt (to owner and interest holders)
      Two letters                                  $5.75      $11.50
                                                          Section    $188.20
                                                          Subtotal
(C)   Salaries for employees
   Employee                                    Pay/ Hours      Line Total
                                               Hour
Zoning Administrator                           $40.93                
      Additional address research                  4          $163.72
      Print, mail, publish, record order           2.5        $102.33
notice
      Post order notice                            0.5        $20.47
      Attendance at hearing                        1.5        $61.40
      Print, record hearing action                 1          $40.93
      Coordination with bidders                    1.25       $51.16
      Attendance at bid opening                    0.5        $20.47
      Coordination with Board of Works             2          $81.86
      Invoice/lien preparation and filing          1.5        $61.40
Building Commissioner                          $29.67                
      Initial building inspection                  0.5        $14.84
      Writing unsafe order                         1          $29.67
      Pre-hearing inspection                       0.25       $7.42
      Attendance/presentation at hearing           1.5        $44.51
      Print, mail, publish bid notice              1          $40.93
      Put together bid specifications              1          $40.93
      Attendance at bid opening                    0.5        $14.84
      Pre-work inspection                          0.5        $14.84
      Inspections during contractor work           1.25       $37.09
      Post-work inspection                         0.25       $7.42
   Employee                                    Pay/ Hours      Line Total
                                               Hour
City Attorney                                  $350                  
      Review documents                             2          $700
      Prepare and attend hearing                   2          $700
      Prepare finding of fact                      1.5        $525
      Conclusion of law and judgement              1          $350
      Communication with defendants                0.5        $175
                                                          Section    $3,306.18
                                                          Subtotal
(D)   The cost of supplies, equipment, and office space
   Line Item                                   NumbePrice,     Line Total
                                                          Each
Printed/copied pages                           200        $0.10      $20
Printed color pages                            50         $0.20      $10
                                                          Section    $30
                                                          Subtotal
(E)   Totals
                                                          Grand      $3,824.38
                                                          Total
                                                          Rounded to
                                                          Nearest    $3,820
                                                          Ten
 
(Res. 2020-B01/28/2020, passed 1-28-2020)
CHAPTER 158: HOUSE NUMBERING PLAN AND STREET NAMING
Section
   
158.01   Title
   
158.02   Authority
   
158.03   Uniform numbers
   
158.04   Designation
   
158.05   Display of numbers
   
158.06   Change in house numbering
   
158.07   Numbering lots in subdivisions
   
158.08   Removing or altering numbers
   
158.09   Street names
   
158.10   Circuit Court Clerk to be notified
 
   
158.99   Penalty
§ 158.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “House Numbering Plan
and Street Naming Code”.
(Ord. 1990-8, passed 5-11-1990)
§ 158.02 AUTHORITY.
   The City Advisory Plan Commission shall, by rule, prescribe a numbering
system for lots and structures and approve the assignment of street numbers to
lots and structures in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-405(b),
(c), and this chapter.
(Ord. 1990-8, passed 5-11-1990)
§ 158.03 UNIFORM NUMBERS.
   All buildings and building sites within the city shall be numbered in a
uniform plan, and all buildings shall have displayed on the front or street
side thereof the numbers as may be designated under the plan and the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1990-8, passed 5-11-1990) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.04 DESIGNATION.
   Buildings and building sites on streets running north and south or northerly
and southerly shall be numbered northwardly and southwardly from U.S. 40 (East
Main Street and West Main Street). Building and building sites on streets
running east and west or easterly or westerly shall be numbered eastwardly and
westwardly from S.R. 9 (North State Street and South State Street). Even
numbers shall be used for the northerly and westerly sides of streets, and odd
numbers for the southerly and easterly sides. In numbering, 100 numbers shall
be allowed for each block northwardly and southwardly from U.S. 40 (East Main
Street and West Main Street), and for each block eastwardly and westwardly from
S.R. 9 (North State Street and South State Street). One number shall ordinarily
be allowed for each 25 feet of frontage, whether improved or vacant, provided
that each existing house and tenement or building entrance with a frontage less
than 25 feet shall receive a number.
(Ord. 1990-8, passed 5-11-1990)
§ 158.05 DISPLAY OF NUMBERS.
   On notification by the Building Inspector of the proper number of a
building, the owner of the building shall cause that number to be placed and
continuously maintained in a conspicuous place on the front of the building. If
a building stands back more than 50 feet from a street (property) line, the
number shall be conspicuously displayed at or near the walk, driveway, or
common entrance to the building at the street (property) line, and so placed as
to be easily legible from the sidewalk or street. Numerals shall be at least
three inches in height.
(Ord. 1990-8, passed 5-11-1990) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.06 CHANGE IN HOUSE NUMBERING.
   The Building Inspector shall be authorized to change the house numbering of
any street or part of a street, or of any individual building or buildings,
when the change shall be necessary by reason of readjustment of any kind,
inaccuracy or mistake, or for any other cause.
(Ord. 1990-8, passed 5-11-1990)
§ 158.07 NUMBERING LOTS IN SUBDIVISIONS.
   No plat or replat of a subdivision shall be recorded unless each lot bears a
street number (within a border) in accordance with the requirements of the
street numbering plan.
(Ord. 1990-8, passed 5-11-1990)
§ 158.08 REMOVING OR ALTERING NUMBERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, alter, or deface any house
number, properly assigned or placed on or near a building, or to place or
retain on any building any number other than the one duly assigned by the
Building Inspector.
(Ord. 1990-8, passed 5-11-1990) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.09 STREET NAMES.
   Streets shall be named and renamed by the Mayor so that their names are easy
to understand, and to avoid duplication or conflict with other names of streets
within the 46140 zip code area.
(Ord. 1990-8, passed 5-11-1990)
§ 158.10 CIRCUIT COURT CLERK TO BE NOTIFIED.
   Whenever the Mayor names or renames streets of the Plan Commission numbers
or renumbers lots and structures under this chapter, the executive or the Plan
Commission shall notify the Circuit Court Clerk of its action no later than the
last day of the month following the month in which the action was taken.
(Ord. 1990-8, passed 5-11-1990)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or corporation of violation of this chapter may be punished
subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-3-8, specifically a fine of not more
than $2,500 for a violation.
(Ord. 1990-8, passed 5-11-1990)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTY
      
III.   STREETS
      
IV.   SPECIAL CONTRACTS
      
V.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VI.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1976- 8-26-  Annexes part of the southeast division of the east half of the southeast
15    1976   quarter of Section 29, T16N, R7E.
1976- 10-14- Annexes a parcel of land in the northeast quarter of Section 29, T16N, R7E.
22    1976
1977- 6-23-  Annexes a parcel of land in the west half of the southeast quarter of Section
7     1977   34, T16N, R7E, and in the west half of the northeast quarter of Section 3,
             T15N, R7E.
1977- 9-8-   Annexes a parcel of land in the southwest quarter of Section 31 T16N, R7E and
17    1977   the northwest quarter of Section 6, T15N, R7E.
1978- 7-27-  Annexes Lots 255 and 256 in the Chandler’s Addition.
8     1978
1979- 3-22-  Annexes a parcel of land in the northeast quarter of Section 29, T16N, R7E.
4     1979
1980- 4-10-  Parts of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 32, T16N, R7E.
5     1980
1981- 11-12- Annexes part of the west half of the northeast quarter of Section 28, T16N,
15    1981   R7E.
1984- 3-22-  Annexes approximately 104.096 acres in Section 29, T16N, R7E.
1     1984
1984- 11-19- Annexes part of the southwest quarter of Section 29, T16N, R7E.
23    1984
1985- 2-27-  Annexes part of the southeast and southwest quarters of Section 20, T16N, R7E.
3     1985
             Annexes part of the east half of the southwest quarter of Section 29, and a
             part of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 28, both in T16N,
1985- 5-23-  R7E.
11    1985   Annexes part of the east half of the southeast quarter of Section 29, and a
             part of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 28, both in T16N,
             R7E.
             Annexes the following parcels of land:
             (l) Approximately 60.804 acres in the northwest quarter of the northeast
             quarter and the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 29,
1985- 10-10- Township 16 North, Range 7 East;
27    1985   (2) Approximately 58.123 acres in the east half of the northeast quarter of
             Section 20, Township 16 North, Range 7 East; and
             (3) Approximately 114.927 acres in the east half of the southeast quarter of
             Section 20, and in the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 21, both
             in Township 16 North, Range 7 East.
             Annexes the following parcels of land:
             (l) All of Indiana State Highway 9 from Road 100 N (McKenzie Road) to County
             Road 300 N;
             (2) Interstate Highway 70 from 2,882 feet west to 2,476 feet east of the
             centerline of Indiana State Highway 9;
1985- 12-12- (3) County Road 200 N from 2,868 feet west to 2,483 feet east of the centerline
30    1985   of Indiana State Highway 9;
             (4) Part of the east half of the northeast quarter of Section 20, Township 16
             North, Range 7 East;
             (5) County Road 300 N from its intersection with Indiana Highway 9 to a point
             1,121 feet east; and
             (6) Meridian Road from U.S. Highway 40 to the north line of the southwest
             quarter of Section 31, Township 16 North, Range 7 East.
             Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include the following:
             (l) Three parcels in the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township 16 North,
             Range 7 East;
             (2) Approximately 4.623 acres in the east half of the southeast quarter of
             Section 20 and a part of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 21
             both in Township 16 North, Range 7 East;
             (3) A part of the east half of the southeast quarter of Section 20 and a part
             of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 21, both in Township 16
             North, Range 7 East;
1986- 8-14-  (4) Lots 1 through 13 of Souder’s Subdivision in the northeast quarter of
13    1986   Section 29, Township 16 North, Range 7 East;
             (5) A part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 29,
             Township 16 North, Range 7 East;
             (6) A part of the east half of the northeast quarter of Section 29, Township 16
             North, Range 7 East;
             (7) A part of the east half of the southeast quarter of Section 29, and a part
             of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 28, both in Township 16
             North, Range 7 East; and
             (8) All of East McKenzie Road from a point on the centerline of Brandywine
             Creek running east to a point 1,115.65 feet west of the southeast corner of
             Section 28.
1987- 4-23-  Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include a part of the southwest
4     1987   quarter of Section 34, Township 16 North, Range 7 East.
1987- 5-28-  Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include a part of the south
6     1987   half of Section 4, Township 15 North, Range 7 East containing 50.672 acres.
             Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include the following:
             (1) All of that portion of County Road 100N (McKenzie Road) that lies between
1987- 1-28-  Apple Street (County Road 200E) and County Road 300E;
18    1988   (2) All of County Road 300E that lies between US Highway 40 and County Road
             100N; and
             (3) A part of Section 33, Township 16 North, Range 7 East that is north of the
             north right-of-way line of US Highway 40.
1988- 8-11-  Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include property in the
15    1988   northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 15 North, Range 6 East, and a part of
             the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 16 North, Range 6 East.
1988- 1-12-  Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include property in the
31    1989   northeast quarter of Section 20, Township 16 North, Range 7 East.
1989- 7-27-  Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include Section 34, Township 16
14    1989   North, Range 7 East.
1989- 11-9-  Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include part of the west half
20    1989   of Section 20, Township 16 North, Range 7 East; and part of the south half of
             Section 19, Township 16 North, Range 7 East.
1989- 11-9-  Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include the south middle
24    1989   division of the south half of Section 15, Township 15 North, Range 7 East.
1992- 8-27-  Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include a part of the west half
13    1992   of the northwest quarter of Section 28, Township 16 North, Range 7 East.
1992- 10-22- Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include a part of the west half
16    1992   of the northwest quarter of Section 28, Township 16 North, Range 7 East.
             Changes and extends the corporate boundary to include all of the northeast
             quarter of Section 33, Township 16 North, Range 7 East; also, a part of the
1993- 5-13-  northeast quarter of Section 33, Township 16 North, Range 7 East; also, 8.875
4     1993   acres off the entire south side of the northwest quarter of the northeast
             quarter of Section 33, Township 16 North, Range 7 East; also, lots numbered 330
             – 334 and 347 – 351 in Chandler’s Addition and 5.634 acres in the northeast
             quarter of Section 33, Township 16 North, Range 7 East.
             Changes and extends the corporate boundary to include a part of the southwest
1993- 10-28- quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 28, Township 16 North, Range 7
10    1993   East; also, a part of the northeast quarter of Section 8, Township 15 North,
             Range 7 East.
             Annexing part of the following territories:
             (1) The northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 34, Township 16
             North, Range 7 East;
1994- 4-28-  (2) The southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 34, Township 16
2     1994   North, Range 7 East;
             (3) Commencing at the northwest corner of the northwest quarter of the
             southwest quarter of Section 34, Township 16 North, of Range 7 East; and
             (4) County Road 100N (East McKenzie) eastwardly from its intersection with Blue
             Road to the northeast corner of the above described real estate.
             Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include a part of the north
             half of Section 8, Township 15 north, Range 7 east containing 84.222 acres,
             more or less; also, a part of the southwest quarter of Section 8, Township 15
             north, range 7 east in the county containing 82.333 acres, more or less; also,
1995- 10-26- the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 8, Township 15 north, Range 7
12    1995   east, containing 80 acres, more or less; also, the southeast quarter of the
             southeast quarter of Section 8, Township 15 north, range 7 east, containing 40
             acres, more or less; also all of County Road 200S westward from its
             intersection with State Road #9 to the southwest corner of the above described
             real estate, a distance of 3,970 feet, more or less.
Res.  10-26- Annexing certain property known as Huben Addition (280 acres adjacent to Bowman
1995- 1995   Acres).
13
Ord.  5-22-  Annexing a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 15 North, Range
1997- 1997   7 East in Center Township (141 acres).
7
Ord.  10-24- Annexing property, beginning at the Southwest corner of Section 19, Township 16
1997- 1997   North, Range 7 East (160 acres).
18
             Changes and extends the corporate boundaries to include the following:
             The west half of the northwest quarter of Section 27, Township 16 North, Range
             7 East, containing 81.72 acres, more or less.
             Also, the north half of the southwest quarter of Section 27, Township 16 North,
             Range 7 East, containing 80 acres, more or less.
             Also, a part of the south one-half of the southwest quarter of Section 27,
             Township 16 North, Range 7 East, described as follows: BEGINNING at a point on
             the east line of the south one-half of the southwest quarter section 300 feet
             north of the southeast corner thereof; thence north on said east line 1,019
Ord.         feet of the northeast corner of the south one-half of the southwest quarter;
2000- 4-27-  thence west on the north line thereof 2,676.3 feet to the northwest corner of
1     2000   said south one-half; thence south on the west line thereof 1,324.2 feet to the
             southwest corner of the south one-half of the southwest quarter section; thence
             east on the south line thereof 2,078 feet; thence north parallel with the east
             line of the south one-half of the southwest quarter section 300 feet; thence
             east 599 feet to the place of beginning, containing 77.08 acres, more or less.
             And containing in all of the above descriptions 238.8 acres, more or less.
             Also, all of Blue Road between McKenzie Road and County Road 200 North; all of
             County Road 200 North from its intersection with Blue Road easterly a distance
             of 1,341.2 feet; and all of McKenzie Road from its intersection with Blue Road
             easterly a distance of 2,078 feet.
             The above described real estate shall be assigned to Council District 1.
             Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
             estate in the county as described in Exhibits A and B to Ord. 2001-16,
             containing 340 acres, more or less.
2001- 10-11- Also all of Steele Ford Road from its intersection with State Road # 9,
16    2001   easterly a distance of 2,369 feet, more or less.
             Also all of State Road # 9 southwardly from its intersection with Steele Ford
             Road to the Southwest Quarter of the north half of the northwest quarter of
             Section 16 North, Range 7 East, a distance of 2,908 feet, more or less.
2002- 2-14-  Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
1     2002   estate in the county as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2002-1, containing 103.2
             acres, more or less.
             Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
             estate in the county as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2002-8, containing 221
2002- 3-28-  acres, more or less.
8     2002   Also all of Meridian Road from its intersection with County Road 100 North,
             southwardly a distance of 2,624 feet, more or less.
             Also all of County Road 100 North, easterly from its intersection with Meridian
             Road a distance of 3,650 feet, more or less.
2002- 3-28-  Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
11    2002   estate in the county as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2002-11, containing
             44.36 acres, more or less.
2002- 3-28-  Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
13    2002   estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2002-13, containing 107
             acres, more or less.
2002- 8-22-  Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
24    2002   estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2002-24, containing
             165.25 acres, more or less.
2003- 6-26-  Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
4     2003   estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2003-4, containing
             252.194 acres, more or less.
2003- 10-23- Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
14    2003   estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2003-14, containing
             2.212 acres, more or less.
2004- 2-12-  Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
1     2004   estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-1, containing 17
             acres, more or less.
2004- 3-11-  Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
3     2004   estate in the county described as part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 29,
             Township 16 North, Range 7 East containing 6.68 acres, more or less.
             Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
             estate in the county, described as a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
             29, Township 16 North, Range 7 East, containing 11.29 acres, more or less.
2004- 4-8-   Excepting a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 29, Township 16 North,
10    2004   Range 7 East, in the county, containing 6.68 acres, more or less. Also, all of
             Fortville Pike from its intersection with McKenzie Road North to the Northwest
             corner of the above described real estate a distance of 911.00 feet, more or
             less.
             Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
2004- 5-27-  estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-14, containing
14    2004   23.252 acres, 3.0 acres, 58 acres, more or less and excepting three tracts of
             land.
             Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
             estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-17, containing
2004- 6-24-  60.720 acres, more or less. Also, all of Fortville Pike from the Southeast
17    2004   corner of the above described real estate northwardly to the centerline of
             County Road 300 North and all of County Road 300 North from the centerline of
             Fortville Pike westwardly to the Northwest corner of the above described real
             estate, a distance of 1390 feet, more or less.
2004- 7-8-   Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
11    2004   estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-11, containing
             265.756 acres, more or less.
2004- 11-18- Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
31    2004   estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-31, containing
             28.99 acres, more or less.
2004- 11-18- Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
33    2004   estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-33, containing
             187.890 acres, more or less.
2005- 2-10-  Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
2     2005   estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2005-2, containing
             109.858 acres, more or less.
2005- 6-23-  Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
4     2005   estate in the county, as described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2005-4, containing
             163.932 acres, more or less.
2005- 12-15- Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
16    2005   estate in the county, as described in Ord. 2005- 16, containing 37.379 acres,
             more or less.
2007- 6-28-  Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include real
1     2007   estate in the county, as described in Ord. 2007-1, containing 23.64 acres, more
             or less.
2007- 7-26-  Changing and extending the corporate boundaries of the city to include real
7     2007   estate in the county, as described in Ord. 2007-7, containing 3.88 acres, more
             or less.
2008- 5-28-  Annex a part of the north half of Section 19, Township 16 North, Range 7 East,
11    2008   and a part of the north half of Section 20, Township 16 North, range 7 East.
2008- 8-13-  Annexes a part of the northwest quarter of Section 30, Township 16 North, Range
18    2008   7 East in Center Township.
2010- 4-14-  Annexing a middle division of Out Lot No. 3 in Wood, Pratt, and Baldwin’s 2nd
6     2010   Addition of Out Lots to the city.
2011- 2-23-  Annexing approximately 100 acres of land to the city following receipt of a
2     2011   voluntary petition placing the same within the corporate boundaries of the
             city.
             Annexing 65 acres of land, a part of the north half of Section 3, Township 15
2013- 9-25-  North, Range 7 East, and a part of the south half of Section 34, Township 16
8     2013   North, Range 7 East in Center Township; plus the adjacent right-of-way for U.S.
             40 (East Main Street), and a portion of the right-of-way for County Road 400
             East lying within the above described parcel.
2014- 8-27-  Extending the corporate boundary of the city to include the east 1/2 of the
10    2014   east 1/2 of the northeast 1/4 of Section 24, and a part of the southeast 1/4 of
             Section 24, all in Township 16 North, Range 6 East in Center Township.
2014- 12-10- Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include part of
13    2014   Section 6, Township 15 North, Range 7 East in the county.
2015- 9-23-  Extending the corporate boundary of the city to include a part of the south
5     2015   half of Section 33, Township 16 North, Range 7 East and a part of the north
             half of Section 4, Township 15 North, Range 7 East in Center Township.
2015- 10-14- Extending the corporate boundary of the city to include Lot 22, Brunson
10    2015   Village, Section 4, commonly known as 1028 W. McKenzie Road, being 0.634 acres,
             more or less.
2022- 3-9-   Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include
6     2022   approximately 98.59 acres of real estate in Hancock County.
2022- 4-13-  Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include a part of
7     2022   the east 1/2 of the east 1/2 of the Northeast Quarter of Section 35 and the
             west 1/2 of the Northwest Quarter of Section 36.
2022- 5-25-  Amending Ord. 2022-07 and updating the legal description of real property.
18    2022
             Changing and extending the corporate boundary of the city to include Parcel
2023- 10-11- Nos. 30-10-200-003.000-008, 30-10-01-200-004.000-008, 30–10-01-200-006.000-008,
27    2023   30-10-01-200-005.000-008, 30-10-01-200-002.000-008, 30-10-02-100-015.000-008,
             and 30-10-01-200-003.001-008.
            
 
TABLE II: REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date   Description
          Passed
                 Authorizes purchase of part of the east half of the northwest quarter of
1978-19   11-30- Section 32, T16N, R7E known as Block A Section D in the Layne Crest Addition.
          1978   Authorizes sale of a parcel of land located east of a point 35 feet east of
                 the present City Street Department Barn.
Res.      9-23-  Accepting title to real estate in Souder’s Subdivision.
1993-11   1993
Res.      11-16- Approving the sale of part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 36, Township 16
2016-13   2016   North, Range 6 East to the State Municipal Power Agency.
Res.      5-10-  Authorizes purchase of real estate located at 219 South Pennsylvania Street.
2017-6    2017
Res.      8-23-  Authorizes purchase of real estate located at 1002 West Main Street.
2017-7    2017
                 Authorizes purchase of real estate, permanent easement, and temporary easement
Res.      11-29- located in Section 20, Township 16 North, Range 7 East and being a part of
2017-13   2017   Progress Park Phase III, and pay for said property from the TIF Construction
                 account funds.
Res.      3-13-  Purchasing real estate in the southwest quarter of Section 06, Township 15 N.,
2019-3    2019   Range 07 E. in Center Township.
Res.      5-8-   Transferring the 2006 Monico Trailer, VIN: 1KB13IL256E159385 in exchange for
2019-6    2019   $500.
Res.      8-14-  Authorizing the purchase of real estate located at the southwest quarter of
2019-7    2019   Section 06, Township 15 N., Range E. in Center Township.
Res.      2-11-  Entering into a Master Lease Purchase Agreement for the lease and ultimate
2020-B02/ 2020   purchase of certain equipment for the city’s Fire Territory between Republic
11/2020          First National Corporation.
Res.      11-25- Accepting a donation of land being 329 Apple Street.
2020-11   2020
                 Authorization of transfer of property described as Parcel Nos. 30-07- 32-403-
Res.      5-25-  036.001-009, 30-07-32-401-008.004-009, 30-07-32-401-008.000-009, 30-07-32-403-
2022-12   2022   003.002-009, 30-07-32-401-025.001-009, 30-07-32-401-026.001-009, and 30-07-31-
                 309-198.001-009.
Res.      11-22- Transferring the 2000 KME 102 foot rear mount ladder truck, VIN:
2022-     2022   1K9AF6486IN052875, for $75,000.
BOW112222
Res.      1-11-  Authorizing the purchase of real estate under Parcel Nos. 30-10-01- 200-
2023-01   2023   003.000-008 and 30-10-01-200-004.000-008
Res.      4-12-  Amending Resolution 2023-01 regarding the purchase of certain real estate
2023-04   2023   located in Greenfield.
Res.      8-9-   Accepting a donation of land being a part of Lot 2 of Fruth Farms Subdivision.
2023-11   2023
                 Authorizing the purchase of real estate being the following parcels:
Res.      12-13-    Parcel 1 (30-07-18-300-052.000-008)
2023-24   2023      Parcel 2 (30-07-18-300-050.000-008)
                    Parcel 3 (30-07-19-200-004.000-008).
Res.      7-10-  Authorizing the purchase of real estate located at 623 S. State Street.
2024-09   2024
                
 
TABLE III: STREETS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1968- 8-7-   Changes the name of South East Street to American Legion Place.
16    1968
             Deletes the proposed residential street intended to cross Brandywine Creek to
             connect the west end of Paul’s Drive with the proposed east-west Secondary
1977- 6-23-  Arterial Thoroughfare intended to be located near the center line of Sections
8     1977   27, 28, and 29, and replaces it with another proposed residential street
             intended to connect the north end of Sherwood Drive with the abovementioned
             Secondary Arterial Thoroughfare.
             Vacates all of that part of a public alley between Main Street and South Street
1986- 4-10-  located west of Lots 73 and 86 in Block 6 of the original plat to the city and
2     1986   east of Lots 11 and 12 in Block 11 in Meek’s Reserve in the original plat of
             the city.
1993- 4-22-  Vacating a sanitary sewer easement across Cedar Knoll.
1     1993
1994- 4-28-  Vacating a public way in Weston Village.
5     1994
             (1) Vacating a public way being a part of W.P. Wilson’s Addition; and also a
1995- 2-9-   part of Rebecca J. Enright’s addition.
3     1995   (2) Also, vacating a public way being a part of W.P. Wilson’s Addition; and
             also a part of Arthur P. Williams Addition.
2010- 3-24-  Closing to public traffic, but not vacating, the alleyway extending from Main
5     2010   Street to North Street between State Street and Pennsylvania Street.
2010- 12-8-  Closing to public traffic, but not vacating, the alleyway extending halfway
17    2010   from Main Street to South Street between State Street, and Pennsylvania Street.
2011- 5-25-  Vacating an alley located between the east property lines of Lots 1 and 2 and
10    2011   the west property line of Lot 3, all in Block 6, Pierson’s Addition to the
             city.
2015- 8-12-  Vacating a right-of-way located in Section 31, Township 16 North, Range 7 East.
7     2015
2017- 4-26-  Vacating all of that east to west platted alley between Noble Street and School
6     2017   Street and located between 6th Street and 7th Street.
2019- 6-26-  Vacating certain easements as identified by Ord. 2019-12.
12    2019
2020- 10-28- Vacating a storm sewer easement at Hidden Glen Drive.
34    2020
2024- 11-13- Vacating a public easement in a parcel of real estate in the Southeast Quarter
32    2024   of the Northwest Quarter of Section 20, Township 16 North, Range 7 East of the
             2nd Principal Meridian.
            
 
TABLE IV: SPECIAL CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1965- 11-15- Utility Pension Trust Agreement between the city utilities and the Greenfield
39    1965   Banking Co.
1968- 7-3-   Contract with the Public Service Company of Indiana, Inc. for electric service.
15    1968
1968- 8-7-   Contract with Advisory Board of Center Township, Hancock County, to furnish
17    1968   fire protection to all persons and property located in Center Township.
1975- 10- -  Amends fire protection contract contained in Ord. 1968-17.
19    1975
1980- 5-8-   Contract to create a joint agency with other municipalities for electric power
10    1980   and energy.
Res.  5-26-
1981- 1981   Agreement between the city and the county for emergency ambulance service.
1
1982- 3-18-  Authorizes contract between the city and the State Municipal Power Agency for
2     1982   electric power and energy.
Res.  8-23-  Authorizes State Municipal Power Agency to cancel city’s arrangements with the
1982- 1982   Public Service Commission, and to further IMPA’s financing of Gibson Unit No.
4            5.
1982- 11-11- Amending power sales contract between the city and the State Municipal Power
17    1982   Agency.
Res.  3-22-
1984- 1984   Continuing the city’s membership in the Interlocal Association.
2
             Grants a franchise to Horizon Tele- Communications, Inc., to construct,
1985- 5-23-  operate, and maintain a cable television system in the city, setting forth
10    1985   conditions accompanying the grant of franchise, and providing for city
             regulation and use of the cable television system.
             Grants a franchise to Central Indiana Communications, Inc., to construct,
1985- 9-12-  operate, and maintain a cable television system in the city, setting forth
23    1985   conditions accompanying the grant of franchise, and providing for city
             regulation and use of the cable television system.
Res.  10-26- Authorizing an agreement with Insight Communications Company, L.P., granting
1995- 1995   nonexclusive right to operate a cable television system within the city for a
15           period of 15 years.
2001- 6-28-  Authorizing the Third Amendatory Agreement to the power sales contract between
15    2001   State Municipal Power Agency and the city.
2007- 7-26-  Authorizing the Fourth Amendatory Agreement to the power sales contract between
9     2007   State Municipal Power Agency and the city.
2008- 3-26-  Agreement for the establishment and administration of a fire protection
8     2008   territory between Center Township and the city for the establishment of an
             Equipment Replacement Fund.
Res.  3-28-  Approving an agreement between the Town of Fortville and the city to
2018- 2018   collaborate and work together toward a regional application for the state’s
2            Stellar program.
Res.  8-22-
2018- 2018   Renewing for a five year period an agreement for joint and cooperative action.
6
2019- 11-13- Authorizing the Fifth Amendatory Agreement to the power sales contract between
22    2019   State Municipal Power Agency and the city.
2020- 9-15-  Terminating personal property tax abatement for Stanley Black & Decker, Inc.
7     2020   for the year of 2020 and payable in 2021 is in the best interest of the prudent
             fiscal management of the city.
Res.  2-8-
2023- 2023   Continuing the city’s membership in the Interlocal Association for five years.
03
            
 
TABLE V: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1977- 1-12-  Part of the north division of the west half of the southeast quarter and a west
27    1978   division of the east half of the southeast quarter, both in Section 29, T16N, R7E to
             “C”, with certain parcels of land included therein excepted.
1979- 2-22-  Part of the northwest quarter of Section 33, T16N, R7E to “GB”.
3     1979   Part of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 33, T16N, R7E to “GB”.
1979- 12-27- Part of the west half of the northwest quarter of Section 21, T16N, R7E to I-3,
28    1979   Special Industrial District.
1980- 5-22-  Lots 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16 in Pierson’s Third Addition to “C” Residence District.
11    1980
1980- 6-27-  Southwest corner of Osage and Noble Streets to “C” Residence District.
13    1980
1981- 7-23-  Part of the southwest quarter of Section 28, T16N, R7E to UD Unit Development Plan
10    1981   District.
1982- 10-14- Intersection of the first alley west of State and Douglas Streets, then south to
14    1982   Fourth Street, then east to State Street, then south to Grant Street, from B Residence
             District to LB Local-Business District.
1983- 1-12-  Lot Number Block “A” in the Candlelite of Greenfield Addition to “C” Residence
23    1984   District.
1984- 3-22-  Approximately 104.096 acres in Section 29 T16N, R7E to “UD” Unit Development Plan
5     1984   District.
1986- 11-13- Part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter and the northeast quarter of
17    1986   the northwest quarter, both in Section 29, T16N, R7E, from “PB” and “B” to “I-1”.
1987- 2-26-  Part of the southeast quarter and part of the southwest quarter of Section 20, T16N,
2     1987   R7E, from “PB” and “B” to “UD”.
             Part of the east half of the southeast quarter of Section 20, T16N, R7E, and a part of
1987- - -    the west half of the southwest quarter of Section 21, T16N, R7E, from “PB” Planned
15           Business District, “B” Residence District, “B” Residence District, and “FP1” Flood
             Plain District, to the “UD” Development District.
1987- 8-27-  Part of Lot 12 in Snow’s Highway Addition, from “PB” Planned Business District to “I-
16    1987   2” Open Industrial District. Part of Lots l, 2, 3, and 4 in Eagleston’s Subdivision,
             from “PB” Planned Business District to “I-2” Open Industrial District.
1988- 4-28-  Part of the southwest quarter of Section 28, T16N, R6E, to “AA” Residence District.
7     1988
             Part of northwest division of Lot 10 in Block 6 in Pierson’s First Addition; also,
1988- 7-14-  part of Lots 9 and 10 in Block 6 in Pierson’s First Addition; also, property
11    1988   commencing 92 feet west of the northeast corner of Lot 9 in Block 6 in Pierson’s First
             Addition from “PB” to “GB”.
1988- 8-11-  Part of Section 29, Township 16 North, Range 7 East, and part of southwest corner of
16    1988   northwest quarter of Section 29, Township 16 North, Range 7 East to “PB” and to “C”
             respectively.
1989- 1-26-  Part of the southwest quarter of Section 31, Township 16 North, Range 7 East from “PB”
1     1989   to “C”.
1990- 2-8-   The most eastern 117 feet of Lot No. 2 of Block 1; Lot No. 1 of Block 6; Lot No. 2 of
1     1989   Block 7 from “LB” Local Business District to “B” Residence District.
1990- 2-8-   Adopting a redrawn zoning map for the city.
2     1990
1990- 7-27-  Part of Section 32, Township 16 north, Range 7 East from “A” Residential to “C”
12    1990   Residential.
             (1) Lots 57 and 58 of the Exchange Addition, located at the southwest corner of the
             intersection of Harrison Street and W. North Street, from “C” Residence District to
             “LB” Local Business District.
1990- 7-27-  (2) A tract located in the southeast corner of the intersection of W. New Road and
13    1990   Fields Blvd. from “PB” Planned Business District to “I-1” Enclosed Industrial
             District.
             (3) A tract located at the north end of Baldwin Street and west of Brandywine Creek
             from “B” Residence District to “C” Residence District.
1991- 6-14-  A part of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 5, Township 15
5     1991   North, Range 7 East from “I-2” Open Industrial to “C” Residential.
             A part of the northeast quarter of Section 29 and a part of the northwest quarter of
1991- 7-26-  Section 28, all in Township 16 North, Range 7 East, in Center Township, from “PB”
6     1991   Planned Business District and “B” Residence District to “UD” Unit Development
             District.
1991- 7-26-  A part of the southeast quarter of Section 29, Township 16 North, Range 7 East, in
8     1991   Center Township, from “C” Residence District to “PB” Planned Business District.
1991- 9-12-  A north division of Lots 38 and 39 in Wilson’s Addition, from “C” Residence District
11    1991   to “LB” Business District.
1991- 9-12-  Certain territory from “B” Residence District to “C” Residence District.
12    1991
1991- 9-26-  The northwest division of Lot 73 in Burnett’s Second Addition, from “A” Residence
13    1991   District to “C” Residence District.
1992- 6-25-  Certain territory from “PB” Planned Business District to “C” Residence District, and
7     1992   certain territory from “B” Residence District to “C” Residence District.
1992- 10-22- Certain territory from “B” Residential District to “UD” Residential District.
15    1992
1993- 5-13-  Certain territory from “I-2” Open Industrial District to “UD” Unit Development Plan
2     1993   District.
1993- 5-13-  Certain territory from “B” Residence District to “UD” Unit Development Plan District.
3     1993
1993- 8-12-  Certain territory from “PB” Plan Business District to “C” Residence District.
6     1993
1993- 1-13-  Certain territory from “B” Residential District to “C” Residential District.
15    1994
1994- 4-28-  Part of the east half of Section 1, Township 15 North, Range 6 East from PB to UD.
6     1994
1994- 7-14-  Part of Section 29, Township 16 North, Range 7 East from “PB” Planned Business to “C”
9     1994   Residential.
1994- 11-10- Part of McCully’s subdivision from “I-2” Open Industrial to “B” Residence.
15    1994
1995- 12-28- Rezoning certain property being the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter, all in
14    1995   Section 34, Township 16 north, Range 7 east in Center Township from “I- 1” Enclosed
             Industrial to “UD” Unit Development.
1995- 12-28- Rezoning certain parcels of land being a part of the southwest quarter of the
15    1995   northwest quarter of Section 34, Township 16, Range 7 east from “I” Enclosed
             Industrial District to “B” Residence District.
1995- 12-28- Rezoning certain property being a part of the southeast quarter of Section 28,
17    1995   Township 16 north, Range 7 east in Center Township from “B” Residential District to
             “UD” Unit Development District.
             Rezoning certain property being Tract 1, a part of the northeast quarter of the
             northwest quarter of Section 29, Township 16 north, Range 7 east in the county; Tract
1996- 3-28-  2, a part of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 29, Township 16
3     1996   north, Range 7 east in the county; and a part of the northeast quarter of the
             northwest quarter of Section 29, Township 16 north, Range 7 east in the county; also a
             part of the north east quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 29, Township 16
             north, Range 7 east from “B” Residence District to “I-1” Enclosed Industrial District.
1997- 12-11- Rezoning a certain parcel of land being a part of the southwest quarter of Section 19,
19    1997   Township 16 North, Range 7 East from “S” Suburban Residence District to “I-1” Enclosed
             Industrial District.
1998- 8-13-  Rezoning a part of the southwest quarter of Section 34, Township 16 North, Range 7
16    1998   East in Center Township from “I-1” Enclosed Industrial District to the “B” Residential
             District.
             (1) Rezoning Lots 107, 108, 109, and 110 in Chandler’s Addition from “GB” General
             Business District” to “B” Residential District.
             (2) Rezoning parts of Lots 147, 148, 149, 150, 151, 152, 153 in Chandler’s Addition
             from “LB” Local Business District to “B” Residential District.
             (3) Rezoning 50 feet of uniform width off the entire north end of Lots 74 and 75 in
             Chandler’s Addition from “C” Residential District to “B” Residential District.
             (4) Rezoning Lot 49 in Chandler’s Addition from “C” Residential District to “B”
             Residential District.
             (5) Rezoning Lots 21, 22, and 23 in Chandler’s Addition from “GB” General Business to
             “B” Residential District.
             (6) Rezoning parts of Lot 1, Lot 2, Lot 7, and Lot 8 in Wood, Pratt and Baldwin’s
             Second Addition from “LB” Local Business District to “B” Residential District.
             (7) Rezoning parts of Out Lot 4, Lot 7, Lot 8, Lot 9, Lot 10, Lot 11 in Wood, Pratt,
             and Baldwin’s Second Addition and Park View Addition from “LB” Local Business District
             to “B” Residential District.
             (8) Rezoning parts of Lot “A” and Lot 2 in Board of Trade Addition from “C”
             Residential District to “LB” Local Business District.
             (9) Rezoning parts of Lot 1, Lot 3, Lot 5, Lot 6, Lot 7 in Souder’s Second Subdivision
             from “PB” Planned Business District to “A” Residential District.
             (10) Rezoning Lot 1 in Ivy Knoll from “PB” Planned Business District to “AA”
             Residential District.
             (11) Rezoning Block “A” in Candlelite of Greenfield, Section Two from “C” Residential
             District to “B” Residential District.
             (12) Rezoning parts of Lot 1, Lot 2, Lot 3, Lot 4, Lot 5, Lot 6, Lot 7, Lot 8, Lot 9,
             Lot 10, Lot 11, Lot 12, Lot 13, Lot 14, Lot 15, Lot 16, Lot 17, Lot 18, Lot 19, Lot
             20, Lot 21, Lot 22, Lot 23, Lot 24, Lot 25, Lot 26, Lot 27, Lot 28, Lot 29, Lot 30,
1999- 12-23- Lot 31, and Lot 32 in Whitcomb Commons from “PB” Planned Business District to “AA”
19    1999   Residential District.
             (13) Rezoning Lot 30, 31, and 32 in Boyd’s Highland Home Addition and part of Lot 6 in
             Hanna’s Addition from “LB” Local Business District to “PB” Planned Business District.
             (14) Rezoning Lot 7 and Lot 8 in Boyd’s Highland Home Addition from “LB” Local
             Business to “PB” Planned Business District.
             (15) Rezoning a Northwest Division of Lot 2 in Block Number 7 in Bradley’s Addition
             from “LB” Local Business to “PB” Planned Business District.
             (16) Rezoning parts of Lot 19, Lot 20, Lot 21, Lot 22, Lot 23, Lot 24, Lot 25, Lot 26,
             Lot 27, Lot 28 in William P. Wilson’s Addition from “C” Residential District to “B”
             Residential District.
             (17) Rezoning parts of Lot 1 and Lot 2 in McCully’s Subdivision of O’Donnell’s
             Addition from “I-2” Open Industrial District to “B” Residential District.
             (18) Rezoning parts of Lot 12, Lot 13, Lot 14, Lot 15, and Lot 16 in Snow’s Highway
             Addition and Stuart’s Addition from “LB” Local Business District and “I- 2” Open
             Industrial District to “PB” Planned Business District.
             (19) Rezoning Lot 26 and Lot 27 in Exchange Addition from “LB” Local Business District
             to “C” Residential District.
             (20) Rezoning parts of Lot 2 in Block Number 1 in Bradley’s Addition from “B”
             Residential District to “LB” Local Business District.
             (21) Rezoning part of Lot 3 in Block Number 5 in Wood, Pratt, and Baldwin’s Second
             Addition, commonly known as 204 N. Baldwin, from “C” Residential District to “B”
             Residential District.
             (22) Rezoning parts of Lot 18, Lot 19, Lot 20 in Chandler’s Addition from “GB” General
             Business District to “LB” Local Business District.
             (23) Rezoning parts of Block 3, Lot 5, Lot 6, and Lot 7 in Stuart’s First Addition
             from “PB” Planned Business District to “C” Residential District.
             (24) Rezoning part of Lot “A” in the Board of Trade Addition from “C” Residential
             District to “I-2” Open Industrial District.
2001- 2-8-   Rezoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 15 North, Range 7
4     2001   East, Center Township, Hancock County from “I-2” Open Industrial District to “B”
             Residence District.
2001- 4-26-  Reclassifying certain property described in Exhibit A, as “TN” Traditional
9     2001   Neighborhood District.
2001- 5-24-  Reclassifying the west half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 29, Township 16 North,
12    2001   Range 7 East as “B” Residence District.
             Reclassifying Lots numbered 1 and 2 in Block 9 in Randall Place, except the following
2001- 1-10-  described real estate: 100 feet of uniform width off of the east end of Lots 1 and 2
28    2002   in Randall Place, an addition to the city from “A” Residence District to “TN”
             Traditional Neighborhood District.
             Reclassifying a parcel of land lying in the Northwest Quarter of Section 9, Township
2002- 2-14-  15 North, Range 7 East, containing 41.18 acres, more or less, and a parcel lying in
2     2002   the Northeast Quarter of Section 9, Township 15 North, Range 7 East, containing 15.20
             acres, more or less, as “AA” Residential District.
2002- 2-14-  Reclassifying a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 9, Township 15 North, Range 7
4     2002   East in Center Township, containing 46,822 acres, more or less, as “A” Residential
             District.
2002- 3-28-  Reclassifying a part of the Northwest Quarter and the Northwest Quarter of the
9     2002   Northeast Quarter, all in fractional Section 31, Township 16 North, Range 7 East in
             Center Township, containing 180.904 acres, more or less, as “B” Residential District.
2002- 3-28-  Reclassifying a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 28, Township 16 North, Range
10    2002   7 East, containing 44.36 acres, more or less, as “A” Residential District.
2002- 3-28-  Reclassifying a part of Section 34, Township 16 North, Range 7 East in Center
12    2002   Township, containing 82.61 acres, more or less, as “B” Residential District.
2002- 3-28-  Reclassifying a part of the Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 31,
14    2002   Township 16 North, Range 7 East, containing 40 acres, more or less, as “B” Residential
             District.
2002- 8-22-  Reclassifying the property described in the Exhibit to Ord. 2002-25 as “PUD” Planned
25    2002   Unit Development District.
             (1) Reclassifying a part of Sections 1 and 2 in Township 15 North, Range 6 East, and a
             part of Sections 35 and 36 in Township 16 North, Range 6 East, all in Center Township,
             containing 252.194 acres, more or less, to the “PUD” Planned Unit Development
             District.
2003- 6-26-  (2) Reclassifying parts of CR 75 West (Windswept Road) from its intersection with U.S.
5     2003   40 to the north line of the above 252.194-acre tract to “PUD” Planned Unit Development
             District.
             (3) Reclassifying four parcels in the Southeast and Southwest Quarters of Section 36,
             Township 16 North, Range 6 East, totaling 25.459 acres, more or less, to “AA”
             Residential District.
2003- 10-23- Reclassifying a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 28, Township 16 North, Range
15    2003   7 East, containing 1.638 acres, more or less, to the “A” Residential District.
2003- 12-11- Reclassifying six parcels of real estate in Sections 9 and 16, Township 15 North,
17    2003   Range 7 East, totaling 267.05 acres, more or less, to the “PUD” Planned Unit
             Development District.
2004- 2-12-  Reclassifying the property described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-2 as “PUD” Planned Unit
2     2004   Development District.
2004- 3-11-  Reclassifying the property described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-4 to the “A”
4     2004   Residential District.
2004- 4-8-   Reclassifying the property described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-9 to the “A”
9     2004   Residential District.
2004- 7-8-   Reclassifying the property described in Exhibits A, B, C, and D to Ord. 2004-12,
12    2004   respectively, to the “A” Residential District, “B” Residential District, “PB” Planned
             Business District, and “I-1” Industrial District.
2004- 5-27-  Reclassifying the property described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-15 to the “B”
15    2004   Residential District.
2004- 6-10-  Reclassifying the property described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-19 from “A” Residential
19    2004   District to the “B” Residential District.
2004- 6-24-  Reclassifying the property described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-18 as “PUD” Planned
18    2004   Unit Development District.
2004- 11-18- Reclassifying the property described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2004-32 to the “PUD” Planned
32    2004   Residential District.
2005- 2-10-  Reclassifying the property described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2005-3 to the “PUD” Planned
3     2005   Unit Development District.
2005- 6-23-  Reclassifying the property described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2005-8 to the “A”
8     2005   Residential District.
2005- 7-28-  Reclassifying the property described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2005-10 to the “LB” Local
10    2005   Business District.
2005- 12-15- Reclassifying the property described in Exhibit A to Ord. 2005-19 to the “PUD” Planned
19    2005   Unit Development District.
2005- 12-15- Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2005-20 to the “I-1” Enclosed Industrial
20    2005   District.
2007- 6-28-  Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2007-2 to the “PB” Planned Business
2     2007   District.
2007- 7-26-  Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2007-8 to the “I-2” Open Industrial
8     2007   District.
2007- 9-13-  Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2007-13 to the “A” Residence District.
13    2007
2007- 10-11- Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2007-17 to the “PB” Planned Business
17    2007   District.
2008- 1-23-  Classifying the property described in Ord. 2008-2 to the “PB” Planned Business
2     2008   District.
2008- 5-14-  Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2008-13 to the “PB” Planned Business
13    2008   District.
2008- 8-27-  Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2008-22 to the “BP” Business Park
22    2008   District.
2008- 9-10-  Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2008-23 to the “PUD” Planned Unit
23    2008   Development District.
2009- 1-28-  Classifying the property described in Ord. 2009-3 to the “BP” Business Park District.
3     2009
2009- 5-13-  Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2009-8 to the “PUD” Planned Unit
8     2009   Development District.
2011- 9-14-  Amending the preliminary unit development plan of the Greenfield Business Park.
15    2011
2012- 10-10- Classifying the property at 210 Center St. to the “GB” General Business District.
10    2012
             Classifying property described in Exhibit A (including the “Duffy” property and all
2013- 11-13- property lying south of the north right-of-way line of Pennsy Trail, containing 45
12    2013   acres) as AA Residence District, and property described in Exhibit B (property lying
             north of the north right-of-way line of Pennsy Trail, excepting the “Duffy” property,
             containing 20 acres) as PB Planned Business District.
             Classifying property described in Exhibit A as the east 1/2 of the east 1/2 of the
2014- 8-27-  northeast 1/4 Section 24, and a part of the southeast 1/4 of Section 24, all in
11    2014   Township 16 North, Range 6 East in Center Township as “PUD” Planned Unit Development
             District.
2016- 5-11-  Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2016-7 as “BP” Business Park District.
7     2016
2016- 10-26- Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2016-18 as “PUD” Planned Unit Development
18    2016   District.
2019- 3-13-  Reclassifying two parcels of property as described in Ord. 2019-6.
6     2019
2020- 2-12-  Reclassifying the property described in Ord. 2020-04, more commonly known as Williams
04    2020   Run, North Blue Road, as “B” Residential.
2020- 11-12- Reclassifying property as described in Ord. 2020-30 to the PUD Planned Unit
30    2020   Development District.
2023- 1-25-  Reclassifying property as described in Ord. 2023-01 to “PK” Park District.
01    2023
2023- 1-25-  Reclassifying property as described in Ord. 2023-02 to “IM” Innovation and
02    2023   Manufacturing District.
2023- 10-11- Reclassifying property as described in Ord. 2023-28 to the “PUD” Planned Unit
28    2023   Development District.
            
 
TABLE VI: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.                 Date Passed Description
                                     Part of the southeast quarter of Section
Res. 1985-5              6-13-1985   20, Township 16 north, Range 7 east; and
                                     authorizing a tax abatement.
                                     Part of the southeast quarter of Section
Res. 1985-6              6-27-1985   20, Township 16 north, Range 7 east; and
                                     authorizing a tax abatement deduction for
                                     Perlman - Rocque Associates.
                                     Part of the northwest quarter of the
                                     northeast quarter of Section 29, Township
Res. 1988-4              4-28-1988   16 north, Range 7 east; and authorizing a
                                     tax abatement deduction for either Hanger
                                     Bolt and Stud Co. or Enterkin Leasing Co.
                                     Part of the southeast quarter and part of
Res. 1988-7              5-12-1988   the southwest quarter of Section 20, T16N,
                                     R7E.
                                     Part of the southeast quarter and a part
Res. 2015-7              8-26-2015   of the southwest quarter of Section 20,
                                     Township 16 North, Range 7 East.
                                     Part of the northwest quarter of Section
                                     36, Township 16 North, Range 6 East and
Res. 2017-1              2-22-2017   part of the northeast quarter of the
                                     northwest quarter of Section 36, Township
                                     16 North, Range 6 East.
                                     Part of the northwest quarter of Section
                                     36, Township 16 North, Range 6 East and
Res. 2017-2              3-22-2017   part of the northeast quarter of the
                                     northwest quarter of Section 36, Township
                                     16 North, Range 6 East.
                                     A preliminary declaratory resolution
Res. 2017-4              4-12-2017   designating an economic revitalization
                                     area, and approving an application from
                                     BWI for deductions for a ten year period.
                                     Confirming that the qualifications for an
Res. 2017-5              4-26-2017   economic revitalization area have been
                                     met.
                                     A preliminary declaratory resolution
Res. 2017-11             10-25-2017  designating an economic revitalization
                                     area.
                                     Approving amendments to the declaratory
Res. 2017-15             12-13-2017  resolution and economic development plan
                                     for the economic development area and
                                     matters related thereto.
                                     Designating an economic revitalization
Res. 2018-4              7-25-2018   area and approving a statement of
                                     benefits, 2001 Royal Drive.
                                     Confirming that the qualifications for an
Res. 2018-5              8-22-2018   economic revitalization area have been
                                     met, 2001 Royal Drive.
                                     Preliminary declaratory resolution
Res. 2018-13             11-28-2018  designating an economic revitalization
                                     area and approving tax abatement, 420 West
                                     Osage Street.
                                     Confirming that the qualifications for an
Res. 2018-15             12-12-2018  economic revitalization area have been
                                     met, 420 West Osage Street.
                                     Establishing tax abatements for property
                                     improvements in property previously
Res. 2019-4              3-27-2019   established as an Economic Revitalization
                                     Area, and owned by Yamaha Motor
                                     Corporation U.S.A.
                                     Confirming that the qualifications for an
Res. 2019-5              4-10-2019   economic revitalization area have been met
                                     by property owned by Yamaha Motor
                                     Corporation U.S.A.
                                     Purchase of the real estate located at the
Res. 2019-9              11-13-2019  southwest quarter of Section 06, Township
                                     15 N., Range 07 E. in Center Township.
                                     Confirming Resolution No. 2019-
Res. 2019-11             12-11-2019  9 determining the qualifications for an
                                     economic revitalization area have been
                                     met.
                                     A declaratory resolution designating the
Res. 2020-RDC-04-20-2020 4-20-2020   Riverfront economic development area, and
                                     approving an economic development plan.
                                     Approving the declaratory resolution and
2020-PC-05112020         5-11-2020   plan for the Riverfront economic
                                     development area.
                                     Approving certain matters in connection
                                     with the establishment of the Riverfront
Res. 2020-3              5-27-2020   economic development area and an
                                     allocation area and the approval of an
                                     economic development plan for said area.
                                     Preliminary declaratory resolution
Res. 2020-4              8-26-2020   confirming real estate designated as an
                                     economic revitalization area and approving
                                     tax abatement.
2020-5                   9-15-2020   Confirming qualifications for an economic
                                     revitalization area.
                                     Declaratory resolution determining that
Res. 2023-05             4-12-2023   the qualifications for an economic
                                     revitalization area have been met (Yamaha
                                     property).
                                     Resolution confirming Resolution No. 2023-
Res. 2023-06             4-26-2023   05 determining that the qualifications for
                                     an economic revitalization area have been
                                     met.
                                     Declaratory resolution determining that
Res. 2023-14             9-13-2023   the qualifications for an economic
                                     revitalization area have been met (Shear
                                     property).
                                     Declaratory resolution determining that
Res. 2023-15             9-13-2023   the qualifications for an economic
                                     revitalization area have been met (Project
                                     Huskies).
                                     Amended and restated resolution confirming
Res. 2023-16             9-27-2023   Resolution No. 2023- 14 determining that
                                     the qualifications for an economic
                                     revitalization area have been met.
                                     Confirming Resolution No. 2023- 15
Res. 2023-17             10-25-2023  determining that the qualifications for an
                                     economic revitalization are have been met.
                                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                     Code Section
1-1-1-8                        10.07
1-1-4-1                        10.05,
                               10.06
1-1-7-1                        72.99
3-8-1-26                       30.03
3-8-1-27                       30.03
3-8-1-28                       30.03
3-10-7-34                      30.04
3-12-4                         30.04
3-12-5                         30.04
3-13-8-1                       30.05
3-13-8-10                      30.05
3-13-11                        30.05
3-13-11-11                     30.04
3-13-11-12                     30.04
4-21.5-3                       91.057
4-21.5-3-7                     150.18
4-21.5-5-1                     156.12
4-33-20                        70.02
5-1-14-14                      30.36
5-3-1                          30.09
5-4-1-2                        30.04
5-4-1-3                        30.04
5-4-1-18                       30.04
5-8-6                          30.05
5-11-1-27                      37.01,
                               37.20
5-11-1-27(e)                   37.03
5-11-1-27(g)                   37.05
5-11-1-27(j)                   37.04
5-11-1-27(l)                   37.04
5-13                           30.11
5-13-9-5.7                     30.11
5-22                           31.35
5-22-3-3                       30.09
6-1.1-18.5-9.8                 30.36
6-3-2-2.8                      150.11
6-3-2-3.1                      150.11
6-3-6                          30.37
6-3.5-1.1-11                   30.36
6-3.5-5-15                     30.32
6-3.6-10                       30.36
                               50.013,
8-1-2-19                       51.083,
                               52.032
8-1.5-1-1 et seq.              51.002,
                               52.008
8-1.5-3-8                      51.265
8-1.5-3-8.1(d)                 52.022
8-1.5-5                        54.002,
                               54.100
8-1.5-6 et seq.                51.002,
                               52.008
9-13-2-6                       70.02
9-13-2-14                      70.02
9-13-2-16                      70.02
9-13-2-17                      70.02
9-13-2-18                      70.02
9-13-2-33                      70.02
9-13-2-40                      70.02
9-13-2-47                      70.02
9-13-2-49.3                    70.02
9-13-2-52                      70.02
9-13-2-56                      70.02
9-13-2-65                      70.02
9-13-2-71                      70.02
9-13-2-84                      70.02
9-13-2-94                      70.02
9-13-2-102                     70.02
9-13-2-127                     70.02
9-13-2-133                     70.02
9-13-2-137                     70.02
9-13-2-147                     70.02
9-13-2-153                     70.02
9-13-2-155                     70.02
9-13-2-156                     70.02
9-13-2-157                     70.02
9-13-2-159                     70.02
9-13-2-161                     70.02
9-13-2-164                     70.02
9-13-2-167                     70.02
9-13-2-168                     70.02
9-13-2-175                     70.02
9-13-2-178                     70.02
9-13-2-182                     70.02
9-13-2-184                     70.02
9-13-2-188                     70.02
9-13-2-189                     70.02
9-13-2-193                     70.02
9-13-2-196                     70.02
9-17                           70.02
9-18-2                         70.02
9-18-2.5                       70.02
9-18.1                         70.02
9-18.1-4                       70.02
9-20-13-2                      70.02
9-20-14-0.5                    70.02
9-20-15-0.5                    70.02
9-21                           70.01,
                               70.02
9-21-8-3                       70.02
9-21-8-12 through 9-21-8-13    70.02
9-21-9-2                       71.073
9-21-12-13                     70.01
9-21-13 et seq.                71.026
9-21-20-1                      70.02
9-21-20-2                      70.02
9-21-20-3                      70.02
9-22                           70.02
9-22-1-1                       95.41
9-24-16.5                      71.072
9-25-2-3                       71.070
9-30-5                         70.02
9-30-6                         70.02
9-30-8                         70.02
9-30-9                         70.02
9-31                           70.02
9-32                           70.02
9-32-2-18.6                    70.02
10-11-2-26(a)                  70.02
10-16-7                        36.145
10-19-7-1                      91.008
13-11-2-96 et seq.             35.33
13-11-2-149.5                  54.400
13-11-2-149.6                  54.400
16-18-2-110                    70.02
16-22-8                        70.02
22-8-1.1-1                     36.090
22-9-1-4 et seq.               98.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.               98.01
22-9.5-2-2                     98.02
22-9.5-2-3                     98.02
22-9.5-2-4                     98.02
22-9.5-2-8                     98.02
22-9.5-2-9                     98.02
22-9.5-2-11                    98.02
22-9.5-2-13                    98.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.               98.08
22-9.5-3-4                     98.08
22-9.5-4-8                     98.09
22-9.5-5                       98.02
22-9.5-5-2                     98.08
22-9.5-6                       98.02,
                               98.09
22-11-14                       91.195
22-11-14-6(d)                  91.210
22-11-14-10.5                  91.210
22-11-14-10.5(c)               91.210
22-11-18-3                     91.136
22-11-18-3.5                   91.026,
                               91.136
22-11-18-5                     91.136
22-12-1-3                      157.08
22-12-1-4                      91.008
22-12-1-5                      91.008
22-12-1-18                     91.008
22-12-2                        91.008
22-12-7                        91.003
22-13-2-7                      150.18
22-13-2-7(b)                   150.04
22-13-2-7(c)                   91.063
22-13-2-11                     91.003,
                               91.063
22-14                          91.058
22-15-3-1                      150.08
22-15-4                        150.05
25-25-2-1                      112.04
25-34.1                        98.08
34-7-5-1                       10.12
34-24-1-1                      30.34
34-24-1-5                      30.34
34-24-1-9                      30.34
35-31.5-2-29                   90.01
35-31.5-2-292                  90.01
35-41-2-4                      70.04,
                               70.05
35-41-5-1                      70.04
35-41-5-2                      70.04
35-43-1-2                      70.20
35-44.1-1                      30.06
35-44.1-1-1                    30.06
35-44.1-1-2                    30.06
35-44.1-1-4                    30.06,
                               30.09
35-47-7-3                      91.064
35-50-5-1.1(b)                 30.06
                               10.99,
36-1-3-8                       156.99,
                               158.88
36-1-5-3                       10.01
36-1-8-2                       30.38
36-1-21                        30.09
36-1-21-5                      30.09
36-1-21-5(b)                   30.09
36-1-27-1                      36.057
36-1-27-4                      36.057
36-4-4-3                       31.01
36-4-5                         30.01,
                               31.02
36-4-5-2(b)                    30.03
36-4-5-2(d)                    30.03
36-4-5-4                       30.02
36-4-6                         30.01
36-4-6-2(b)                    30.03
36-4-6-2(c)                    30.03
36-4-6-4                       32.02
36-4-6-7                       32.03
36-4-6-8                       32.04
36-4-6-9                       32.05
36-4-6-10 through 36-4-6-17    32.04
36-4-6-11                      32.10
36-4-6-13                      32.08
36-4-9-5                       31.35
36-4-9-12                      31.20
36-4-10-3(a)                   30.03
36-4-10-3(c)                   30.03
36-4-10-4                      31.03
36-5-2-9.8                     Adopting Ordinance
36-7-4                         153.06
36-7-4-101 through 36-7-4-1213 31.36
36-7-4-200 et seq.             151.01,
                               151.09
36-7-4-207                     31.36
36-7-4-405(b)                  158.02
36-7-4-405(c)                  158.02
36-7-4-511                     153.01
36-7-4-1109(b)                 36.057
36-7-9                         157.01
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28     157.02
36-7-9-2                       157.07
36-7-9-4                       157.06
36-7-9-14                      157.09
36-7-9-28                      157.10
36-7-11-14                     156.12
36-7-12                        31.37
36-7-12-5                      31.37
36-7-12-9                      31.37
36-7-14                        31.19
36-7-14.5-7                    31.19
36-7.5-4-12                    30.36
36-8-2-3                       35.02
36-8-3-6                       34.20
36-8-3-7                       35.11
36-8-3-14                      35.07
36-8-3.5-1.1(c)                31.42
36-8-3.5-5.5                   31.42
36-8-3.5-6(c)                  31.42
36-8-3.5-8                     31.42
36-8-5-8                       36.145
36-8-6                         31.41
36-8-6-9.8                     31.41
36-8-7                         31.33
36-8-8                         31.41
36-8-8-16                      31.41
36-8-17                        91.061
36-8-17-2                      35.01
36-8-17-7                      91.025,
                               91.064
36-8-17-8                      91.026,
                               91.064
36-8-17-9                      91.057,
                               91.058
36-9-2-14                      52.008
36-9-2-16                      51.001,
                               51.002
36-9-2-18                      51.002,
                               52.008
36-9-12-4                      72.19
36-9-23-1 et seq.              51.002,
                               52.008
36-9-23-17                     51.070
36-9-23-18                     51.070
36-9-39                        51.079
36-10-3-1 et seq.              31.21,
                               31.39
                               
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1.01               10.01,
                   10.02
1.02               10.03
1.03               10.04
1.04               10.06
1.05               10.07
1.06               10.08
1.07               10.09
1.08               10.10
20.01              30.02
21.01              32.01
21.02              32.02
21.03              32.03
23.01              31.01
23.02              31.03
23.03              31.35
23.20              31.17
23.21              31.17
23.42              35.04
23.43              35.05
23.45              35.07
23.49              35.11
23.50              35.12
30.04              50.002
30.05              50.003
30.06              50.004,
                   50.005
30.08              50.001
30.99              50.003
31.01              93.02
31.02              93.03
31.03              93.01
31.10              93.20
31.11              93.21
31.12              93.22
31.13              93.23
31.15              93.04
31.16              93.05
32.02              52.022
32.05              52.024
33.02              51.015
33.03              51.016
33.04              51.017
33.05              51.018
33.06              51.019
33.20              51.036
33.21              51.037
33.22              51.038
33.26              51.040
40.01              70.01
40.02              70.02
40.03              70.35
40.04              70.36
40.05              70.37
40.06              70.38
40.07              70.39
40.08              70.40
40.09              70.41
40.10              70.42
41.03              70.21
41.05              70.20
41.14              71.013
41.17              71.002
41.18              71.003
41.19              71.004
41.22              71.001
41.23              71.005
41.25              71.006
41.26              71.007
41.27              71.008
41.28              71.009
41.29              71.010
41.30              71.011
41.31              71.012
41.40              71.040
41.41              71.041
41.50              71.085
41.55              71.025
41.57              71.026
41.75              71.055
41.76              71.056
41.77              71.057
41.83              71.120
41.86              71.121
42.01              72.01
42.02              72.02
42.03              72.03
42.04              72.04
42.05              72.05
42.08              72.06
42.09              72.07
42.10              72.08
42.12              72.09
42.13              72.10
42.14              72.11
42.15              72.12
42.16              72.13
42.17              72.14
42.18              72.15
42.19              72.16
42.20              72.17
42.51              72.99
42.52              72.19
43.01              73.01
43.02              73.99
43.10              73.30
43.11              73.31
43.12              73.34
43.13              73.32
43.14              73.33
43.15              73.35—
                   73.37
43.20              73.15
43.21              73.16
43.99              73.99
53.02              92.01,
                   92.99
53.04              92.02,
                   92.99
                   92.01,
53.99              92.02,
                   92.99
54.01              94.01
54.05              94.02
54.06              94.03
54.12              94.06
55.02              95.06
55.04              95.02
55.06              95.04
55.99              95.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.            Date Passed Code Section
1981-1              5-26-1981   TSO Table IV
1982-4              8-23-1982   TSO Table IV
1984-2              3-22-1984   TSO Table IV
1985-5              6-13-1985   TSO Table VI
1985-6              6-27-1985   TSO Table VI
1988-4              4-28-1988   TSO Table VI
1988-7              5-12-1988   TSO Table VI
1988-8              8-11-1988   153.01 
                                153.07
1993-11             9-23-1993   TSO Table II
1995-13             10-26-1995  TSO Table I
1995-15             10-26-1995  TSO Table IV
2004-19             12-16-2004  30.10
2009-9              11-18-2009  30.10
2015-7              8-26-2015   TSO Table VI
2016-4              6-8-2016    30.38
2016-13             11-16-2016  TSO Table II
                                37.01 
2016-15             12-14-2016  37.07,
                                37.20 
                                37.22
2017-1              2-22-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-2              3-22-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-4              4-12-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-5              4-26-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-6              5-10-2017   TSO Table II
2017-7              8-23-2017   TSO Table II
2017-11             10-25-2017  TSO Table VI
2017-13             11-29-2017  TSO Table II
2017-15             12-13-2017  TSO Table VI
2017-16             12-13-2017  32.03
2018-2              3-28-2018   TSO Table IV
2018-3              4-25-2018   30.38
2018-4              7-25-2018   TSO Table VI
2018-5              8-22-2018   TSO Table VI
2018-6              8-22-2018   TSO Table IV
2018-16             10-10-2018  52.026
2018-13             11-28-2018  TSO Table VI
2018-15             12-12-2018  TSO Table VI
2019-3              3-13-2019   TSO Table II
2019-4              3-27-2019   TSO Table VI
2019-5              4-10-2019   TSO Table VI
2019-6              5-8-2019    TSO Table II
2019-7              8-14-2019   TSO Table II
2019-9              11-13-2019  TSO Table VI
2019-11             12-11-2019  TSO Table VI
2020-B01/28/2020    1-28-2020   157.11
2020-B02/11/202     2-11-2020   TSO Table II
2020-RDC-04-20-2020 4-20-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-PC-05112020    5-11-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-3              5-27-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-4              8-26-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-8              9-23-2020   153.01
2020-11             11-25-2020  TSO Table II
2022-12             5-25-2022   TSO Table II
2022-BOW112222      11-22-2022  TSO Table II
2023-01             1-11-2023   TSO Table II
2023-03             2-8-2023    TSO Table IV
2023-04             4-12-2023   TSO Table II
2023-05             4-12-2023   TSO Table VI
2023-06             4-26-2023   TSO Table VI
2023-11             8-9-2023    TSO Table II
2023-15             9-13-2023   TSO Table VI
2023-16             9-27-2023   TSO Table VI
2023-17             10-25-2023  TSO Table VI
2023-24             12-13-2023  TSO Table II
2024-09             7-10-2024   TSO Table II
2024-081324BOW1     8-13-2024   30.09
                               
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     91.001 
                     91.008,
                     91.020 
                     91.027,
                     91.040 
                     91.042,
                     91.055 
                     91.066,
                     91.080 
                     91.082,
                     91.095 
                     91.097,
-        - -         91.110 
                     91.120,
                     91.135 
                     91.139,
                     91.150 
                     91.154,
                     91.165 
                     91.167,
                     91.180,
                     91.195,
                     91.210 
                     91.213,
                     91.999
1953-24  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1955-1   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1955-20  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1958-2   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1958-11  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1960-21  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1961-16  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1961-17  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1966-6   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1966-17  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1967-6   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1967-13  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1967-18A - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1967-35  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1967-43  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1969-18  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1970-13  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1970-35  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1971-10  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1972-9   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1973-3   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1973-5   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1973-11  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1973-18  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1973-19  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1974-9   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1975-1   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1975-5   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1975-8   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1975-9   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1976-1   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1976-3   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1976-11  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1977-3   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1977-5   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1977-10  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. V
1977-25  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1980-23  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1981-9   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1981-12  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1982-4   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1984-16  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VII,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
1986-20  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1987-12  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1987-15  - -         TSO Table V
1988-14  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1988-22  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1990-10  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1991-1   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1991-14  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. IX
1991-17  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1992-6   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1992-6A  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1994-7   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1994-7A  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1995-2   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1995-9   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1996-7   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1996-8   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1996-16  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1996-27  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1997-10  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1998-5   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1998-9   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
1998-15  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. VI
-        6-3-1896    92.02,
                     92.99
-        5-17-1928   Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1934-2   3-7-1934    32.02
-        4-16-1941   93.21
1949-6   4-6-1949    72.19,
                     72.99
1954-5   2-23-1954   52.024
1957-3   1-2-1957    32.03
                     93.21,
1957-12  3-20-1957   94.02,
                     94.03
1957-28  8-26-1957   31.17
-        2-5-1958    Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1959-15  6-3-1959    31.41
                     35.07,
1960-6   4-6-1960    35.11,
                     35.12,
                     71.041
1960-9   6-1-1960    52.022
1960-10  6-1-1960    50.001
1960-14  7-6-1960    92.01,
                     92.99
                     73.01,
                     73.15,
1961-8   3-22-1961   73.16,
                     73.30 
                     73.37,
                     73.99
1961-10  3-22-1961   51.017
1961-11  3-22-1961   50.002
1961-21  5-17-1961   95.06,
                     95.42
                     93.01 
1962-9   4-18-1962   93.05,
                     93.21 
                     93.23
-        10-17-1962  93.20
1964-1   1-6-1964    31.17
1964-25  8-5-1964    94.01
                     51.015,
1965-3   1-20-1965   51.017 
                     51.019
                     51.036 
1965-2   2-3-1965    51.038,
                     51.040
1965-39  11-15-1965  TSO Table IV
1966-18  5-4-1966    71.122,
                     71.999
1967-20  6-7-1967    130.02
1968-7   3-7-1968    72.99
1968-15  7-3-1968    TSO Table IV
1968-16  8-7-1968    TSO Table III
1968-17  8-7-1968    TSO Table IV
1970-20  7-1-1970    94.01,
                     95.06
1970-46  12-29-1970  35.30
1972-5   5-3-1972    95.36 
                     95.42
1972-12  9-6-1972    72.30,
                     72.31
                     92.15 
1972-19  12-21-1972  92.20,
                     92.22,
                     92.23
1972-17  1-18-1973   51.071 
                     51.079
1973-14  7-27-1973   31.21
                     110.01,
1973-16  8-24-1973   110.03,
                     110.04
                     34.01,
                     34.03,
                     34.04,
1974-1   1-24-1974   34.20,
                     34.21,
                     34.23,
                     34.24
1974-21  11-12-1974  32.02
1975-19  10- -1975   TSO Table IV
                     96.01 
1976-2   3-13-1976   96.07,
                     96.09 
                     96.30
1976-9   5-14-1976   51.073,
                     51.081
1976-15  8-26-1976   TSO Table I
1976-22  10-14-1976  TSO Table I
                     35.07,
1977-4   4-14-1977   35.11,
                     35.12
1977-7   6-23-1977   TSO Table I
1977-8   6-23-1977   TSO Table III
1977-17  9-8-1977    TSO Table I
                     51.001,
1977-20  11-10-1977  51.018,
                     51.035 
                     51.040
1977-21  11-10-1977  51.055 
                     51.059
1977-22  11-10-1977  51.015 
                     51.021
1977-27  1-12-1978   TSO Table V
1978-8   7-27-1978   TSO Table I
1978-19  11-30-1978  TSO Table II
1978-21  12-14-1978  72.99
1979-3   2-22-1979   TSO Table V
1979-4   3-22-1979   TSO Table I
                     71.100 
1979-8   5-10-1979   71.108,
                     71.999
1979-12  7-13-1979   51.036
1979-24  12-13-1979  151.01 
                     151.09
1979-26  12-27-1979  130.01
1979-27  12-27-1979  Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1979-28  12-27-1979  TSO Table V
1980-5   4-10-1980   TSO Table I
1980-8   4-24-1980   72.18
1981-10  5-8-1980    TSO Table IV
1980-11  5-22-1980   TSO Table V
1980-13  6-27-1980   TSO Table V
1981     2-13-1981   TSO Table I
1981-6   4-10-1981   Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1981-10  7-23-1981   TSO Table V
1981-15  11-12-1981  TSO Table I
1982-2   3-18-1982   TSO Table IV
1982-14  10-14-1982  TSO Table V
1982-17  11-11-1982  TSO Table IV
1982-19  12-9-1982   32.02
1982-21  1-13-1983   35.32
1983-4   3-31-1983   35.32
                     30.07,
                     30.25,
                     31.02,
                     31.03,
                     31.16,
                     31.17,
1983-6   4-14-1983   31.20,
                     31.21,
                     31.35 
                     31.37,
                     31.41,
                     32.01,
                     32.03 
                     32.10
1983-19  9-22-1983   35.32
1983-23  1-12-1984   TSO Table V
1984-1   3-22-1984   TSO Table I
1984-5   3-22-1984   TSO Table V
                     156.01 
                     156.04,
1984-19  10-25-1984  156.06 
                     156.19,
                     156.99
1984-23  11-19-1984  TSO Table I
1985-3   2-27-1985   TSO Table I
1985-6   3-14-1985   31.35
1985-10  5-23-1985   TSO Table IV
1985-11  5-23-1985   TSO Table I
1985-15  6-27-1985   156.05
                     51.036 
1985-18  7-25-1985   51.038,
                     51.070
1985-23  9-12-1985   TSO Table IV
1985-27  10-10-1985  TSO Table I
1985-30  12-12-1985  TSO Table I
1985-31  12-12-1985  156.03
1986-2   4-10-1986   TSO Table III
1986-13  8-14-1986   TSO Table I
1986-17  11-13-1986  TSO Table V
1987-2   2-26-1987   TSO Table V
1987-3   4-9-1987    95.42,
                     95.99
1987-4   4-23-1987   TSO Table I
1987-6   5-28-1987   TSO Table I
1987-16  8-27-1987   TSO Table V
1987-18  1-28-1988   TSO Table I
1988-1   2-11-1988   72.99,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VII
1988-2   3-24-1988   30.27
1988-4   4-14-1988   51.036,
                     51.037
1988-7   4-28-1988   TSO Table V
1988-11  7-14-1988   TSO Table V
1988-15  8-11-1988   TSO Table I
1988-16  8-11-1988   TSO Table V
                     50.006,
1988-20  9-8-1988    50.008,
                     50.120 
                     50.124
1988-26  1-12-1989   157.01 
                     157.10
                     150.01 
1988-30  1-12-1989   150.20,
                     150.99
1988-31  1-12-1989   TSO Table I
1989-1   1-26-1989   TSO Table V
1990-1   2-8-1989    TSO Table V
1989-3   4-13-1989   92.01,
                     92.99
1989-7   6-8-1989    53.01 
                     53.04
1989-7   6-9-1989    53.05
1989-9   6-22-1989   51.073,
                     51.078
1989-14  7-27-1989   TSO Table I
                     150.04 
1989-21  9-28-1989   150.06,
                     150.08,
                     150.18
1989-20  11-9-1989   TSO Table I
1989-24  11-9-1989   TSO Table I
1990-2   2-8-1990    TSO Table V
                     158.01 
1990-8   5-11-1990   158.10,
                     158.99
1990-12  7-27-1990   TSO Table V
1990-13  7-27-1990   TSO Table V
1991-2   3-4-1991    30.28
1991-3   5-10-1991   92.01,
                     92.99
1991-5   6-14-1991   TSO Table V
1991-6   7-26-1991   TSO Table V
1991-8   7-26-1991   TSO Table V
1991-11  9-12-1991   TSO Table V
1991-12  9-12-1991   TSO Table V
1991-13  9-26-1991   TSO Table V
1992-7   6-25-1992   TSO Table V
1992-13  8-27-1992   TSO Table I
1992-15  10-22-1992  TSO Table V
1992-16  10-22-1992  TSO Table I
1992-20  12-17-1992  32.02
1993-1   4-22-1993   TSO Table III
1993-2   5-13-1993   TSO Table V
1993-3   5-13-1993   TSO Table V
1993-4   5-13-1993   TSO Table I
1993-6   8-12-1993   TSO Table V
                     50.006,
                     50.008,
1993-8   8-26-1993   50.065 
                     50.073,
                     50.120 
                     50.124
1993-10  10-28-1993  TSO Table I
1993-15  1-13-1994   TSO Table V
1994-2   4-28-1994   TSO Table I
1994-5   4-28-1994   TSO Table III
1994-6   4-28-1994   TSO Table V
1994-9   7-14-1994   TSO Table V
1994-13  10-27-1994  51.036,
                     51.037
1994-16  11-10-1994  TSO Table V
                     34.01,
                     34.04,
1995-1   1-26-1995   34.20,
                     34.21,
                     34.23,
                     34.24
1995-3   2-9-1995    TSO Table III
1995-4   4-13-1995   50.155,
                     50.156
1995-7   6-9-1995    51.070,
                     51.078
1995-12  10-26-1995  TSO Table I
1995-14  12-28-1995  TSO Table V
1995-15  12-28-1995  TSO Table V
1995-17  12-28-1995  TSO Table V
1996-3   3-28-1996   TSO Table V
1996-4   5-9-1996    72.99
1996-18  9-26-1996   72.99
                     51.015,
                     51.017,
1996-19  9-26-1996   51.018,
                     51.021,
                     51.999
1997-1   1-23-1997   50.010
1997-7   5-22-1997   TSO Table I
1997-12  7-24-1997   30.27
1997-15  9-25-1997   150.11
1997-18  10-24-1997  TSO Table I
1997-19  12-11-1997  TSO Table V
1998-13  7-23-1998   30.09
1998-16  8-13-1998   TSO Table V
1998-17  8-27-1998   35.32
                     71.123,
1998-21  11-12-1998  Ch. 74, Sch. VI,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
1999-6   6-10-1999   Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1999-19  12-23-1999  TSO Table V
2000-1   4-27-2000   TSO Table I
                     72.02,
2000-6   6-22-2000   72.99,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2000-19  12-14-2000  35.32
2001-2   1-25-2001   Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2001-4   2-8-2001    TSO Table V
2001-6   4-12-2001   Ch. 74, Sch. III
                     51.036 
2001-7   4-12-2001   51.038,
                     51.073
2001-8   4-26-2001   30.29
2001-9   4-26-2001   TSO Table V
2001-12  5-24-2001   TSO Table V
2001-13  5-24-2001   Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
2001-15  6-28-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-21  8-23-2001   Ch. 74, Sch. IX
2001-16  10-11-2001  TSO Table I
2001-22  10-25-2001  98.01 
                     98.09
                     33.01,
                     33.02,
                     97.01,
2001-23  12-13-2001  97.04,
                     97.06,
                     97.08,
                     97.09,
                     150.06
2001-28  1-10-2002   TSO Table V
2002-1   2-14-2002   TSO Table I
2002-2   2-14-2002   TSO Table V
2002-3   2-14-2002   50.011
2002-4   2-14-2002   TSO Table V
2002-5   2-14-2002   32.03
2002-7   3-28-2002   30.30
2002-8   3-28-2002   TSO Table I
2002-9   3-28-2002   TSO Table V
2002-10  3-28-2002   TSO Table V
2002-11  3-28-2002   TSO Table I
2002-12  3-28-2002   TSO Table V
2002-13  3-28-2002   TSO Table I
2002-14  3-28-2002   TSO Table V
2002-17  5-9-2002    52.020
2002-20  7-11-2002   35.32
2002-21  7-11-2002   34.35
2002-23  7-25-2002   150.11
2002-24  8-22-2002   TSO Table I
2002-25  8-22-2002   TSO Table V
2002-28  9-12-2002   71.124
2002-30  10-24-2002  32.02
2002-31  1-9-2003    Ch. 74, Sch. III
2003-1   2-27-2003   Ch. 74, Sch. VI
                     72.30,
2003-2   2-27-2003   72.31,
                     72.99
2003-4   6-26-2003   TSO Table I
2003-5   6-26-2003   TSO Table V
2003-9   8-14-2003   150.11
2003-14  10-23-2003  TSO Table I
2003-15  10-23-2003  TSO Table V
2003-16  12-11-2003  Ch. 74, Sch. VI,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VII
2003-17  12-11-2003  TSO Table V
2004-1   2-12-2004   TSO Table I
2004-2   2-12-2004   TSO Table V
2004-5   2-26-2004   30.31
2004-6   2-26-2004   30.32
2004-3   3-11-2004   TSO Table I
2004-4   3-11-2004   TSO Table V
2004-9   4-8-2004    TSO Table V
2004-10  4-8-2004    TSO Table I
2004-14  5-27-2004   TSO Table I
2004-15  5-27-2004   TSO Table V
2004-19  6-10-2004   TSO Table V
2004-17  6-24-2004   TSO Table I
2004-18  6-24-2004   TSO Table V
2004-11  7-8-2004    TSO Table I
2004-12  7-8-2004    TSO Table V
2004-22  8-26-2004   72.09,
                     72.99
2004-25  9-23-2004   Ch. 74, Sch. VI,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VII
                     99.01,
2004-28  10-14-2004  99.02,
                     99.99
2004-29  10-28-2004  150.11
2004-31  11-18-2004  TSO Table I
2004-32  11-18-2004  TSO Table V
2004-33  11-18-2004  TSO Table I
2004-36  12-16-2004  31.35
2005-1   1-27-2005   Ch. 74, Sch. IX
2005-2   2-10-2005   TSO Table I
2005-3   2-10-2005   TSO Table V
2005-6   4-28-2005   50.010
2005-7   4-28-2005   52.020
2005-4   6-23-2005   TSO Table I
2005-8   6-23-2005   TSO Table V
2005-10  7-28-2005   TSO Table V
2005-15  9-13-2005   Ch. 74, Sch. II,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III
                     130.15 
2005-17  10-27-2005  130.23,
                     150.01
2005-16  12-15-2005  TSO Table I
2005-19  12-15-2005  TSO Table V
2005-20  12-15-2005  TSO Table V
2006-1   1-26-2006   150.11
2006-6   4-27-2006   130.15
2006-8   5-25-2006   34.01,
                     34.05
2006-2   10-26-2006  Ch. 74, Sch. I
2006-14  11-16-2006  150.11
2007-1   6-28-2007   TSO Table I
2007-2   6-28-2007   TSO Table V
                     50.006,
2007-4   6-28-2007   50.067,
                     50.073
2007-6   7-12-2007   Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2007-7   7-26-2007   TSO Table I
2007-8   7-26-2007   TSO Table V
2007-9   7-26-2007   TSO Table IV
2007-13  9-13-2007   TSO Table V
2007-16  9-27-2007   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2007-17  10-11-2007  TSO Table V
2008-1   1-23-2008   31.35,
                     32.06
2008-2   1-23-2008   TSO Table V
2008-3   1-23-2008   30.33
2008-5   2-27-2008   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2008-6   3-12-2008   35.32
                     111.02 
2008-7   3-12-2008   111.07,
                     111.08,
                     111.99
2008-8   3-26-2008   TSO Table IV
                     71.025,
2008-12  5-14-2008   71.026,
                     71.027,
                     71.125
2008-13  5-14-2008   TSO Table V
2008-11  5-28-2008   TSO Table I
2008-20  6-25-2008   51.016,
                     51.082
2008-18  8-13-2008   TSO Table I
2008-22  8-27-2008   TSO Table V
2008-17  9-10-2008   53.02
2008-23  9-10-2008   TSO Table V
2008-28  9-10-2008   31.17,
                     31.18
-        9-17-2008   94.06
2008-25  9-24-2008   52.020
                     51.036,
2008-26  9-24-2008   51.070,
                     51.073
2008-32  10-22-2008  35.32
2008-35  12-10-2008  51.261
2008-36  12-10-2008  32.02
                     51.035,
                     51.095 
                     51.099,
                     51.110 
                     51.122,
                     51.135 
                     51.146, 51.155,
                     51.160 
                     51.165,
                     51.180 
                     51.187,
                     51.200 
                     51.208,
2008-38  12-10-2008  51.220 
                     51.233,
                     51.245 
                     51.247,
                     51.260,
                     51.262 
                     51.267,
                     51.280,
                     51.281,
                     51.295,
                     51.296,
                     51.310 
                     51.313,
                     51.999
2009-3   1-28-2009   TSO Table V
2009-6   4-8-2009    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2009-8   5-13-2009   TSO Table V
2009-9   5-13-2009   30.60 
                     30.73
2009-12  5-27-2009   111.08
2009-13  5-27-2009   72.99
                     90.01,
                     90.03,
                     90.05,
2009-15  5-27-2009   90.07 
                     90.12,
                     90.21 
                     90.24,
                     90.99
2009-16  5-27-2009   30.35
2009-18  9-9-2009    Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2009-21  10-28-2009  51.080
2010-3   2-10-2010   30.36
                     50.012,
2010-4   3-10-2010   51.022,
                     52.007
2010-5   3-24-2010   TSO Table III
2010-6   4-14-2010   TSO Table I
                     51.015,
                     51.035,
2010-9   6-23-2010   51.037,
                     51.073, 51.083,
                     52.006,
                     52.022
                     90.21 
2010-10  6-23-2010   90.24,
                     90.99
2010-11  6-23-2010   Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
-        9-8-2010    95.21
                     50.025 
                     50.030,
                     50.045 
                     50.052,
                     50.120 
2010-11  9-22-2010   50.122,
                     50.135 
                     50.140,
                     50.170,
                     50.171,
                     50.185
2010-17  12-8-2010   TSO Table III
2011-4   2-9-2011    30.37
2011-2   2-23-2011   TSO Table I
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I,
2011-5   2-23-2011   Ch. 74, Sch. VI,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VII
2011-7   4-27-2011   30.38
2011-10  5-25-2011   TSO Table III
2011-15  9-14-2011   TSO Table V
2012-2   3-14-2012   Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2012-6   6-27-2012   30.09
2012-7   9-26-2012   Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2012-9   10-10-2012  32.02
2012-10  10-10-2012  TSO Table V
2012-13  11-14-2012  35.32
                     36.001,
                     36.003 
                     36.005,
                     36.007 
                     36.011,
                     36.031 
                     36.041,
                     36.056,
                     36.058 
                     36.063,
                     36.065,
                     36.066,
                     36.070 
                     36.074,
                     36.092,
2013-7   8-28-2013   36.095,
                     36.096,
                     36.100 
                     36.103,
                     36.105,
                     36.106,
                     36.121 
                     36.123,
                     36.125 
                     36.127, 36.134,
                     36.140 
                     36.142,
                     36.145 
                     36.147,
                     36.160 
                     36.163
2013-8   9-25-2013   TSO Table I
2013-11  10-23-2013  51.036,
                     51.038
2013-12  11-13-2013  TSO Table V
2013-15  1-8-2014    Ch. 74, Sch. III
2014-6   6-11-2014   71.040
2014-5   6-25-2014   Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2014-10  8-27-2014   TSO Table I
2014-11  8-27-2014   TSO Table V
2014-13  12-10-2014  TSO Table I
2014-19  12-10-2014  30.11
2014-21  1-14-2015   Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2015-6   7-8-2015    51.114
2015-7   8-12-2015   TSO Table III
2015-8   8-26-2015   35.33
2015-9   8-26-2015   35.15
2015-5   9-23-2015   TSO Table I
2015-10  10-14-2015  TSO Table I
2015-11  10-14-2015  Ch. 74, Sch. III
2015-19  12-9-2015   150.11
2016-3   3-23-2016   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2016-7   5-11-2016   TSO Table V
2016-13  10-12-2016  98.02
2016-18  10-26-2016  TSO Table V
2016-20  1-11-2017   30.40
2016-21  1-11-2017   30.41
2017-6   4-26-2017   TSO Table III
2017-19  11-29-2017  71.070 
                     71.073
                     50.027,
                     50.030,
                     50.047,
                     50.049,
                     50.065 
2017-20  11-29-2017  50.069,
                     50.073 
                     50.076,
                     50.121,
                     50.122,
                     50.137,
                     50.171
2018-2   2-28-2018   30.44
2018-3   2-28-2018   30.45
2018-11  7-11-2018   Ch. 74, Sch. I
                     72.02,
2018-12  9-12-2018   72.30,
                     72.31
2018-14  9-12-2018   Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I,
2018-15  10-10-2018  Ch. 74, Sch. II, 
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2018-22  11-28-2018  30.42
2018-24  1-9-2019    Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2019-1   1-23-2019   50.105 
                     50.107
2019-6   3-13-2019   TSO Table V
                     72.20,
2019-3   3-27-2019   72.32,
                     72.99
2019-8   3-27-2019   30.46
2019-9   4-24-2019   30.38
2019-12  6-26-2019   TSO Table III
2019-13  7-10-2019   30.38
2019-15  8-28-2019   30.47
2019-16  9-11-2019   Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
2019-19  10-9-2019   Ch. 74, Sch. VI
                     90.01,
2019-18  11-13-2019  90.20,
                     90.99
2019-22  11-13-2019  TSO Table IV
2019-10  11-27-2019  30.48
2020-04  2-12-2020   TSO Table V
2020-05  2-26-2020   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2020-07  3-11-2020   30.43
2020-08  3-13-2020   Ch. 74, Sch. XI
2020-11  3-25-2020   155.01
2020-12  3-25-2020   30.45
2020-16  4-22-2020   30.11
2020-17  4-22-2020   51.036,
                     51.070
2020-19  4-22-2020   Ch. 74, Sch. I
                     10.05,
                     36.120,
                     36.122 
                     36.124,
                     50.001 
                     50.009,
                     50.010 
                     50.012,
                     50.025,
                     50.027 
                     50.030,
                     50.045,
                     50.047 
                     50.052,
                     50.065 
                     50.076,
                     50.120 
                     50.124,
                     50.135,
                     50.137 
                     50.140,
                     50.155,
                     50.156,
                     50.171,
                     50.185,
                     51.001,
                     51.002,
                     51.015 
                     51.019,
                     51.021,
                     51.022,
                     51.035 
                     51.037,
                     51.039,
                     51.040,
                     51.056,
                     51.058,
                     51.059,
                     51.082,
                     51.095,
                     51.096,
                     51.098,
                     51.099,
                     51.110 
                     51.117,
                     51.121,
                     51.135 
                     51.141,
                     51.143,
                     51.146,
                     51.161 
                     51.165,
                     51.181 
                     51.183,
                     51.185,
                     51.187,
                     51.200 
                     51.208,
                     51.221 
                     51.230,
                     51.232,
                     51.233,
                     51.245 
                     51.247,
                     51.260 
                     51.267,
                     51.280,
                     51.281,
                     51.295,
                     51.310 
                     51.312,
                     51.999,
                     52.001 
                     52.008,
2019-25  5-13-2020   52.020 
                     52.023,
                     52.025 
                     52.031,
                     52.046 
                     52.051,
                     52.065 
                     52.074,
                     52.999,
                     53.01 
                     53.05,
                     71.072,
                     71.999,
                     72.19,
                     72.20,
                     72.31,
                     72.99,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VI,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VII,
                     90.01 
                     90.06,
                     90.13 
                     90.24,
                     90.99,
                     92.01,
                     92.03,
                     92.17 
                     92.19,
                     92.99,
                     93.04,
                     93.05,
                     93.20 
                     93.24,
                     93.99,
                     94.01,
                     94.03 
                     94.05,
                     94.99,
                     95.01 
                     95.03,
                     95.05,
                     95.06,
                     95.35,
                     95.37,
                     95.42,
                     95.99,
                     96.01,
                     96.03,
                     96.06,
                     96.08 
                     96.12,
                     96.14 
                     96.18,
                     96.20 
                     96.23,
                     96.26 
                     96.28,
                     96.30,
                     96.31,
                     96.99,
                     97.02 
                     97.08,
                     97.10,
                     97.99,
                     98.02,
                     110.02,
                     111.01 
                     111.07, 111.09,
                     111.99,
                     112.01 
                     112.13,
                     130.02,
                     130.15,
                     155.01
                     70.02,
                     71.014,
2020-24  6-10-2020   71.999,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. X
2020-26  8-26-2020   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2020-27  9-9-2020    155.01
2020-5   9-15-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-7   9-15-2020   TSO Table IV
2020-22  9-23-2020   30.10
2020-28  9-23-2020   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2020-33  10-28-2020  51.036
2020-34  10-28-2020  TSO Table III
2020-30  11-12-2020  TSO Table V
2021-12  5-26-2021   100.01
2022-2   2-9-2022    50.010
2022-4   2-23-2022   155.01
2022-6   3-9-2022    TSO Table I
2022-7   4-13-2022   TSO Table I
2022-10  3-23-2022   30.49
2022-12  4-27-2022   30.10
2022-14  5-11-2022   52.045
2022-15  5-11-2022   Adopting Ordinance
2022-16  5-11-2022   155.01
2022-17  5-25-2022   36.140
2022-18  5-25-2022   TSO Table I
2022-20  6-8-2022    52.045
                     50.027,
2022-21  6-8-2022    50.047,
                     50.076,
                     50.137
2022-24  8-10-2022   155.01
2022-25  8-24-2022   32.02
2022-26  8-31-2022   51.036
2022-27  8-10-2022   30.50
2022-30  8-24-2022   70.02,
                     71.015
2022-31  9-28-2022   30.30
2022-33  9-28-2022   30.12
2022-36  10-26-2022  100.02
2022-39  12-14-2022  30.25
2022-42  12-14-2022  155.01
2022-43  12-14-2022  155.01
2022-44  12-14-2022  30.51
2022-45  12-14-2022  30.52
2022-47  12-14-2022  30.09
2023-01  1-25-2023   TSO Table V
2023-02  1-25-2023   TSO Table V
2023-04  2-27-2023   Ch. 74, Sch. VI
2023-09  4-26-2023   71.123,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2023-12  5-10-2023   36.123
2023-15  6-14-2023   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2023-16  6-28-2023   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2023-17  6-28-2023   30.53
2023-20  6-28-2023   155.01
                     90.10,
2023-21  8-9-2023    90.26,
                     90.99
2023-23  8-23-2023   30.26
2023-24  8-23-2023   155.01
                     52.020,
2023-25  9-13-2023   52.021,
                     52.045
2023-27  10-11-2023  TSO Table I
2023-28  10-11-2023  TSO Table V
2023-29  10-25-2023  30.26
2023-36  11-22-2023  30.11
                     50.027,
                     50.030,
2023-42  12-13-2023  50.047,
                     50.049,
                     50.137,
                     50.141
2024-01  2-14-2024   Adopting Ordinance
2024-03  2-14-2024   155.01
2024-04  2-28-2024   32.08,
                     32.11
                     50.010,
                     50.013,
                     51.080,
2024-06  3-13-2024   51.083,
                     52.020,
                     52.021,
                     52.032
2024-07  3-13-2024   Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74, III
                     30.36,
2024-10  4-24-2024   30.37,
                     30.39
2024-12  4-24-2024   30.54
2024-16  5-8-2024    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2024-19  6-12-2024   155.01
2024-21  7-24-2024   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2024-22  7-24-2024   Adopting Ordinance
2024-28  10-9-2024   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2024-32  11-13-2024  TSO Table III
2024-33  11-13-2024  155.01
2024-34  11-27-2024  30.55
2024-35  11-27-2024  30.11
2024-36  11-27-2024  30.56
2024-38  2-12-2025   30.34,
                     30.57
                     54.001—
                     54.008,
                     54.100—
                     54.106,
                     54.200—
                     54.210,
                     54.300—
                     54.308,
2024-39  12-11-2024  54.400—
                     54.406,
                     54.500—
                     54.507,
                     54.600,
                     54.601,
                     54.700—
                     54.707,
                     54.999
2024-42  1-8-2025    30.10
2024-43  1-8-2025    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2024-44  12-11-2024  31.42
                    
 
 
