TOWN OF HAGERSTOWN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 8-2025, passed 5-5-2025, and
Res. 6-2012, passed 12-17-2012
State legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS OF HAGERSTOWN, INDIANA
TOWN COUNCIL
PRESIDENT            Allan Bullock
MEMBER               Chris Blaase
MEMBER               Brian Longbons
MEMBER               Dillon Pitcher
MEMBER               Donnie Benedict
TOWN OFFICIALS
TOWN CLERK-TREASURER Julie J. Neal
TOWN MANAGER         Chris LaMar
TOWN ATTORNEY        Jon Madison, Esquire
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.17   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.18   Codes as property of the town
   
10.19   References to Town Council throughout code
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
Hagerstown Code, for which designation Code of Ordinances, Codified Ordinances,
or Code may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AND/OR. Either conjunction AND or OR shall include the other, as if
written AND/OR.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council. The Clerk and
Fiscal Officer of the town.
      CODE. The Hagerstown Town Code.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. Unless specifically provided, means the time within
which an act is to be done, as herein provided, and shall be computed by
excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day be Sunday or
holiday, it shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Hagerstown, Indiana.
      COUNTY. The County of Wayne, State of Indiana.
      ET SEQ. The Latin phrase meaning “and the following.”
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      I.C. Refers to state law found in the Indiana Code.
      MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      MUST and SHALL. The actions referred to are each mandatory.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation of declaration in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words
SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the whole or
a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every kind of property except real property.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY.  Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street or highway, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school
yard, or open space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
        STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STREET. All streets, highways, avenues, boulevards, lanes, courts,
squares, roads, alleys, viaducts, or other public ways in the town which have
been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by planning and development
laws of the State of Indiana, including a fee interest, a life estate, a future
interest, a present possessory interest, or an equitable interest of a contract
purchaser.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applies to a building or land and shall include any
person holding a written or oral lease of or who occupied the whole or a part
of the building or land, either alone or with others.
      TOWN.  The Town of Hagerstown, Indiana, or the area within the
territorial limits of the Town of Hagerstown, Indiana, and such territory, if
any, outside of the town over which the town has jurisdiction or control by
virtue of any constitutional or statutory provision.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of substantial property interest, see I.C. 36-7-9-2, of the
State’s Planning and Development Chapter
   Definitions of general applicability, see I.C. 36-1-2-1 through 36-1-2-24
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) does not affect the operation of division
(B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of the town exercising the
powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 1-1-1990; Am. Ord. 40,
passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1963 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1963 Code, Ch.
     , §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.17 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless otherwise expressly provided, an ordinance shall take effect when
passed according to I.C. 36-4-6-14.
§ 10.18 CODES AS PROPERTY OF THE TOWN.
   All copies of the Hagerstown Town Code, except those sold by the town to
private individuals or given or sold to the public library, shall be the
property of the Town of Hagerstown. Any Hagerstown Town Codes delivered to
elected or appointed officials shall not be retained by those individuals after
the expiration of their term(s) of office or appointment.
§ 10.19 REFERENCES TO TOWN COUNCIL THROUGHOUT CODE.
   All references within the Town Code of the Town of Hagerstown, Indiana to
“Town Board,” “Board,” “Board of Trustees,” and similar terms intended to refer
to the Town Council of the Town of Hagerstown, Indiana, the legislative body of
the town pursuant to I.C. 36-5, shall be changed to and reflected as “Town
Council.”
(Ord. 6-2007, passed 6-4-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Officially changing the terms “Board of Trustees” to “Town Council,” see
House Enrolled Act No. 1042, effective 3-30-1989
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
(Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
31.   EXECUTIVE
   
32.   LEGISLATIVE
   
33.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
   
34.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   
35.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
   
36.   DEPARTMENTS
   
37.   TOWN COURT
   
38.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
   
39.   PURCHASING
   
40.   FUNDS
   
41.   COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
   
42.   PUBLIC RECORDS
   
43.   SCHEDULE OF FEES - VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
   
44.   CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Elective officers; appointed officials
   
30.02   Notice of election
   
30.03   Oath of officials
   
30.04   Bonds of officials
   
30.05   Filling vacancies in office held by candidate of major political party
   
30.06   Vacancies in Council or elective offices
   
30.07   Fees for copies of accident reports
   
30.08   Surcharge fee for payments returned unpaid
   
30.09   Adoption of National Incident Management System
   
30.10   Internal control standards
   
30.11   Electronic funds transfers and online banking
§ 30.01 ELECTIVE OFFICERS; APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The elective officers of the town, elected in accordance with the
provisions of the state election laws and I.C. 36-5-2-1 et seq. and 36-5-6-1 et
seq., shall be:
      (1)   The members of the Town Council; and
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Town Council shall appoint the following officials:
      (1)   Superintendent of Utilities;
      (2)   Superintendent of Parks and Recreation;
      (3)   The Town Marshal; and
      (4)   Boards, commissions, officers, and other employees pursuant to the
provisions of the laws in effect and as hereafter provided.
§ 30.02 NOTICE OF ELECTION.
   The election inspectors shall make a certified statement, over their own
signatures, of the persons elected to fill the several offices in the town and
file the same with the clerk of the circuit court of the county, within ten
days from the day of the election.
Statutory reference:
   Notice of election, see I.C. 3-10-7-34
§ 30.03 OATH OF OFFICIALS.
   The members of the Town Council and other officers-elect shall, within ten
days after the election, take and subscribe, before some person authorized to
administer the same, the usual oath or affirmation for the faithful performance
of the duties of their respective offices.
Statutory reference:
   Oaths, see I.C. 5-4-1-1 and 5-4-1-4
§ 30.04 BONDS OF OFFICIALS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer and Marshal of the town shall, before commencement of
their term of office, each and severally, give bond payable to the State of
Indiana, with surety to the approval of the Town Council, in such an amount
each as the Town Council shall direct.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds, see I.C. 5-4-1-8 and 5-4-1-9
§ 30.05 FILLING VACANCIES IN OFFICE HELD BY CANDIDATE OF MAJOR POLITICAL PARTY.
   (A)   This section applies only to filling those vacancies concerning which
the person who last held the vacated office was elected to that office as a
candidate of a political party whose candidate at the most recent election for
Secretary of State received either the highest or next highest number of votes
cast state-wide for that office, or was selected for that office under this
section.
(I.C. 3-13-9-1)
   (B)   (1)   For the period of time between when a vacancy occurs and when
that vacancy is filled under this section, the chief deputy employee of the
office that is vacant shall assume the duties of that office. If no chief
deputy employee exists in the Office of Clerk-Treasurer, then the President of
the Town Council shall appoint, as soon as is reasonably possible, an
individual to fill that vacancy for the period of time between when the vacancy
occurs and when it is filled under this section.
(I.C. 3-13-11-12 and 3-13-11-16)
      (2)   Any person who assumes the duties of any vacant office under this
section has and may exercise all of its rights, powers, and duties, is entitled
to the compensation fixed for that office, and is subject to all the
liabilities of that office.
(I.C. 3-13-11-18)
   (C)   (1)   Vacancies in all elective town offices, except the offices of
prosecuting attorney, clerk of the circuit court, and judge of any court, shall
be filled for the unexpired term by a caucus as provided in I.C. 3-2-9-10 and
3-13-6-1 through 3-13-6-3.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (C)(1) above, in the case of a vacancy in
an elected town office where a caucus of precinct committee persons under this
chapter would consist of only one precinct committee person(s) who is not a
resident of that town, the vacancy shall be filled by the County Chairperson in
the manner prescribed by I.C. 3-13-11-5. However, the person selected to fill
the vacancy must be affiliated with the same political party as the original
office holder.
(I.C. 3-13-1-5)
§ 30.06 VACANCIES IN COUNCIL OR ELECTIVE OFFICES.
   Any vacancy occurring in the Town Council, or in any other elective office
of the town, shall be filled by appointment by the Town Council, at a regular
or special meeting of the Town Council, called for that purpose, of which
meeting not less than ten-days’ notice in writing shall be given to each member
of the Town Council by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town; but the appointments,
if to fill a vacancy in the office of Town Council, shall be made from the ward
in which the vacancy occurred, and no appointment shall extend beyond the
remainder of that term.
(I.C. 3-13-9-4)
§ 30.07 FEES FOR COPIES OF ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall charge and collect a fee of $5 for a copy of
any accident report furnished to any persons entitled to receive this
information. This fee is in accordance with I.C. 9-29-11-1. In the event that
the minimum charge provided in I.C. 9-29-11-1 (as amended or recodified)
increased, the amount charged by the town shall increase to coincide with the
minimum charge as required by Indiana law.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall deposit all accident report
receipt fees set out in division (A) above into the Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund. The funds in this account shall be used for the continuing
education and training of law enforcement officers employed by the agency and
for equipment and supplies for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. 1-1982, passed 2-1-1982; Am. Ord. 12-2006, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 30.08 SURCHARGE FEE FOR PAYMENTS RETURNED UNPAID.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall assess and collect a surcharge fee of $20
for each instrument offered to the town for payment that is returned unpaid by
the financial institution upon which the instrument was drawn.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the person or entity presenting the
instrument for payment of the returned status of the instrument and the
surcharge fee that is due and payable in addition to the amount of money
reflected on the instrument. The notice shall be by certified mail.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby enabled to curtail services if the
person or entity offering the instrument for payment of the services fails to
bring their account current to include the surcharge fee within seven working
days of the notice being mailed.
   (D)   This section does not negate nor waive any other surcharge penalty
that may legally be imposed for nonpayment of services rendered.
(Ord. 4-1998, passed 8-3-1998)
§ 30.09 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The town hereby adopts the National Incident Management System dated 3-1-
2004.
(Ord. 11-2006, passed 9-5-2006)
§ 30.10 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Uniform Internal Control Policy.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 30.11 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic Clearing House (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments, and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic Funds Transfers (EFT) including online transfers.
Electronic Funds Transfers (EFT), including online transfers, are authorized
for the Clerk-Treasurer for the purpose of transferring funds to the Account
Payable checking account from the General, Electric, Water, Sewer, and other
accounts as it relates to the payment or processing of claims and/or invoices.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed 3-1-2021)
CHAPTER 31: EXECUTIVE
Section
President of the Town Council
   
31.01   Creation of office
   
31.02   Powers and duties
   
31.03   President Pro Tem
Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.05   Creation of office
   
31.06   General duties
   
31.07   Orders for payment of money
   
31.08   Monthly statements
   
31.09   Yearly settlements
   
31.10   General powers
   
31.11   Election; term
   
31.12   Depositing public funds
Fiscal Officer
   
31.25   Fiscal officer authority
Town Manager
   
31.35   Creation of position
   
31.36   Absence
   
31.37   Issuance of warrants or execution of notes or bonds prohibited
   
31.38   Powers and duties
   
31.39   Participation in hearing on disciplinary charges
   
31.40   Town Manager to assume powers and duties of the Director of Municipal
Operations
   
31.41   Statutory basis
PRESIDENT OF THE TOWN COUNCIL
§ 31.01 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed his or her term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7) (Ord. 12-1998, passed 11-16-1998)
§ 31.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The President of the Town Council may call a special meeting at any time by
personal or written notice to each member of the Town Council and shall call a
special meeting upon request in writing by any three members.
(1963 Code, Ch. 2, § 1) (Ord. 19-1878, passed 4-15-1878; Am. Ord. 12-1998,
passed 11-16-1998)
§ 31.03 PRESIDENT PRO TEM.
   During the temporary absence or disability of the President as heretofore
provided, the Town Council may elect one of its number to act as President Pro
Tem, who during the absence or disability of the President shall perform the
duties pertaining to the office.
(Ord. 12-1998, passed 11-16-1998)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 31.05 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6.5, the Clerk-Treasurer elected under this
chapter is both the Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
§ 31.06 GENERAL DUTIES.
   (A)   This section does not apply to a town that has adopted an ordinance
under I.C. 36-5-6.5.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what source the Clerk-Treasurer
has received town money and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has paid out
town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and count forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers, and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements, and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions, and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
   (C)   Except as in I.C. 5-11, a Clerk-Treasurer is not liable, in an
individual capacity, for any act or omission occurring in connection with the
performance of the requirements set forth division (B) above, unless the act or
omission constitutes gross negligence or an intentional disregard of the
requirements.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 31.07 ORDERS FOR PAYMENT OF MONEY.
   (A)   No order drawn upon the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of money shall
be valid unless the order is drawn upon a bill or claim presented to the Town
Council while in session at its regular or special meeting and unless the order
is properly signed by the President of the Town Council and the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   Any Town Council member violating the provisions of this section shall
be fined $5 for each and every offense.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6) (1963 Code, Ch. 2, § 4) (Ord. 18-1878, passed 4-15-1878)
§ 31.08 MONTHLY STATEMENTS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall, on the first day of each month, file with the
Town Council a statement of the receipts and disbursements of the town treasury
for the preceding month, showing also the balance in each of the several funds
available for the uses of the town. The Clerk-Treasurer’s books, accounts, and
vouchers shall at all times be subject to the examination of the Town Council
or of any person appointed by the Town Council for that purpose.
§ 31.09 YEARLY SETTLEMENTS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be required to make an annual settlement with the
Town Council at a regular meeting of the Town Council in January. Immediately
after the settlement, the Clerk-Treasurer shall publish an exhibit of all the
receipts and expenditures of the town for the current year.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6) (1963 Code, Ch. 2, § 5) (Ord. 41-1878, passed 4-15-1878)
§ 31.10 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions, and take
acknowledgments of all instruments required by law to be acknowledged; he or
she shall have the custody of the seal of the town; and he or she shall perform
all other duties as set forth in I.C. 36-5-6-5 and I.C. 36-5-6-6.
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and
employees needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval
of the Town Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the
Clerk-Treasurer’s pleasure.
      (2)   If a town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
      (3)   (a)   If the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to perform the fiscal
requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position, the town shall hire or contract
with a qualified certified public accountant to:
            1.   Provide guidance to the Clerk-Treasurer regarding the
performance of the Clerk-Treasurer’s responsibilities; or
            2.   Perform the Clerk-Treasurer’s fiscal responsibilities.
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer is considered to be unable to perform the
fiscal requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position if the town is declared
unauditable under I.C. 5-11-1-9(b).
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer has the power to solemnize marriages within the
confines of the town.
(I.C. 31-11-6-1)
§ 31.11 ELECTION; TERM.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or I.C. 3-10-
7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Article
6, Section 6, of the Constitution of the State of Indiana. The Clerk-Treasurer
forfeits office if the Clerk-Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town. An
individual who resides in territory that is annexed by the town before the
election is considered a resident of the town for purpose of this division,
even if the annexation took effect less than one year before the election.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the term of office of the
Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:00 p.m. January 1 after election
and continuing until a successor is elected and qualified.
   (D)   The term of office of a Clerk-Treasurer subject to an ordinance
described by I.C. 3-10-6-2.6 is one year, beginning at 12:00 p.m. January 1
after the Clerk-Treasurer’s election and continuing until the Clerk-Treasurer’s
successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3)
§ 31.12 DEPOSITING PUBLIC FUNDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to deposit funds
of the town, with any depository within Wayne County, Indiana, which meets the
appropriate criteria as a depository of public funds, pursuant to Indiana laws
and any regulations or guidelines set forth by the Indiana State Board of
Accounts and/or the Indiana Department of Local Government Finance.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to deposit funds
of the town, with TrustINdiana, provided that TrustINdiana remains an approved
depository for public funds of municipalities within Indiana, and provided that
the deposits thereto are pursuant to Indiana laws and any regulations or
guidelines set forth by the Indiana State Board of Accounts and/or the Indiana
Department of Local Government Finance.
(Res. 1-2011, passed 6-20-2011)
FISCAL OFFICER
§ 31.25 FISCAL OFFICER AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby preapproves and authorizes the Town Fiscal
Officer to make payment on the following types of claims prior to Town Council
allowance:
      (1)   Property or services purchased from the United States government;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments and connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advanced refunding is not prohibited
and the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount
advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds;
      (7)   Maintenance and service agreements;
      (8)   Leases and rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll obligations;
      (11)   State, federal, and county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in a town ordinance.
   (B)   The legislative body or the board having jurisdiction over the
allowance of the claim(s) shall review and allow the claim(s) at the body’s or
board’s next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of
the expense.
(Ord. 1-1996, passed 5-6-1996)
TOWN MANAGER
§ 31.35 CREATION OF POSITION.
   The Town Council may employ a Town Manager, to be the administrative head of
the town government, and the Town Council may fix his or her compensation and
terms of employment. Any Town Manager so employed shall serve at the pleasure
of the Town Council. The Town Council may not employ one of its members as the
Town Manager. The Town Manager must not be employed as a Town Manager of any
other town at the time of his or her employment with the Town of Hagerstown.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-7-2003)
§ 31.36 ABSENCE.
   The Town Council may appoint a qualified person to perform the duties of the
Town Manager whenever he or she is absent or unable to perform his or her
duties.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-7-2003)
§ 31.37 ISSUANCE OF WARRANTS OR EXECUTION OF NOTES OR BONDS PROHIBITED.
   The Town Council may not authorize the Town Manager to issue or execute
bonds, notes, or warrants of the town.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-7-2003)
§ 31.38 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Manager, under the direction of the Town Council, is
responsible for the administrative duties of the Town Council. Unless a written
order or ordinance of the legislative body provides otherwise, the Town
Manager:
      (1)   Shall attend the meetings of the Town Council and recommend actions
he or she considers advisable;
      (2)   Shall hire town employees according to the current wage and salary
ordinance, and procedures fixed by the Town Council or by statute;
      (3)   Shall suspend, discharge, remove, or transfer town employees, if
necessary, for the welfare of the town;
      (4)   May delegate temporary operational authority to an employee
responsible to him or her;
      (5)   Shall assist in administering and enforcing all ordinances, orders,
and resolutions of the Town Council;
      (6)   Shall see that all statutes and laws that are required to be
administered by the Town Council or a town officer subject to the control of
the Town Council are faithfully administered;
      (7)   Shall prepare budget estimates when required;
      (8)   Shall execute contracts on behalf of the town for materials,
supplies, services, or improvements, after the completion of the
appropriations, notice, and competitive bidding required by law;
      (9)   May receive service of summons on behalf of the town; and
      (10)   Shall perform all lawful duties requested of him or her by the
Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council may, at its discretion, amend the powers and duties
of the Town Manager at any time in the future.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-7-2003; Am. Ord. 9-2007, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 31.39 PARTICIPATION IN HEARING ON DISCIPLINARY CHARGES.
   The Town Manager may not serve as a member of any body that hears
disciplinary charges against:
   (A)   The Town Marshal; or
   (B)   A member of the Town Police Department.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-7-2003)
§ 31.40 TOWN MANAGER TO ASSUME POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF MUNICIPAL
OPERATIONS.
   The Town Code currently contains various references to a Director of
Municipal Operations or Manager. The Town Manager shall have all duties,
responsibilities, and authorities given to the Director of Municipal Operations
or Manager as it is used in other areas of the Town Code. The Town Manager
shall assume the role of the Director of Municipal Operations for the town,
including the powers and duties thereof, in addition to any other powers and
duties provided for in this chapter, as well as any other duties assigned to
the Town Manager by the Town Council.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-7-2003)
§ 31.41 STATUTORY BASIS.
   The position of Town Manager, and the provisions of the sections of the Town
Code regarding the Town Manager, are based on I.C. 36-5-5, and all provisions
of the Town Code shall be consistent with I.C. 36-5-5, and any future
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-7-2003)
CHAPTER 32: LEGISLATIVE
Section
   
32.01   Legislative authority
   
32.02   Council members; districts
   
32.03   Council meetings
   
32.04   Presiding officer
   
32.05   Duties of Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.06   Authority to fix compensation of officers and employees
   
32.07   Power of Council concerning ordinances
   
32.08   Town expenses
§ 32.01 LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council may make and establish the bylaws, ordinances, and
regulations, not repugnant to the laws of this state, as may be necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted it under the provisions of I.C. 36-5-1-
1 et seq. through 36-5-7-1 et seq., and to repeal, alter, or amend the same as
they shall seem to require; but every bylaw, ordinance, or regulation imposing
a penalty for its violation shall be published in accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-
10.
§ 32.02 COUNCIL MEMBERS; DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Two of the five Council members shall be elected for two-year terms in
the 1979 election, the terms to begin 1-1-1980, and the remainder of the
Council members shall be elected in the 1979 election for a term of four years
commencing 1-1-1980.
   (B)   The Council members whose terms will be for a period of two years
commencing 1-1-1980 shall be elected from Wards 2 and 4 of the town, and the
Council members whose term of office shall be for the period of four years
commencing 1-1-1980 shall be elected from Wards 1, 3, and 5 of the town.
   (C)   The successors of the Council members elected for two-year terms
commencing 1-1-1980 shall thereafter be elected every four years to serve four-
year terms. Those Council members elected to four-year terms commencing 1-1-
1980 shall thereafter be elected and serve four-year terms.
   (D)   After 1-1-1998, all candidates for the Office of Member of Town
Council shall be nominated at large from within the corporate boundaries of the
town. A candidate may not be nominated unless the candidate resides within the
corporate boundaries of the town at the time of nomination.
   (E)   All candidates for the Office of Council Member of the Town Council
shall reside within the corporate boundaries of the town, shall be elected to
serve as at large members of the Town Council, and shall forfeit the Office of
Town Council Member if the candidate or elected member ceases to reside within
the corporate boundaries of the Town of Hagerstown or resigns as a member.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3) (Ord. 6-1978, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1-1997, passed 4-7-1997; Am.
Ord. 3-1997, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 32.03 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Town Council shall be as established by
the Town Council from time to time, with any change thereof to be voted upon by
the Town Council in an open, public meeting. In any event, the Town Council
must have at least one regular meeting of the Town Council each month.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is not physically present at a
meeting of the governing body may participate in a meeting by any electronic
means of communication subject to the requirements and limitations of I.C. 5-
14-1.5-3.5 and I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.7, as permitted on April 20, 2021, and subject
to further amendments thereafter.
(Ord. 10-2006, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 10-2021, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 32.04 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed his or her term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
§ 32.05 DUTIES OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall attend all meetings of the Town Council and
record the proceedings thereof.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
§ 32.06 AUTHORITY TO FIX COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPENSATION. The total of all money paid to an elected town officer for
performing duties as a town officer, regardless of the source of funds from
which the money is paid.
   (B)   The Town Council members shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of
its own members, the Clerk-Treasurer, and the Marshal. The Town Council shall
provide reasonable compensation for other town officers and employees.
(I.C. 36-5-3-2(a), (b))
Statutory reference:
   Changing compensation in year for which it is fixed prohibited, see I.C. 36-
5-3-2(c)
   Compensation for additional services, see I.C. 36-5-3-2(d)
§ 32.07 POWER OF COUNCIL CONCERNING ORDINANCES.
   The Town Council members may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property, for the use of
the town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 32.08 TOWN EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby authorizes the Council to budget and
appropriate funds from the General Fund of the town, to pay the expenses of or
to reimburse town officials for expenses incurred in promoting the best
interests of Hagerstown, Indiana.
   (B)   The expenses may include, but not necessarily be limited to, rental of
meeting places, meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards, expenses incurred in
interviewing job applicants, expenses incurred in promoting industrial,
commercial, and residential development, expenses incurred in developing
relationships with other units of government, and any other expenses of a civic
or governmental nature deemed by the Town Council to be in the best interests
of the town.
(Ord. 2-1996, passed 5-6-1996)
CHAPTER 33: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Appointment of Marshal; term
   
33.02   Appointment of Deputy and Reserve Deputy Marshals; terms
   
33.03   Powers and duties of Marshal
   
33.04   Powers and duties of Deputy and Reserve Deputy Marshals
   
33.05   Compensation
   
33.06   State training requirements
§ 33.01 APPOINTMENT OF MARSHAL; TERM.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 33.02 APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTY AND RESERVE DEPUTY MARSHALS; TERMS.
   (A)   The Marshal is authorized to appoint Deputy Marshals and the
appointments are subject to approval by the Town Council. The Deputies shall
serve during the pleasure of the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6) (1963 Code, Ch. 2, § 3) (Ord. 2-l922, passed - -)
   (B)   The Marshal is authorized to appoint Reserve Deputy Marshals and the
appointments are subject to approval by the Town Council. The Reserve Deputy
Marshals may be discharged by the Marshal at any time.
(Ord. 3-1976, passed 8-30-1976; Am. Ord. 6-2012, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 33.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Marshal shall be the Chief Police Officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws. The Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed at him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction, and
detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches in peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
   (B)   In executing the orders of the Town Council and enforcing the
ordinances of the town and the laws of the state, the Marshal shall possess all
the common law and statutory powers of constables, except in relation to the
service of civil process; and any warrant of search or arrest, issued by any
judge, or magistrate, or justice of the peace of this state, may be executed in
any part thereof by the Marshal subject to laws of this state governing arrest
and bail.
   (C)   He or she shall be conservator of the peace in the town, and shall
arrest, without process, all persons who within his or her view commit any
crime or misdemeanor contrary to the statutes of this state or ordinances of
the town, and take them before the court having jurisdiction of the offense
with which the person is charged and retain them in custody until the cause of
the arrest has been investigated, and shall suppress all breaches of the peace
within his or her knowledge. Authority is given for him or her to call to his
or her aid the power of the town and to pursue and commit to jail all persons
who commit a jailable offense in violation of the statutes of this state or the
ordinances of the town.
   (D)   The Marshal shall have the power, and it shall be his or her duty, to
serve all process issuing either from the Town Court or the Town Council.
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DEPUTY AND RESERVE DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   (A)   The Deputies, in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing
the ordinances of the town, shall possess the powers and be subject to the
liabilities of the Marshal.
(1963 Code, Ch. 2, § 3) (Ord. 2-1922, passed - -)
   (B)   Reserve officer acceptance, training, and operational procedures shall
meet the current regulatory and operational directives of the Marshal and the
town for regular Deputy Marshals in current duty status, all as may be finally
determined by the Town Council. In executing the orders of the Town Council or
enforcing all laws and ordinances by direction of the Marshal, Reserve Deputy
Marshals shall possess the powers and be subject to the liabilities of the
Marshal.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6) (Ord. 3-1976, passed 8-30-1976)
§ 33.05 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Town Council shall regulate the amount of compensation to be
received by the Marshal and the Deputy Marshals.
   (B)   Reserve officer personnel shall not receive compensation for services
rendered while serving as Reserve Deputy Marshals.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2, 36-5-7-6) (Ord. 3-1976, passed 8-30-1976)
§ 33.06 STATE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS.
   The Marshal and the Deputy Marshals, but not the Reserve Deputy Marshals,
must meet the state training requirements of the Law Enforcement Training
Academy.
Statutory reference:
   Law enforcement training, see I.C. 5-2-1-1 et seq.
   Mandatory training for law enforcement officers, see I.C. 5-2-1-1 through 5-
2-1-15
CHAPTER 34: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Economic Development Commission
   
34.01   Purpose
   
34.02   Creation of Economic Development Commission
Board of Parks and Recreation
   
34.05   Board of Parks and Recreation
Board of Examination for Electrical Wiring
   
34.15   Establishment of Board
Board of Examination for Heating and Ventilation
   
34.20   Establishment of Board
Town Plan Commission
   
34.25   Town Plan Commission
Board of Aviation Commissioners
   
34.30   Board of Aviation Commissioners
Redevelopment Commission and Department
   
34.35   Establishment
   
34.36   Appointments
   
34.37   Qualifications
   
34.38   Terms
   
34.39   Meetings
   
34.40   Rules and bylaws
   
34.41   Majority vote
   
34.42   Department of Redevelopment
   
34.43   Administration of Department
 
   
34.99   Penalty
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 34.01 PURPOSE.
   Promoting and improving employment opportunities, sufficient diversification
of economic development facilities, economic stability, financing of economic
development facilities and pollution control facilities, and the general
economic development and welfare of the town would be in the best interests of
its citizens, therefore, a Department of Economic Development should be
established in support of the program.
(Ord. 3-1978, passed 12-3-1978)
§ 34.02 CREATION OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is created in the town a Department of Economic Development.
   (B)   The Department shall be under the control of the Development
Commission.
   (C)   The Development Commission shall consist of three members, to be known
as the Hagerstown Economic Development Commission; the members shall be
selected for appointment by the President of the Town Council as follows.
      (1)   One member shall be selected by the President of the Town Council,
one shall be nominated by the County Council, and one shall be nominated by the
Town Council. The members of the Commission shall take office upon their
appointment and their terms of office shall run the following number of years
from 2-1-1978:
         (a)   The Commissioner nominated by the Town Council - two years;
         (b)   The Commissioner nominated by the County Council - one year; and
         (c)   The Commissioner selected by the President - three years.
      (2)   The nominations and selection for Commissioners of the Development
Commission shall be made by the President, the Town Council, and the County
Council within 15 days after receiving notice from the Clerk-Treasurer that
they are required to make the nominations and selection. The selectee and
nominees shall be appointed by the President within ten days after receiving
the nominations. At the expiration of the respective terms of each of the
Commissioners originally appointed, their respective successors shall be
selected and nominated before the expiration of the term in the same manner as
the original appointee, and each succeeding member shall serve for a term of
four years. In the event that any governing body fails to make a nomination
within the time specified, the President may select and appoint a person
without a nomination. In the event any person appointed as Commissioner shall
fail to qualify as hereinafter provided within ten days after the mailing to
him or her of notice of his or her appointment, or if any member after
qualifying shall die, resign, or vacate the office, or be removed as
hereinafter provided, a new Commissioner shall be selected or nominated and
appointed to fill the vacancy in the same manner as the Commissioner in respect
to whom the vacancy occurred, and the Commissioners so appointed shall serve
for the remainder of the vacated term. Commissioners shall hold over after the
expiration of their terms until their respective successors have been duly
appointed and have qualified. The Commissioners shall receive no salaries but
shall be entitled to reimbursement for any expenses necessarily incurred in the
performance of their duty and a per diem allowance for each day he or she
attends a Commission meeting as set forth in I.C. 36-7-12-15(2).
   (D)   Each Commissioner, before entering upon his or her duties, shall take
and subscribe on oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon the
certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer. The Commission originally appointed shall meet within 30 days
after its appointment at a time and place designated by the President of the
Town Council for the purpose of organization and shall meet to reorganize in
the month of February of each succeeding year. The Commission shall elect one
of its members as President, one as Vice-President, and one as Secretary, each
of which officers shall serve from the day of his or her election until January
31 next following his or her election and until his or her successor is elected
and qualified.
   (E)   The Commission is authorized to adopt the bylaws, rules, and
regulations as it may deem necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings,
the carrying out of its duties, and the safeguarding of the funds and property
placed in its custody. Regular or special meetings shall be held at the time as
it may determine and upon the notice as it may fix, either by resolution or in
accordance with the provisions of the bylaws, rules, and regulations adopted. A
majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum and the concurrence of a
majority shall be necessary to authorize any action.
   (F)   The Commission shall have all powers, privileges, and duties as
provided by state statute and as granted by all acts of the General Assembly.
(Ord. 3-1978, passed 12-3-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Promotion of economic development, see I.C. 36-7-12-6 through 36-7-12-15
BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 34.05 BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   For provisions concerning the Board, see Chapter 93.
BOARD OF EXAMINATION FOR ELECTRICAL WIRING
§ 34.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD.
   For provisions concerning the Board, see Title XV.
BOARD OF EXAMINATION FOR HEATING AND VENTILATION
§ 34.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD.
   For provisions concerning the Board, see Title XV.
TOWN PLAN COMMISSION
§ 34.25 TOWN PLAN COMMISSION.
   For provisions concerning the Town Plan Commission, see §§
150.15 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Planning commissions, see I.C. 36-7-4-101 et seq.
BOARD OF AVIATION COMMISSIONERS
§ 34.30 BOARD OF AVIATION COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Aviation Commissioners, see §§
36.35 and
36.36 and
Chapter 96.
REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION AND DEPARTMENT
§ 34.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Redevelopment Commission, which shall control the
Department of Redevelopment. The Redevelopment Commission shall have all the
powers and authorities set for the commissions in I.C. 36-7-14, Redevelopment
of Blighted Areas and Economic Development Areas, and shall bear the duties and
responsibilities as are therein set out. The Redevelopment Commission shall
follow the rules and procedures as are now set out in I.C. 36-7-14, or as shall
be added by future amendments to the Indiana Code.
(Ord. 3-1992, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 34.36 APPOINTMENTS.
   The five members of the Redevelopment Commission shall be appointed as
follows: three by the President of the Town Council and two by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 3-1992, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 34.37 QUALIFICATIONS.
   A Redevelopment Commissioner must be at least 18 years old and a resident of
the town.
(Ord. 3-1992, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 34.38 TERMS.
   Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve for one year from the first day
of January after his or her appointment and until his or her successor is
appointed and after that from the date of their appointment until the first day
of January in the second year after their appointment. Redevelopment
Commissioners shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority, who may
summarily remove its appointees from office at any time.
(Ord. 3-1992, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 34.39 MEETINGS.
   The Redevelopment Commissioners shall hold a meeting for the purpose of
organization not later than 30 days after they are appointed and, after that,
on January 2 of each year.
(Ord. 3-1992, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 34.40 RULES AND BYLAWS.
   The Redevelopment Commissioners may adopt the rules and bylaws they consider
necessary for the proper conduct of their proceedings, the carrying out of
their duties, and the safeguarding of the money and property in their custody.
(Ord. 3-1992, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 34.41 MAJORITY VOTE.
   Concurrence of three members of the Commission is necessary to authorize any
action.
(Ord. 3-1992, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 34.42 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   There is hereby created a Department of Redevelopment which shall be
responsible, pursuant to statute, for the redevelopment of blighted areas and
economic development areas. All of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the town constitutes a taxing district for the purpose of levying
and collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes.
(Ord. 3-1992, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 34.43 ADMINISTRATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Department of Redevelopment shall be administered by the Redevelopment
Commission and a Director and any necessary staff may be appointed or employed
by the Redevelopment Commission with the approval of the Town Council and shall
serve at the pleasure of the Redevelopment Commission subject to Town Council
approval and budget limitations.
(Ord. 3-1992, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for any violation shall be the penalty prescribed by and set
forth in §
10.99 of
Chapter 10 (Rules of Construction; General Penalty) of Title I (General
Provisions) of the Town Code of Hagerstown, Indiana.
(Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
CHAPTER 35: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Work time
   
35.02   Seniority
   
35.03   Travel allowance
   
35.04   Vacations
   
35.05   Sick leave; sick pay
   
35.06   Employee insurance
   
35.07   Holidays
   
35.08   Bereavement leave
   
35.09   Employees not receiving fringe benefits
   
35.10   Salaries and overtime related considerations
   
35.11   Social security coverage
   
35.12   Public Employees’ Retirement Fund
   
35.13   Termination notice
   
35.14   Personal days
   
35.15   Compounding wage authorizations
   
35.16   Flex time
   
35.17   Nepotism policy
§ 35.01 WORK TIME.
   (A)   Job classification and a wage schedule for hourly paid employees are
established and shall continue each year hereafter until changed by the Town
Council. The following work periods are established for all the various full-
time employees of the town.
      (1)   All hourly paid employees except Deputy Marshals. Hourly workers
shall be compensated on the basis of a work period consisting of seven
consecutive days commencing at 0001 hours on the first scheduled workday and
terminating at 2400 hours on the seventh day thereafter. The scheduled work
week shall consist of 40 hours in the form of five, eight-hour shifts,
excluding not more than one-half hour for lunches. No overtime compensation
shall be given until after 40 hours has been worked in any work period, with
the overtime hours of work being measured in no less than one-half hour
increments.
      (2)   Deputy Marshals. Deputy Marshals shall be compensated on the basis
of a work period consisting of eight consecutive days commencing at 0001 hours
on the first scheduled workday and terminating at 2400 hours on the eighth day
thereafter. The scheduled work week shall consist of 48 hours in the form of
six, eight-hour shifts. No overtime compensation shall be given until 48 hours
has been worked in any work period, with the overtime hours of work being
measured in no less than one-half hour increments.
      (3)   Salaried employees. The following positions shall be deemed
salaried: Director of Municipal Operations; Clerk-Treasurer; Coordinator of
Municipal Operations; Chief Marshal; Judge of the Town Court; Clerk of the Town
Court and the Building Inspector. Further, the town hereby adopts federal
specifications for salaried employees as established by the Fair Labor
Standards Act, 29 U.S.C. § 201 (1982), in that salaried employees shall be paid
their set salary if they work more or less hours than the usual 40-hour
scheduled work week as set forth in 29 C.F.R. § 541.118(a).
   (B)   Overtime shall be paid to all hourly paid employees except Deputy
Marshals, at an hourly rate of time and one-half for hours worked over 40 in
any pay period, with double the regular hourly rate of the employee to be paid
for hours worked on the seventh day of the pay period or holidays as set forth
in §
35.07. All hourly paid employees, except Deputy Marshals, shall receive a
minimum of two hours pay for all emergency call outs.
   (C)   Overtime shall be paid to all hourly paid Deputy Marshals at time and
one-half for hours worked over 48 in any pay period, with double the regular
hourly rate of the Deputy Marshal to be paid for hours worked on scheduled days
off or holidays as set forth in §
35.07. All hourly paid employees shall receive a minimum of two-hours’ pay for
all emergency call outs.
   (D)   Two times an employee’s hourly rate or double time shall be calculated
in the following manner during work periods wherein the rate is authorized by
this chapter.
      (1)   The employee’s established hourly rate shall be multiplied by two.
The resulting sum shall be multiplied by the number of hours worked during the
authorized double time pay period. This sum shall be added to the employee’s
pay entitlements for the pay period the work was accomplished.
   (E)   The following definitions shall be applied to those person's whose
employment with the town is less than full-time employment, as set forth in
division (A) above.
      (1)   PART-TIME EMPLOYEES. A part-time employee of the town is an at-will
employee who shall work no more the 28 hours per week in a given week. Part-
time employees shall not be entitled to sick leave, vacation pay, holiday pay
or any other fringe benefits as otherwise may be applicable to full-time or
salaried employees of the town.
      (2)   TEMPORARY/SEASONAL EMPLOYEES. A temporary and/or seasonal employee
is an at-will employee of the town who performs labor or provides services on a
seasonal or temporary basis. These temporary and/or seasonal employees are
persons who are employed for a limited time only, usually of a short duration
or to perform a specific task that can be completed within a certain amount of
time. Temporary and/or seasonal employees are not entitled to sick leave,
vacation pay, holiday pay  or any other fringe benefits as otherwise may be
applicable to full-time or salaried employees of the town.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992; Am. Ord. 6-1996, passed 10-7-1996; Am. Ord. 1-
2003, passed 4-7-2003; Am. Ord. 3-2013, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 35.02 SENIORITY.
   (A)   Seniority shall be maintained during interdepartmental transfers for
the purpose of maintaining all benefits except hourly rate compensation. Hourly
rate compensation shall be derived by having the receiving supervisor evaluate
the transferees skills in relation to the job classification in which the
employee has transferred, and recommend an hourly compensation to the Council.
   (B)   Total years seniority (service) is defined as the number of years
service worked for the town. Total years service is computed by chronological
progressive service from the initial anniversary date of employment, and breaks
in service other than authorized absences shall not be credited toward this
total. A total of 12-months’ service shall constitute one year when computing
years of service.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992)
§ 35.03 TRAVEL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Mileage allowance.  All officers and employees who are authorized by
the Town Council, Town Marshal, Clerk-Treasurer, or Town Manager to use a
private automobile for town business shall be reimbursed for the mileage
actually used on town business in accordance with this section.
      (1)   There shall be no advanced expense payments from the town. No
officer or employee shall be reimbursed under division (A) above unless and
until the officer or employee presents a written record, with entries made at
the time of each trip, the record to include, at a minimum, the date of the
trip, the purpose of the travel, the destination, the miles driven for town
business, and the mileage on the odometer of the officer’s or employee’s
vehicle at the start of the trip and the mileage shown immediately on the
completion of the trip. The records shall be submitted on a form furnished by
the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The rate paid per mile shall be based on a rate approved by the
Town Council by separate resolution or action, and the rate may be a changing
rate based on a measurable standard, such as the current mileage reimbursement
rate being paid by the State of Indiana which is in place at the time of any
such travel.
   (B)   Meal reimbursement. All officers and employees who are authorized by
the Town Council, Town Marshal, Clerk-Treasurer, or Town Manager to travel to
and/or attend an event, meeting, or conduct business on behalf of the town
which takes the officer or employee outside of municipal limits to an extent or
nature, based on the determination of the authorizing person (Town Council,
Town Marshal, Clerk-Treasurer, or Town Manager), to warrant an allowance for
meals, the town shall be reimbursed for meals in accordance with this section.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may allow an advance for meal allowances based
on the allowable rate per meal as approved by the Town Council by separate
resolution or action. In the event that an advance for meal allowances is
provided, the officer or employee receiving the advance shall no later than two
weeks from the date that the allowance is provided present a written record to
the Clerk-Treasurer, the record to include, at a minimum, copies of the
receipts from the establishments from which the meal expense(s) were incurred,
reflecting a date(s) and location(s) consistent with the event, meeting, or
business for the town, the purpose of the travel, and the destination. The
records shall be submitted on a form furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer. The
officer or employee shall be entitled to keep the amount of the actual meal
expense(s) incurred and verified by receipt(s) or the amount of the advanced
meal allowance, whichever is less. In the event that the actual meal expense(s)
incurred and verified by receipt(s) is less than the advanced meal allowance,
the officer or employee must return the difference to the Clerk-Treasurer no
later than two weeks from the date that the allowance is provided, and in the
event that the officer or employee fails to do so, the difference shall be
deducted from the officer or employee’s next available check from the town
payable to the officer or employee.
      (2)   The rate paid per meal shall be based on a rate approved by the
Town Council by separate resolution or action.
   (C)   Toll road and parking expenses reimbursement.
      (1)   All officers and employees who are authorized by the Town Council,
Town Marshal, Clerk-Treasurer, or Town Manager to travel to and/or attend an
event, meeting, or conduct business on behalf of the town, shall be reimbursed
for toll road expenses and parking fee expenses incurred in such activities
based on the actual expense incurred.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer may allow a reasonable amount in advance for
such expenses, provided, however, no officer or employee shall be allowed to
keep any advance expenses or be reimbursed under division (C) above for the
expenses unless the officer or employee presents a written record to include,
at a minimum, copies of receipt(s) for the toll road expenses and/or parking
fee expenses, and the date(s) incurred, and the purpose of the travel or event.
The records shall be submitted on a form furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer. In
the event that an advance for the expenses is provided, the officer or employee
receiving the advance shall no later than two weeks from the date that the
allowance is provided present the aforementioned written record to the Clerk-
Treasurer, and, in the event that the actual expenses incurred and verified by
receipt(s) is less than the advanced allowance for the expenses, the officer or
employee must return the difference to the Clerk-Treasurer no later than two
weeks from the date that the allowance is provided. In the event that the
officer or employee fails to do so, the difference shall be deducted from the
officer or employee’s next available check from the town payable to the officer
or employee.
   (D)   Lodging. All officers and employees who are authorized by the Town
Council, Town Marshal, Clerk-Treasurer, or Town Manager to incur overnight
lodging expenses shall work with the authorizing authority to make arrangements
for the lodging facility to accept and use a purchase order, with the hotel
billing issued after the stay is completed. In the event that the officer or
employee works with the authorizing authority and the arrangements cannot be
made, then the authorizing authority may grant the officer or employee
permission to incur the expense for lodging to be reimbursed by the town,
subject to the limitations set forth in this section.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may allow a reasonable amount in advance for
lodging expenses, provided, however, no officer or employee shall be allowed to
keep any advance expenses or be reimbursed under division (D) above for the
expenses unless the officer or employee presents a written record to include,
at a minimum, copies of the receipts from the place of lodging, reflecting a
date(s) and location(s), and purpose of the lodging. The records shall be
submitted on a form furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer. In the event that an
advance for such expenses is provided, the officer or employee receiving the
advance shall no later than two weeks from the date that the allowance is
provided present the aforementioned written record to the Clerk-Treasurer, and,
in the event that the actual expenses incurred and verified by receipt(s) is
less than the advanced allowance for the expenses, the officer or employee must
return the difference to the Clerk-Treasurer no later than two weeks from the
date that the allowance is provided. In the event that the officer or employee
fails to do so, the difference shall be deducted from the officer or employee’s
next available check from the town payable to the officer or employee.
      (2)   The rates for reimbursement for lodging, if applicable, shall be
based on a rate approved by the Town Council by separate resolution or action.
   (E)   Other expenses. No other expenses may be reimbursed to officers or
employees unless the expenses are approved by the Town Council. In order to be
considered for reimbursement for any expense other than those listed
specifically above in divisions (A) through (D), the officer or employee shall
submit a written record to the Town Council requesting the reimbursement, the
record to include, at a minimum, copies of receipt(s) for purchase(s) or item
(s) for which the officer or employee is seeking reimbursement, the date(s)
incurred, and the purpose of the expense related to a town purpose. The records
shall be submitted on a form furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992; Am. Ord. 4-2008, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 35.04 VACATIONS.
   All salaried and hourly paid employees of the town, who are on the payroll
of the town in any year, shall receive vacation as follows.
   (A)   Employees who have completed six months of continuous service shall
receive a vacation of one week with pay which shall consist of the number of
days the employee is scheduled to work in a pay period excluding overtime
requirements.
   (B)   Employees who have completed one year of continuous service shall
receive vacations of two weeks with pay which shall consist of two times the
number of days the employee is scheduled to work in a pay period excluding
overtime requirements.
   (C)   Employees who have completed five years of continuous service shall
receive a vacation of three weeks with pay which shall consist of three times
the number of days the employee is scheduled to work in a pay period excluding
overtime requirements.
   (D)   Employees who have completed ten years or more of continuous service
shall receive a vacation of four weeks with pay which shall consist of four
times the number of days the employee is scheduled to work in a pay period
excluding overtime requirements.
   (E)   In no case shall the employee be entitled to more than one application
of on vacation allowance in one 365-day period.
   (F)   The employee’s beginning date of service shall be the anniversary date
to compute vacation allowances. The anniversary date shall be achieved by the
employee prior to receiving the applicable vacation allowed. Part-time service
shall not be computed as part of total service for vacation allowances. The
most recent date hired shall be considered the anniversary date for employees
with breaks in service wherein the employee had been employed from the active
list of town employees and was subsequently rehired.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992)
§ 35.05 SICK LEAVE; SICK PAY.
   All full-time employees of the town currently receiving benefits in addition
to wage compensation for hours worked, and who have completed a satisfactory
90-day orientation period and have been employed by the town for no less than
one year, shall receive sick leave and sick pay as follows.
   (A)   Employees shall receive five days sick leave with full pay each year,
with accumulation from year to year not to exceed a total accumulation of 15
days in all. A maximum of 15 days unused sick leave may be accumulated and
carried over from previous calendar years. No employee shall be granted paid
sick leave in excess of 20 days during any calendar year, except as provided
for and set forth herein under the requisites of extended sick leave. Any
unused sick leave accumulated in excess of 15 days shall expire and not be
carried over from year to year. Sick leave available in any calendar year shall
be granted only for sickness or injury of an employee or member of the
employees immediate family or household or for dental and medical appointments
scheduled by the employee.
   (B)   Hourly paid employees shall receive a maximum of eight-weeks’ extended
sick leave per year for absence due to personal sickness in excess of one week
when hospitalized or unable to work due to sickness, injury, or medical
condition certified by a physician approved by the Council, the extended sick
leave and pay to commence only after one week of any such continuous sickness
or injury.
   (C)   Salaried employees shall receive a maximum of ten-weeks’ extended sick
leave per year for absence due to personal sickness in excess of one week when
hospitalized or unable to work due to sickness, injury, or medical condition
certified by a physician approved by the Council, the extended sick leave to
commence after one week of any such continuous sickness or injury.
   (D)   Hourly paid employees of the town will be paid their regular wages for
not more than their designated sick leave per year for personal sickness,
injury, or medical condition when hospitalization or inability to physically
perform work is certified by a physician approved by the Town Council.
   (E)   The certification shall be in the form of a written document signed by
a physician, approved by the Town Council, and shall specify one of the
following categories and provide the information required.
      (1)   Restricted duty. Ability to perform work is limited to certain
activities with certain activities being prohibited. The prohibited activities
shall be specified on the certification.
      (2)   No duty. The employee does not have the physical or mental ability
to perform work, or the employees condition or circumstance may be considered
medical under authorized leave guidelines as set by law.
   (F)   Personnel must apply for extended sick leave by completing the
application form prescribed by Council, and complying with the preceding
requirements. The form will be forwarded to the Director of Municipal
Operations no less than one week prior to the time the benefit is requested to
commence.
   (G)   Personnel injured on the job in the performance of assigned work may
be entitled to either sick leave wage benefits or worker’s compensation
benefits. In no case when receiving sick leave benefits shall the employee be
entitled to receive both benefits simultaneously. Any monies received from
worker’s compensation during the period of receiving sick leave benefits shall
be immediately surrendered to the Clerk-Treasurer for proper disposition. Once
sick leave benefits have been exhausted, the employee shall then be entitled to
receive the worker’s compensation wage benefit.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992; Am. Ord. 8-2004, passed 12-6-2004; Am. Ord. 7-
2005, passed - -2005)
§ 35.06 EMPLOYEE INSURANCE.
   Life, accident, medical, hospitalization, and dental insurance shall be
provided to eligible employees in amounts and with the insurance companies, as
shall be determined and approved by the Town Council, as set forth in the
minutes and records of the Council, with the policies to be on deposit with the
Clerk-Treasurer and copies of same to be provided to employees or made
available to them upon request.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992)
§ 35.07 HOLIDAYS.
   New Year’s Day, Presidents’ Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans’ Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas
Day shall be authorized by the Town Council as paid holidays. Each full-time
employee currently receiving benefits, in addition to wage compensation for
hours worked, and who has completed a satisfactory 90-day orientation period,
shall be excused from work and receive eight hours of straight time pay at the
employee’s set rate, and further, all the employees required to work on any of
the holidays shall be paid at a rate of two times the employee’s set hourly
rate for the hours worked on the holiday. If one of the preceding holidays
falls upon another Town Council authorized holiday or the employee’s scheduled
day off, the day following or preceding the holiday or day off shall be
administratively set by the Town Manager as the day of observance.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992; Am. Ord. 5-1999, passed 10-18-1999; Am. Ord. 8-
2004, passed 12-6-2004; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed - -2005)
§ 35.08 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   All employees of the town shall receive bereavement leave with pay up to a
maximum of three days on the workdays immediately following the death of the
employee’s spouse, child, parent, sibling, or grandparent of the employee or
the employee’s spouse, with no accumulation of the leave from year to year,
except that town employees shall not receive bereavement leave during periods
of absence from work for any reason, including layoffs, sick leave, holidays,
vacations, and any other authorized or unauthorized absence.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992)
§ 35.09 EMPLOYEES NOT RECEIVING FRINGE BENEFITS.
   (A)   A school-crossing guard shall be paid a sum set by the Town Council
for each day the Hagerstown Elementary School is in session, provided the
school crossing guard performs morning and afternoon duties as required. No
other benefits shall apply.
   (B)   The Park Superintendent shall be paid a yearly salary as prescribed by
Town Council resolution payable monthly without other benefits in accordance
with job descriptions and other duties directed by the Park Board.
   (C)   Temporary employees shall be paid at an hourly rate set by the Town
Council, and for the duration as determined necessary by the Town Council to
meet temporary labor requirements. No other benefits shall apply.
   (D)   Part time communications specialists each year hereinafter shall be
paid weekly at the hourly rate established in the compensation schedules for
duty scheduled by the Chief Marshal and performed by the employee. The
scheduled duty shall not be more than 32 hours in any one pay period. Duty in
excess of that so scheduled for communications specialists shall be compensated
for as overtime at one and one-half times the regular rate for each excess hour
of work, with no other compensation or benefits for regular or overtime work.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992)
§ 35.10 SALARIES AND OVERTIME RELATED CONSIDERATIONS.
   The following positions are deemed to be excluded or exempt from overtime or
compensation time.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall, as of January 1 of each calendar year,
receive an annual salary payable weekly as prescribed by Town Council
resolution, of which a specified amount shall be paid from the civil town
budget and the balance by the Hagerstown Utilities apportioned as determined by
the Town Council and shall be subject to call without extra compensation unless
approved by resolution of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall, as of January 1 of each calendar year, receive
an annual salary payable weekly as prescribed by Town Council resolution and
shall be subject to call without extra compensation unless approved by
resolution of the Town Council.
   (C)   The Director of Municipal Operations shall, as of January 1 of each
calendar year, receive an annual salary payable weekly as prescribed by Town
Council resolution and shall be subject to call without extra compensation
unless approved by resolution of Town Council.
   (D)   The Coordinator of Municipal Operations shall, as of January 1 of each
calendar year, receive an annual salary payable weekly as prescribed by Town
Council resolution and shall be subject to call without extra compensation
unless approved by resolution of Town Council.
   (E)   The Building Inspector shall, as of January 1 of each calendar year,
receive an annual salary payable monthly as prescribed by Town Council
resolution with no additional benefits or allowances unless approved by Town
Council.
   (F)   The Judge of the Town Court shall, as of January 1 of each calendar
year, receive an annual salary payable monthly as prescribed by Town Council
resolution with no additional benefits or allowances unless approved by the
Town Council.
   (G)   The Clerk of the Town Court shall be appointed by the Judge of the
Town Court and shall, as of January 1 of each calendar year, receive an annual
salary payable monthly as prescribed by Town Council resolution with no
additional benefits or allowances unless approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992)
§ 35.11 SOCIAL SECURITY COVERAGE.
   (A)   The Town Council elects coverage under the Social Security Coverage
for Public Employees Act, as provided by I.C. 5-10.1-1-1 through 5-10.1-6-4, as
amended. Coverage shall be effective as of 1-1-1952. All positions not covered
by an existing retirement plan are designated as those which are to be covered.
   (B)   For the intent and purpose of carrying out the provisions of Title II,
SS 218 of the Federal Social Security Act and all amendments thereof, the
agreement entered into between the state agency with the approval of the
governor and the Social Security Administrator is made a part of this section
and shall be termed as an agreement between this town and the Social Security
Administrator. Active membership shall begin on 1-1-1952.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992)
§ 35.12 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The town elects to become a participant in the Public Employees’
Retirement Fund as established by I.C. 5-10.3-2-1 et seq. and all acts
amendatory and supplemental thereto.
   (B)   The town agrees to make the required contributions under the Public
Employees’ Retirement Fund Act established by I.C. 5-10.3-2-1 et seq. and all
amending and supplementary acts.
   (C)   All eligible town employees and eligible elected officials as defined
in I.C. 5-10.1-1-1, as amended, are declared to be covered by the fund.
      (1)   Note of the classification or positions specified in this division
are compensated on a fee basis of an emergency nature, or in a part-time
category.
      (2)   The active participating membership of the town shall begin on 1-1-
1966.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992)
§ 35.13 TERMINATION NOTICE.
   (A)   Any employee who gives less than two-weeks’ advance notice of their
intent to terminate employment with the town or who is terminated by the town,
shall be entitled only to their wages accrued in the pay period(s) falling
between the last pay period wherein the employee received wages in the form of
a payroll check and the last day the employee performed scheduled work for the
town. No other benefits provided by the town that may be accruable or payable
shall be authorized or allowed in the preceding circumstances.
   (B)   Any employee who is absent from scheduled duties for five consecutive
scheduled work days without notifying the employees immediate supervisor or the
office of the Director of Municipal Operations and without receiving approval
for the absence from the supervisor or office shall be deemed to have
terminated the employee’s employment with the town and all wages and benefits
shall thereupon immediately cease.
   (C)   Events requiring temporary or permanent personnel reductions shall be
conducted by evaluating each affected employee’s job performance and total
years of service, with final determination to be made on recommendation of
supervisors and approval by the Town Council.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992; Am. Ord. 8-2004, passed 12-6-2004; Am. Ord. 7-
2005, passed - -2005)
§ 35.14 PERSONAL DAYS.
   (A)   Each full-time employee currently receiving benefits in addition to
wage compensation for hours worked, and who has completed a satisfactory 90-day
orientation period and has been employed by the town for no less than one year,
shall be entitled to four days per calendar year with pay for absences deemed
by the employee as personal days.
   (B)   The personal days shall not be cumulative from year to year.
   (C)   Whenever possible, an employee shall schedule personal days in advance
of using them.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992; Am. Ord. 8-2004, passed 12-6-2004; Am. Ord. 7-
2005, passed - -2005)
§ 35.15 COMPOUNDING WAGE AUTHORIZATIONS.
   Wages paid for authorized absences occurring within the same 24-hour period
may not be claimed simultaneously in order to receive a greater wage benefit
than is authorized by Town Council ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992; Am. Ord. 6-1996, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 35.16 FLEX TIME.
   (A)   Supervisors may, at their discretion, cause hourly paid employees
under their supervision to begin work earlier or later and or split scheduled
hours to satisfy the usual daily work requirement standard of eight hours.
   (B)   Salaried employees who are exempt from overtime compensation and are
required to maintain varied mandatory schedules during the day, evenings,
holidays, and weekends, shall be granted the latitude to schedule flex time
commensurate with the varied schedules in maintaining their required time in
the workplace. Flex time is not limited to being taken within the pay period
incurred. Department heads shall have the authority to monitor and approve
flexible schedules.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed - -1992)
§ 35.17 NEPOTISM POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee of the town
who is in a position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s
employment, including making decisions about work assignments, compensation,
grievances, advancement, or performance evaluation. The term does not include
the responsibilities of the executive, legislative body or fiscal body of the
town, as provided by law, to make decisions regarding salary ordinances,
budgets, or personnel policies of the town.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the town on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office of the town. The term includes an
individual who is a party to an employment contract with the town.
      RELATIVE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A parent or stepparent;
         (c)   A child (natural or adopted) or stepchild;
         (d)   A brother, half-brother, sister, half-sister, step-brother, or
step-sister;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle; and/or
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
   (B)   Anti-nepotism policy regarding employment matters. In order to comply
with state law and in order to avoid potential conflicts of interest,
misunderstandings and appearances of favoritism, impropriety or bias, the
legislative body has adopted the following policy to establish certain minimum
requirements regarding the employment of relatives by any department, office or
elected official of the town. Except as otherwise provided herein, individuals
who are relatives may not be employed by the town in a position that results in
one relative being in the direct line of supervision of the other relative.
Accordingly, this policy generally prohibits employment of more than one family
member when that employment causes either two members of the same family being
employed in the same department, or any form of reporting or supervisory
relationship between family members.
   (C)   Change in relationship; procedure to comply. If, as a result of
marriage, birth, adoption, the creation of other family relationships, election
results, or hiring decisions, two or more relatives (who are current employees
of any office or department in the town) are inadvertently placed into one of
the two categories described in the division above, then the relatives shall
determine which of the relatives will seek to transfer to another job or
otherwise take action to comply with this policy. The town shall have no
obligation to either create a new position or job opening for any current
employee, or transfer any current employee to a new or existing position or job
opening if the individual does not meet all selection standards or fulfill all
qualifications deemed to be required for the position by the town. If the
relatives are unable to determine which individual(s) will seek to transfer
into another position or otherwise take action to comply with this policy, then
the Town Council will make a determination to ensure the town’s compliance with
this policy. A determination fo the Town Council may include a decision to
transfer, reassign, terminate or otherwise take action regarding one of the
employees to ensure compliance with this policy. A decision of the Town Council
may be based upon a variety of factors and criteria, including, but not limited
to: staffing and other needs; the jobs being performed by the employees and the
necessity of each job relative to the continued operation of the town
government; and each employee’s skills, job knowledge, prior work history, job
performance and abilities.
   (D)   Town employees related to elected officers; promotions. In the event
that an individual is an existing employee of the town to whom the provisions
of this policy apply on the date the individual’s relative begins serving a
term of an elected office of the town, the individual may not remain employed
by the town and maintain the individual’s position or rank if the circumstances
result in the elected officer being in the direct line of supervision of the
existing employee. In this event, the employee who is not an elected official
will be required to take action to comply with this policy.
   (E)   Annual certification by elected officers. Each elected officer of the
town shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for perjury,
that the officer has not violated this policy or I.C. 36-1-20.2. Each officer
shall submit the certification to the Town Council not later than December 31
of each year.
   (F)   Interpretation of policy. This policy is intended to implement the
minimum requirements necessary to comply with I.C. 36-1-20.2, as the same may
be amended from time to time. If and to the extent this policy is not in
compliance with I.C. 36-1-20.2, this policy shall be deemed to include any
terms not otherwise included herein, and to exclude the terms not otherwise
excluded herefrom, as are necessary to cause this policy to implement the
minimum requirements set forth in I.C. 36-1-20.2. To the extent this policy is
inconsistent with any provisions of state law, including, without limitation,
I.C. 36-1-20.2, the other provisions of state law shall control. If any portion
of this policy is held or deemed to be, or is, invalid, illegal, inoperable or
unenforceable, the validity, legality, operability and enforceability of the
remaining portions of this policy shall not be affected, and this policy shall
be construed as if it did not contain such invalid, illegal, inoperable or
unenforceable portion.
   (G)   Right to review application of policy and make amendments.
      (1)   The town reserves the right to review the specific facts of any
case where this policy is implicated and make exceptions on a case-by-case
basis consistent with the provisions of state law, including, without
limitation, the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2. Furthermore, the town reserves
the right to modify or amend the provisions of this policy from time to time
consistent with the provisions of state law, including, without limitation, the
provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2.
      (2)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation,
compliance and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation
and may result in discipline, including termination of an employee or a
transfer from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An
elected official who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation,
with the mandated certifications, may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (H)   Anti-nepotism policy regarding town contracts. In order to comply with
state law and in order to avoid potential conflicts of interest,
misunderstandings and appearances of favoritism, impropriety or bias, the
legislative body has adopted the following policy to establish certain minimum
requirements regarding contracts between any department, office or elected
official of the town, and relatives (or businesses wholly or partially owned by
relatives) of elected officials of the town. Except as otherwise provided
herein, the town may enter into or renew a contract for the procurement of
goods and services or a contract for public works with either: an individual
who is a relative of an elected official, or a business entity that is wholly
or partially owned by a relative of an elected official; only if the
requirements of this policy are satisfied and the contract would not result in
a violation of state law by the elected official.
   (I)   Procedure to comply. Notwithstanding any provisions of this policy and
I.C. 36-1-21, the town may enter into or renew a contract with an individual or
business entity described in the paragraph above only if the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The elected official shall file with the Town Council a full
disclosure statement, which must:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town;
         (c)   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity with whom the town seeks to contract or from whom
the town seeks to purchase;
         (d)   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
         (e)   Be submitted to the legislative body of the town and be accepted
by the legislative body of the town in a public meeting of the legislative body
prior to final action on the contract or purchase; and
         (f)   Be filed, not later than 15 days after the final action on the
contract or purchase, with the State Board of Accounts, and the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of Wayne County, Indiana.
      (2)   The appropriate agency of the town shall file a certified statement
with the Town Council: that the contract amount or purchase price was the
lowest amount or price bid or offered; or setting forth the reasons why the
vendor or contractor was selected.
      (3)   The town satisfies any other contracting requirements under I.C. 5-
22 (concerning the purchase of goods or services) or I.C. 36-1-12 (concerning
public works).
      (4)   The elected official also complies with the disclosure provisions
required by state law, if applicable.
   (J)   Annual certification by elected officers. Each elected officer of the
town shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for perjury,
that the officer has not violated this policy or I.C. 36-1-21. Each officer
shall submit the certification to the Town Council not later than December 31
of each year.
   (K)   Interpretation of policy. This policy is intended to implement the
minimum requirements necessary to comply with I.C. 36-1-21, as the same may be
amended from time to time. If and to the extent this policy is not in
compliance with I.C. 36-1-21, this policy shall be deemed to include the terms
not otherwise included herein, and to exclude the terms not otherwise excluded
herefrom, as are necessary to cause this policy to implement the minimum
requirements set forth in I.C. 36-1-21. To the extent this policy is
inconsistent with any provision of state law, including, without limitation,
I.C. 36-1-21, such other provisions of state law shall control. If any portion
of this policy is held or deemed to be, or is, invalid, illegal, in operable or
unenforceable, the validity, legality, operability and enforceability of the
remaining portions of this policy shall not be affected, and this policy shall
be construed as if it did not contain such invalid, illegal, inoperable or
unenforceable portion.
   (L)   Right to review application of policy and make amendments. The town
reserves the right to review the specific facts of any case where this policy
is implicated and make exceptions on a case by case basis consistent with, the
provisions of state law, including, without limitation, the provisions of I.C.
36-1-21. Furthermore, the town reserves the right to modify or amend the
provisions of this policy from time to time consistent with the provisions of
state law, including, without limitation, the provisions of I.C. 36-1-21.
(Res. 6-2012, passed 12-17-2012)
CHAPTER 36: DEPARTMENTS
Section
Municipal Electric Department
   
36.01   Municipal Electric Department
Municipal Water Department
   
36.05   Municipal Water Department
Sewage Treatment Works Department
   
36.10   Sewage Treatment Works Department
Department of Parks and Recreation
   
36.15   Department of Parks and Recreation
Fire Department
   
36.20   Name; purpose
   
36.21   Officers and duties
   
36.22   Selection of new members
   
36.23   Equipment
   
36.24   Duties of firefighters
   
36.25   Compensation; termination
   
36.26   Associate membership
Department of Aviation
   
36.35   Establishment
   
36.36   Members
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
§ 36.01 MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
   For provisions concerning this Department, see
Chapter 51.
MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 36.05 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT.
   For provisions concerning this Department, see
Chapter 52.
SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS DEPARTMENT
§ 36.10 SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   For provisions concerning this Department, see
Chapter 53.
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 36.15 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   For provisions concerning this Department, see
Chapter 93.
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.20 NAME; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The name of this organization will be the Hagerstown-Jefferson
Township Volunteer Fire Department.
   (B)   The purposes of this organization are as follows:
      (1)   To respond to all fire alarms and any other assigned emergencies
named by the Chief, and to extinguish, overhaul, salvage, investigate, and
protect until properly relieved, all reported fires in Hagerstown and Jefferson
Township, Wayne County, Indiana;
      (2)   To raise the level of the fire service for Hagerstown and Jefferson
Township and present a united and concentrated front in any efforts to petition
the two governments for materials and equipment, or for the institution of
adequate laws for promotion of fire prevention, fire safety, the protection of
life and property, and economy in performance; and
      (3)   To promote an esprit de corps among the individual firefighters of
the Hagerstown-Jefferson Township Fire Department, that training may be
regarded as a desire rather than a task.
§ 36.21 OFFICERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Officers.
      (1)   The Chief of the Department shall be appointed by the Town Council,
and will assume the rank officer title of Chief.
      (2)   The Assistant Chief of the Department shall be appointed by the
Chief, and will assume the rank officer title of Assistant Chief.
      (3)   The rank officer of Captain shall be appointed by the Chief, with
duties to be assigned by the Chief Officer.
      (4)   The rank officer of Lieutenant shall be appointed by the Chief,
with duties to be assigned by the Chief Officer.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Chief of the Department shall be responsible for all actions of
the Department. At business meetings, the Chief shall be the presiding officer
and perform those duties that commonly belong to the office of President or
Chairperson.
      (2)   The Assistant Chief shall act as assistant to, and in the absence
of, the Chief Officer.
      (3)   Other officers will be given specific assignments by the Chief.
§ 36.22 SELECTION OF NEW MEMBERS.
   (A)   Any person interested in becoming a member of the Hagerstown-Jefferson
Township Volunteer Fire Department shall obtain an application from the Chief
Officer, which he or she shall properly fill out and sign. These applications
shall be used in filling all vacancies.
   (B)   As vacancies occur, the Chief will convene his or her membership
advisory group of officers, weigh all possibilities and probabilities, and
after due deliberation, the Chief will make an appointment.
   (C)   The appointment will be made under a 90-day period of probation during
which time the individual will be observed and tested as to his or her ability
to adapt to the rigors of fire prevention, fire extinguishment, fire overhaul,
fire investigation, maintenance, and esprit de corps.
§ 36.23 EQUIPMENT.
   Each firefighter will be furnished sufficient protective equipment and
physical equipment, as budgets will allow, for his or her performance of §
36.22(C).
§ 36.24 DUTIES OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Each firefighter shall respond to all alarms, monthly business
meetings, monthly and called training meetings, and other meetings ordered by
the Chief, unless excused by a rank officer. Failure to comply may mean that
the Chief will call a conference with the individual, or with a board of rank
officers, concerning negligence of duty.
   (B)   Each firefighter shall be expected to seize every opportunity to
improve his or her skills and ability as a firefighter, to better acquaint
himself or herself with the equipment, to better his or her efficiency as a
firefighter, and for the safety of himself and herself and his or her fellow
firefighters.
§ 36.25 COMPENSATION; TERMINATION.
   (A)   Volunteer firefighters receive no pay. Firefighters will be
compensated for the loss and maintenance of clothing, to the extent of an
annual budgetary allowance distributed monthly, plus any mandated allotment
from other sources.
   (B)   Any firefighter’s services will be terminated only after due process.
§ 36.26 ASSOCIATE MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   After 15 years of service as a firefighter, and after he or she has
been honorarily retired from active service as a member of the Hagerstown-
Jefferson Township Fire Department, a firefighter may request status as an
Associate Member of the Department.
   (B)   All requests shall, first, be reviewed by a committee of rank
officers. If associate membership is granted, the following shall apply.
      (1)   The associate member will receive no formal clothing allowance and
will not be required to attend meetings, though he or she may do so.
      (2)   He or she will not be required to answer alarms.
      (3)   It is hoped that he or she might respond, upon request, with his or
her expertise, experience, and particular abilities, for consultation, training
periods, or emergency duties.
      (4)   He or she shall be responsible for his or her own IVFA Associate
dues. He or she shall receive all benefits, and may be responsible for all
requirements promulgated by the Indiana Volunteer Firefighter’s Association as
an associate member.
DEPARTMENT OF AVIATION
§ 36.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Department of Aviation of the town is created and established with full
power and authority to act as provided in I.C. 8-22-2-l et seq. The Department
of Aviation shall be under the control of a Board of four members, to be known
as the Board of Aviation Commissioners. The Board shall be constituted and
appointed and have those powers and duties as provided by I.C. 8-22-2-l et seq.
(Ord. 1979-10A, passed 9-4-1979)
§ 36.36 MEMBERS.
   The President of the Town Council is authorized and empowered to appoint, in
the manner provided by I.C. 8-22-2-l et seq., the members of the Board of
Aviation Commissioners. The Board of Aviation Commissioners is authorized and
empowered to do any and all things necessary for the promotion of the business
of the Department of Aviation.
(Ord. 1979-10A, passed 9-4-1979)
CHAPTER 37: TOWN COURT
Section
   
37.01   Establishment
   
37.02   Jurisdiction
   
37.03   Judge of the Town Court
   
37.04   Ordinance Violations Bureau
§ 37.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 33-35-1-1, there is hereby
established the Town Court of Hagerstown, Indiana.
   (B)   The Town Court, as established in this section, shall come into
existence on 1-1-1984.
(Ord. 9-1982, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 37.02 JURISDICTION.
   This Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all violations of the
ordinances of the town, and shall have jurisdiction of all misdemeanors and all
infractions in accordance with I.C. 33-35-2-8.
(Ord. 9-1982, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 37.03 JUDGE OF THE TOWN COURT.
   (A)   Election. On 11-8-1983 election of a judge of the Town Court shall be
held. Thereafter, election of the judge shall be held in the general election
every fourth year after 1983.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The judge of the Town Court shall exercise the
powers and perform the duties as provided for in I.C. 33-35.
   (C)   Salary. The salary of the judge of the Town Court shall be fixed by
the Town Council by ordinance as now provided by law for the fixing of the
salaries of other elected town officers.
(Ord. 9-1982, passed 11-15-1982; Am. Ord. 4-1983, passed 11-7-1983)
§ 37.04 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   The establishment of an Ordinance Violations Bureau is authorized.
   (B)   The appointed Clerk of the Town Court shall also be the Ordinance
Violations Clerk.
   (C)   The appointment of Deputy Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk is
authorized.
(Ord. 4-1985, passed 3-18-1985)
CHAPTER 38: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
38.01   Created
   
38.02   Town Clerk-Treasurer to administer Bureau
   
38.03   Town Clerk-Treasurer to receive appearances, waivers, admissions, and
payment of civil penalties
   
38.04   Penalty schedule
§ 38.01 CREATED.
   There shall be created an Ordinance Violations Bureau pursuant to I.C. 33-
36-2-1 through 33-36-2-3 and 33-36-3-1 through 33-36-3-7, as amended, for the
town.
(Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-18-1990)
§ 38.02 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER TO ADMINISTER BUREAU.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the Violations
Clerk, who administers the Bureau.
(Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-18-1990)
§ 38.03 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE APPEARANCES, WAIVERS, ADMISSIONS, AND
PAYMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer and the Clerk’s staff, as the Clerk’s agents, shall
accept written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations, and
payment of civil penalties in the amount and for the violation as provided
below.
(Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-18-1990)
§ 38.04 PENALTY SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following schedule of ordinances and Hagerstown code provisions
shall be subject to the jurisdictions of the Ordinance Violations Bureau and
the first violations within a calendar year of the ordinances and code
provisions shall be subject to the civil penalty set forth.
Ordinance or Code Provisions Civil Penalty
Ordinance or Code Provisions                                      Civil Penalty
§    Obedience to police officers                                $100
70.07
§    Roller skating or toy vehicles                              $25
71.26
§    Signs at hazardous or congested places (parking)            $25
72.01
§    Signs adjacent to school property or other designated       $25
72.02 places (parking)
§    Stopping, standing, or parking on streets or alleys         $25
72.03
§    Parallel standing or parking                                $25
72.04
§    Standing or parking to display, wash or repair vehicles     $25
72.05
§    Areas where stopping, standing or parking prohibited
72.06
      Overtime parking                                            $25
      Left side parking (against traffic flow)                    $25
      Parking within fire lane                                    $50
      Within 30 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection
      constituting a passenger bus stop on regularly operated bus $25
      routes within the town
      Where official signs or markings prohibit stopping          $25
      Parked as to obstruct the flow of traffic                   $25
      Double parking                                              $25
      Parking on sidewalk                                         $25
      Withing handicap designated area, no placard                $50
§    Pedestrians subject to traffic control signs                $25
73.01
§    Riding bicycle on sidewalk in business district             $50
74.09
§    Allowing dog(s) to run at large                             $50
90.13
§    Resisting animal enforcement                                $100
90.18
§    Dogs that habitually bark, yelp or howl                     $50
90.22
§    Violating cemetery visiting regulations                     $50
91.05
 
Ordinance or Code Provisions Civil Penalty
Ordinance or Code Provisions                    Civil Penalty
§      Property to be kept free from rubbish   $50
92.02
§      Littering                               $50
92.03
§      Open burning                            $50
92.11
§      Nonregulated (garage sale prohibitions) $25
95.03
§      Distribution of handbills and circulars $25
130.03
§      Killing or injuring birds               $50
130.04
§      Throwing or shooting missiles           $25
130.05
§      Curfew violations                       $50
131.01
Ch. 131 Permitting curfew violations            $50
§      First offense                           Up to $50
131.03
        Second offense                          Up to $100
        Third offense                           Up to $250
        Fourth and subsequent offenses          Up to $500
§      Loitering                               $100
131.04
 
   (B)   The second admission or judgement of a violation of the same ordinance
or code provision of one scheduled above within a calendar year shall be
subject to the penalty set forth above plus $25 as the total civil penalty. Any
third admission or judgement of a violation of the same ordinance or code
provision of one scheduled above within a calendar year shall be subject to the
penalty set forth above plus $50 as the total civil penalty.
(Ord. 1-1990, passed 6-18-1990; Am. Ord. 2-2012, passed 3-5-2012; Am. Ord. 1-
2015, passed 2- -2015)
CHAPTER 39: PURCHASING
Section
Purchasing Rules
   
39.01   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
39.02   Purchase of supplies and services produced or manufactured by the
Department of Correction
Purchasing Agency
   
39.10   Designation of purchasing agency
   
39.11   Powers and duties
   
39.12   Acts of purchasing agency
General Provisions
   
39.20   Credit cards
PURCHASING RULES
§ 39.01 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town
purchases and shall be purchased, unless the Town Council determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonable
available quantities;
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparable priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 7-1998, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 39.02 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES PRODUCED OR MANUFACTURED BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION.
   (A)   Supplies and services produced or manufactured by the Department of
Correction as listed in the Department’s printed catalog shall be specified for
all town purchases unless the supplies and services cannot be furnished in a
timely manner.
   (B)   Supplies and services purchased from the Department of Correction
must:
      (1)   Meet the specifications and needs of the town; and
      (2)   Be purchased at a fair market price.
   (C)   If these requirements are not met, the town is not required to
purchase supplies from the Department of Correction.
(Ord. 7-1998, passed 8-17-1998)
PURCHASING AGENCY
§ 39.10 DESIGNATION OF PURCHASING AGENCY.
   The Town Council is designated as the purchasing agency for the town.
(Ord. 6-1998, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 39.11 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized under
I.C. 5-22, as may be amended, supplemented, or recodified from time to time by
law, or as amended or supplemented from time to time by ordinance adopted by
the Town Council. Additionally, the purchasing agency may adopt, from time to
time, policies and procedures for purchasing to further supplement this
chapter.
(Ord. 6-1998, passed 8-17-1998; Am. Ord. 1-2007, passed 2-5-2007)
Editor’s note:
   For purchasing policies and procedures see Res. 1-2007, passed 5-7-2007.
§ 39.12 ACTS OF PURCHASING AGENCY.
   The purchasing agency shall act as purchasing agency for every agency,
board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, and department. The Clerk-
Treasurer and Town Manager shall be purchasing agents of the purchasing agency,
which is the Town Council. In addition to the Clerk-Treasurer and the Town
Manager, the Town Council may designate in writing, from time to time, any
employee of the town as a purchasing agent for the town.
(Ord. 6-1998, passed 8-17-1998; Am. Ord. 1-2007, passed 2-5-2007)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.20 CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The Town Council authorizes the procurement of one credit card for use
by, and under the control of, the Town Manager for the purpose of travel and
related expenses that have been approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council authorizes the procurement of, and control of use by,
the Clerk-Treasurer, one credit card to facilitate the purchase of
miscellaneous items necessary for the operation of the various Town
departments. These purchases will be subject to the same provisions for
approval of purchase and typical payment procedures as if purchase orders were
being issued prior to the purchase with an invoice issued after receipt, with
any use to be conducted in such a fashion as to comply with any requirements of
the Indiana State Board of Accounts or appropriate state auditing agency.
   (C)   Payment for purchases made with an authorized credit card will not be
made on the basis of a statement or credit card slip only. Supporting documents
such as paid bills and receipts must be available and furnished to the fiscal
officer. It shall be the responsibility of the person who is in control of the
credit card, as referenced above by position (either the Clerk-Treasurer or the
Town Manager, as the appropriate case may be), to provide the Town Council with
the appropriate supporting documentation in a timely fashion.
   (D)   As with all purchases, final approval for payment rests with Town
Council. In an attempt to avoid late payment fees, reasonable effort should be
made by the authorized holders of credit cards to obtain statement billing
cycles that permit prior review and approval by Town Council members before
payment is made.
   (E)   Any interest or penalty incurred due to late filing or furnishing of
documentation by an office or employee may be the responsibility of that
officer or employee.
   (F)   Annual fees for a credit card are not permitted without prior approval
by the Town Council.
   (G)   Use of an authorized credit card for personal expenses is expressly
prohibited.
(Ord. 9-2005, passed 8-1-2005)
CHAPTER 40: FUNDS
Section
   
40.01   Fire Department Donation Fund
   
40.02   Cost-sharing repair and maintenance program for pedestrian
thoroughfares
   
40.03   Rainy Day Fund
   
40.04   Police Department Donation Fund
   
40.05   Park Special Donation Fund
   
40.06   Christmas Lighting Donation Fund
   
40.07   Service Project Fund
   
40.08   Civic Events Donation Fund
   
40.09   Fire Service Response Fund
   
40.10   257 LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
40.11   Police Department Grant Fund
   
40.12   Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
   
40.13   50/50 Tree Removal Grant Program Fund
   
40.14   Clerk's Record Perpetuation Fund
   
40.15   Mainstreet Lighting Fund
   
40.16   OCRA Grant Money Fund
   
40.17   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
40.18   #321 Township Fire Truck Clearing Fund
   
40.19   #2410; OCRA Grant Money Fund
Cross reference:
   West Lawn Cemetery Improvement Fund, see §
91.11
   West Lawn Cemetery Maintenance Fund, see §
91.11
§ 40.01 FIRE DEPARTMENT DONATION FUND.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby empowered to receive
and deposit monetary donations which are donated for the purpose of enhancing,
repairing, maintaining, and/or purchasing various equipment, supplies, and/or
clothing for the Fire Department, as well as purchasing flowers for decedents
with ties of some nature to the Fire Department, and purchasing books from a
library in memory of a decedent with ties of some nature to the Fire
Department, and/or other appropriate memorial gifts for decedents with ties of
some nature to the Fire Department.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered to take receipt of any
currently existing funds being held by the Fire Department which represent
donations collected prior to the passage of this section but subsequent to the
most recent audit of the town, and to have the same duties and powers over the
funds as if the funds had been collected subsequent to the passage of this
section.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit the monetary donations in a separate
fund which shall be entitled Fire Department Donation Fund, the deposits being
placed with a financial institution named by the town as a depository.
   (C)   The Fund shall be used for the aforementioned purposes for which the
funds were donated, and costs or expenses directly related thereto.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is also hereby empowered to disburse the funds to
persons or agencies from whom services, equipment, or products are purchased,
upon proper presentation of a claim before the Town Council and acceptance
thereof.
(Ord. 2-1999, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 40.02 COST-SHARING REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM FOR PEDESTRIAN
THOROUGHFARES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby empowered to receive and
deposit and disburse copayment funds from persons participating in the cost
sharing repair and maintenance program for pedestrian thoroughfares.
   (B)   The deposits of copayments shall be placed in a separate fund with a
financial institution named by the town as a depository.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is also hereby empowered to disburse the funds to
persons doing the repair and maintenance work, upon proper presentation of a
claim and acceptance of the work.
(Ord. 5-1998, passed 8-3-1998)
§ 40.03 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   (1)   The Town of Hagerstown hereby establishes a Rainy Day Fund,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8-5.1, and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Hagerstown
is hereby empowered to establish a Rainy Day Fund for purposes of receiving
monies authorized by Indiana law to be deposited into the Rainy Day Fund.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered to take receipt of monies
ordered by the Town Council to be transferred to the fund, pursuant to I.C. 36-
1-8-5, I.C. 36-1-8-5.1, and any other applicable section of Indiana law.
   (B)   (1)   The Rainy Day Fund shall be used to receive funds pursuant to
I.C. 36-1-8-5, which is applicable to all funds raised by a general or special
tax levy on all the taxable property of the town. Additionally, the Rainy Day
Fund shall be used to receive any and all other funds authorized by state law,
including, but not limited to, I.C. 36-1-8-5.1.
      (2)   The town shall, whenever the purposes of a tax levy have been
fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance remains in a fund (the fund
being raised by a general or special tax levy as set forth above), order the
balance of that fund be transferred as follows, unless a statute provides that
it be transferred otherwise: to the General Fund or Rainy Day Fund of the town.
      (3)   The town, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8-5.1, may transfer not more than
10% of the town’s total budget for that fiscal year to the Rainy Day Fund.
      (4)   The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same appropriation process as
other funds that receive tax money, and before making an appropriation from the
Rainy Day Fund, the Town Council shall make a finding that the proposed use of
the Rainy Day Fund is consistent with the intent of the Fund.
   (C)   (1)   The intent of the Rainy Day Fund is that the funds therein shall
be used by the Town of Hagerstown in the area of capital outlays, including,
but not limited to, the purchase of land, buildings, improvements other than
buildings, and machinery and equipment, and to provide for improvements to be
made to capital equipment, including, but not limited to, existing land,
buildings, improvements other than buildings, and machinery and equipment, and
the costs and expenses directly related thereto. This intent is subject to
future amendments by the Town Council.
      (2)   In order to make an appropriation from the Rainy Day Fund, the Town
Council must make a finding that the proposed use of the Rainy Day Fund is
consistent with the intent of the Fund.
(Ord. 3-2004, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 40.04 POLICE DEPARTMENT DONATION FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Hagerstown is hereby empowered to
receive and deposit monetary donations which are donated for use by the
Hagerstown Police Department, and the donations shall be deposited in a
separate fund which shall be entitled Hagerstown Police Department Donation
Fund, the deposits being placed with a financial institution named by the town
as a depository.
   (B)   The purposes that donations deposited in the Fund may be used for the
Hagerstown Police Department (Department) include the following: purchase of
equipment to enhance the Department, including, but not necessarily limited to,
computer, technology, safety, and vehicle equipment, firearms, defense devises,
body minor, clothing, and supplies; purpose of enhancing, repairing,
maintaining various equipment, supplies, and or clothing for the Department;
pay for training, schooling, or classes relative to law enforcement; as well as
purchasing flowers for decedents with ties of some nature to the Hagerstown
Police Department, and purchasing books from a library in memory of a decedent
with ties of some nature to the Hagerstown Police Department, and/or other
appropriate memorial gifts for decedents with ties of some nature to the
Hagerstown Police Department, and costs or expenses directly related thereto.
   (C)   That although the purposes that donations deposited in the Hagerstown
Police Department Donation Fund can be used for include those listed above, the
Town Marshal and the Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall work together to
internally account for the Fund in such a way as to give due regard to the
intention of any donor in making any donation to the Fund. In the event that a
donor gives a donation with a more specific intent, the town and the Department
shall be guided by the donor’s intent in selecting an appropriate purpose from
those provided above in division (B).
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is also hereby empowered to disburse the funds to
persons or agencies from whom services, equipment, or products are purchased,
upon proper presentation of a claim before the Town Council of Hagerstown and
acceptance thereof.
(Ord. 3-2005, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 40.05 PARK SPECIAL DONATION FUND.
   (A)   Established.
      (1)   There is hereby established a special fund to be entitled Park
Special Donation Fund. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby empowered to
receive and deposit monetary donations which are donated for use by the
Hagerstown Department of Parks and Recreation in said Park Special Donation
Fund, said deposits to be placed with a financial institution named by the town
as a depository.
      (2)   The donations made to the Park Special Donation Fund are to be used
by the Hagerstown Department of Parks and Recreation for furtherance of the
purposes of said Department, including but not necessarily limited to the
purchase of equipment, repair and maintenance of current or future equipment,
improvement of buildings or grounds of the Department, and the costs and
expenses associated with activities of said Department.
      (3)   That although the purposes that donations deposited in the Park
Special Donation Fund are to be used are provided in division (A)(2) above, the
Hagerstown Department of Parks and Recreation and the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town shall work together to internally account for said fund in such a way as
to give due regard to the intention of any donor in making any donation to said
fund in the event that a donor has a specific intent for such a donation. The
town and the Department shall be guided by the donor's more specific intent
provided said intent is within the purposes set forth above in division (A)(2).
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer is also hereby empowered to disburse amounts
from the Park Special Donation Fund to persons or agencies from whom services,
equipment, or products are purchased, upon proper presentation of a claim
before the Town Council and acceptance thereof, and within the rules of the
Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   Transfer of funds. The balance of funds currently in the Special
Donation fund as referenced above in this section shall be transferred to the
Park Special Donation Fund by the Clerk-Treasurer upon the adoption of this
Ordinance, and the Clerk-Treasurer is directed to make said transfer.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 40.06 CHRISTMAS LIGHTING DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund to be entitled Christmas
Lighting Donation Fund. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby empowered to
receive and deposit monetary donations which are donated for use by the town in
said Christmas Lighting Donation Fund, said deposits to be placed with a
financial institution named by the town as a depository.
   (B)   The donations made to the Christmas Lighting Donation Fund are to be
used by the town to help offset costs associated with Christmas lighting and/or
Christmas decorations within the town.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered to disburse amounts from the
Christmas Lighting Donation Fund to persons or agencies from whom services,
equipment, or products are purchased, upon proper presentation of a claim
before the Town Council and acceptance thereof, and within the rules of the
Indiana State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 8-2009, passed 5-19-2009)
§ 40.07 SERVICE PROJECT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund to be entitled Service
Project Fund. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby empowered to receive
and deposit monies to deposit in the Service Project Fund as directed by the
Town Council or that meet the intended purpose of said fund, said deposits to
be placed with a financial institution named by the town as a depository.
   (B)   The purpose of the Service Project Fund is to receive monies from
other sources that are to be used by the town, wherein they are received with a
specific and designated purpose at the time of receipt. Funds may be received
from various sources, including but not limited to the Wayne County Economic
Development Corporation, and may be used for various purposes as designated by
the Town Council.
   (C)   The Service Project Fund may be used to hold any funds contributed or
obtained for a specific and designated purpose until said funds are expended
for said purpose.
   (D)   The handling of any funds contributed or deposited to the Service
Project Fund shall be in compliance with the practices, rules, and standards
set forth by the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered to disburse amounts from the
Service Project Fund to persons or agencies from whom services, equipment, or
products are purchased, upon proper presentation of a claim before the Town
Council and acceptance thereof, and within the rules of the Indiana State Board
of Accounts.
(Ord. 9-2009, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 40.08 CIVIC EVENTS DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund to be entitled Civic Events
Donation Fund. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby empowered to receive
and deposit monetary donations which are donated for use by the town with
respect to civic events, said deposits to be placed with a financial
institution named by the town as a depository.
   (B)   Donations made to the Civic Events Donation Fund are to be used by the
town for the furtherance of civic events and civic opportunities, including any
and all related costs, expenses, purchases, services, equipment, and other
products associated with the same.
   (C)   That although the purposes of the donations deposited in the Civic
Events Donation Fund are to be used as provided herein, the Clerk-Treasurer of
the town shall account for said fund in such a way as to give due regard to the
specific intention of any donor making any donation to said fund.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is also hereby empowered to disburse amounts from
the Civic Events Donation Fund to persons or agencies from whom services,
equipment, or products are purchased or used, upon proper presentation of a
claim before the Town Council and acceptance thereof, all in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 4-18-2011)
§ 40.09 FIRE SERVICE RESPONSE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund to be entitled "Fire
Service Response Fund." The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered to receive and
deposit monetary payments which are received in response to billing for fire
services provided by the Hagerstown-Jefferson Township Volunteer Fire
Department into said Fund with said deposits to be placed with a financial
institution named by the town as a depository.
   (B)   Payments made to the Fire Service Response Fund are to be used by the
Hagerstown-Jefferson Township Volunteer Fire Department:
      (1)   For the purchase of equipment, buildings, and property for
firefighting, fire protection, or other emergency services; and
      (2)   To pay principal and interest on any loan made by the Department of
Homeland Security established by I.C. 10-19-2-1, for a division of the
Hagerstown-Jefferson Township Volunteer Fire Department for the purchase of new
or used firefighting and other emergency equipment or apparatus.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is also hereby empowered to disburse amounts from
the "Fire Service Response Fund" to persons or agencies from whom services,
equipment, or products are purchased or used, as permitted by division (B)
above, upon proper presentation of a claim before the Town Council and
acceptance thereof, all in accordance with the rules and regulations of the
Indiana State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 3-2015, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 40.10 257 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   Indiana's Department of Local Government Finance is requiring
political subdivisions in Indiana to establish a new and separate fund to
receive the special LOIT distribution.
   (B)   The Hagerstown Town Council, in accordance with the requirements
above, hereby desires to create a LOIT Special Distribution Fund.
   (C)   Per the direction given by the State Board of Accounts ("SBOA") in
accordance with the terms of a memorandum dated April 22, 2016, ("SBOA SEA 67
Memorandum"), at least 75% of the special distribution must be deposited into
fund 257 titled “LOIT Special Distribution” and used for infrastructure as
found under I.C. § 6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A) with the remaining 25% able to be
deposited into the general fund, into a properly created home rule fund, or
into the rainy day fund and used for any purposes for the town.
(Ord. 4-2016, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 40.11 POLICE DEPARTMENT GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund to be entitled “The
Hagerstown Police Department Grant Fund.” The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of
Hagerstown is hereby empowered to receive and deposit monetary grants which are
made for use by the Town of Hagerstown Police Department with respect any and
all actions, endeavors, purchases, or uses proper under the law, with said
grants to be placed with a financial institution named by the town as a
depository.
   (B)   Grants made to The Hagerstown Police Department Grant Fund are to be
used to promote and further expand new and existing police department resources
and endeavors which would substantially reduce the overall costs of the
Hagerstown Police Department associated with any such purpose.
   (C)   That although the purposes of the grants deposited in The Hagerstown
Police Department Grant Fund are to be used as provided herein, the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town shall account for said fund in a such a way as to give
due regard to the specific intention of any grantor making any grant to said
fund.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is also hereby empowered to disburse amounts from
The Hagerstown Police Department Grant Fund to persons or agencies from whom
services, equipment, or products are purchased or used, upon proper
presentation of a claim before the Town Council of the Town of Hagerstown and
acceptance thereof, all in accordance with the rules and regulations of the
Indiana State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 6-2017, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 40.12 LOCAL ROAD AND BRIDGE MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   A new non-reverting fund to be known as the Local Road and Bridge Matching
Grant Fund, and which is to be given fund number 258, is now established. The
Fund shall receive monies from the Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
through INDOT, as well as local match funds transferred from the State of
Indiana’s LOIT Special Distribution Fund earmarked for local road improvements
as well as rainy day funds earmarked for the same purpose.
(Ord. 4-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 40.13 50/50 TREE REMOVAL GRANT PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered to receive and deposit and
disburse co-payment funds from persons participating in the cost sharing
program.
   (B)   When the Town Council wishes to provide for tree removal in accordance
with the Tree Removal Grant, a participating person and the town shall share in
the cost of tree removal. A participating person's co-payment shall consist of
50% of the cost of the tree removal and the town shall contribute the remaining
50% of the cost of the tree removal. A participating person's co-payment
percentage shall be due and payable prior to the town authorizing the tree
removal.
   (C)   Such deposits of co-payments shall be placed in a separate fund with a
financial institution named by the town as a depository.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is also hereby empowered to disburse such funds to
persons doing such tree removal, upon proper presentation of a claim and
acceptance of the work.
(Ord. 6-2018, passed 7-2-2018)
§ 40.14 CLERK'S RECORD PERPETUATION FUND.
   (A)   The previously created and named Court Document Storage Fee Fund shall
hereinafter be named and referred to as the Clerk's Record Perpetuation Fund.
   (B)   The Clerk's Record Perpetuation Fund shall retain the Fund Number 310.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 40.15 MAINSTREET LIGHTING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Mainstreet Lighting Fund (Fund 443).
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered to receive and deposit funds
related to the Mainstreet Street Lighting Project into an account maintained by
a financial institution named by the town as a depository.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may utilize said fund, with proper authority
granted, in any manner proper under Indiana law related to Mainstreet Street
Lighting Project and maintenance of said street lights upon completion of the
Project.
(Ord. 5-2019, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 40.16 OCRA GRANT MONEY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created an OCRA Grant Money Fund pursuant to Indiana
Code and the directives of the State Board of Accounts, for use with all
financial activities associated with a grant from the Office of Community and
Rural Affairs ("OCRA") for a rehabilitation project occurring at what is
commonly known as 51 South Perry Street.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered to accept, administer and
disburse all said grant and other related monies as authorized by Indiana law
in order to facilitate this rehabilitation project.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall create, maintain and appropriately
administer the grant monies through the OCRA Grant Money Fund, specifically
designated as internal Fund 443.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 40.17 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery
Fund (Fund 176).
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Hagerstown is hereby empowered to
receive and deposit funds related to the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery
Fund into an account maintained by a financial institution named by the town as
a depository.
   (C)   Any and all monies received from the ARP shall be receipted into Fund
176 and uses of the same are restricted, as follows:
      (1)   Any and all uses as specified in § 603(c) of the ARP;
      (2)   Any and all funds shall be used to provide payment in accordance
with § 603(c) of the ARP to cover costs incurred by the town by December 31,
2024;
      (3)   Funds may be used to respond to the public health emergency caused
by COVID-19 or the economic effects from COVID-19, including assistance to
households, small businesses, and non-profits, or to aid impacted industries
such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
      (4)   Funds may be used to provide premium pay to eligible workers who
perform essential work;
      (5)   Funds may be used to provide grants to eligible employers of
eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (6)   Funds may be used for the provision of governmental services to the
extent of the reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public
health emergency compared to revenue collected in the most recent fiscal year
of the town prior to the COVID-19 public health emergency;
      (7)   Funds may be used to make necessary investments in water, sewer, or
broadband infrastructure; and
      (8)   Funds may be used for the town’s ARP Plan, to be discussed,
approved and adopted at a subsequent public meeting of the town, that will
provide additional details for the use of these funds.
   (D)   To ensure accountability and transparency in the use of the funds, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall not transfer any funds to another fund of the town.
   (E)   Prior to the disbursement of any funds, the town’s fiscal body shall
appropriate the money in the fund for a use consistent with those set forth
above.
(Ord. 7-2021, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 40.18 #321 TOWNSHIP FIRE TRUCK CLEARING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund to be entitled “#321
Township Fire Truck Clearing Fund.” The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of
Hagerstown is hereby empowered to receive and deposit monetary payments, which
are received in relation to fire service apparatus purchases in conjunction
with the Hagerstown-Jefferson Township Volunteer Fire Department, into said
Fund with said deposits to be placed with a financial institution named by the
town as a depository.
   (B)   Payments made to the #321 Township Fire Truck Clearing Fund are to be
used in conjunction with the purchase of fire apparatus to be used by the
Hagerstown-Jefferson Township Volunteer Fire Department.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is also hereby empowered to disburse amounts from
the “#321 Township Fire Truck Clearing Fund” to persons or agencies from whom
services, equipment, or products are purchased or used, as permitted by
division (B) above, upon proper presentation of a claim before the Town Council
of the Town of Hagerstown and acceptance thereof, all in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 14-2021, passed 7-6-2021)
§ 40.19 #2410; OCRA GRANT MONEY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established an OCRA Grant Money Fund pursuant to
Indiana Code and the directives of the State Board of Accounts, for use with
all financial activities associated with a grant from the Office of Community
and Rural Affairs (“OCRA”) for a planning grant related to infrastructure
improvements within the town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby empowered to accept,
administer, and disburse all said grant and other related monies as authorized
by state law in order to facilitate to this rehabilitation project.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall create, maintain, and appropriately
administer the grant monies through the OCRA Grant Money Fund, specifically
designated as internal Fund #2410.
(Ord. 12-2023, passed 9-5-2023)
CHAPTER 41: COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
41.01   Purpose
Operations
   
41.10   Revolving fund
   
41.11   Use of fund
   
41.12   Terms and conditions of loan from Town Revolving Fund
   
41.13   Issuance of bonds
   
41.14   Transfer to town’s EDIT Fund
   
41.15   Clerk-Treasurer’s duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 41.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town of Hagerstown, Indiana, recognizes the need to provide structure to
the town’s efforts to promote community and economic development, and desires,
by this chapter, entitled Community and Economic Development, to provide
structure, organization, and planning involving matters related thereto.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 2-6-2006; Am. Ord. 6-2006, passed 5-1-2006)
OPERATIONS
§ 41.10 REVOLVING FUND.
   Pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-7-13.1, the town hereby creates and establishes a
Revolving Fund under I.C. 5-1-14-14, the Fund to be entitled Town of Hagerstown
Economic Development Revolving Fund (hereinafter Town Revolving Fund).
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 2-6-2006; Am. Ord. 6-2006, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 41.11 USE OF FUND.
   (A)   The town may lend the money in the Town Revolving Fund to any borrower
if the Town Council finds that the loan will be used by the borrower for one or
more of the following economic development purposes:
      (1)   Promoting significant opportunities for the gainful employment of
the county’s or the town’s residents;
      (2)   Attracting a major new business enterprise to the Town of
Hagerstown; and/or
      (3)   Retaining or expanding a significant business enterprise in the
Town of Hagerstown.
   (B)   Activities that may be undertaken by the borrower in carrying out an
economic development purpose include expenditure for any of the following:
      (1)   Acquisition of land;
      (2)   Acquisition of property interests;
      (3)   Site improvements;
      (4)   Infrastructure improvements;
      (5)   Buildings;
      (6)   Structures;
      (7)   Rehabilitation, renovation, or enlargement of buildings or
structures;
      (8)   Machinery;
      (9)   Equipment; and/or
      (10)   Furnishings.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 2-6-2006; Am. Ord. 6-2006, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 41.12 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF LOAN FROM TOWN REVOLVING FUND.
   (A)   In order for the town to make a loan from the Town Revolving Fund, the
Town Council of the town must approve the loan by the adoption of a written
resolution which must contain the following:
      (1)   The interest rate of the loan;
      (2)   The term of the loan;
      (3)   The form of the note or notes;
      (4)   The medium of payment;
      (5)   The place and manner of payment;
      (6)   The manner of execution of the note or notes;
      (7)   The terms of redemption;
      (8)   The funds or sources of funds for which the notes or notes are
payable, which may be any funds and sources of funds available to the borrower;
and
      (9)   Any other provisions not inconsistent with I.C. 5-1-14-14.
   (B)   In order to assist the Town Council in making determinations regarding
loans from the Town Revolving Fund, the town hereby creates a Town Revolving
Fund Loan Advisory Committee, hereinafter referred to as Loan Committee. The
Loan Committee shall consist offive members as follows:
      (1)   The Town Manager;
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   One Town Council member, to be appointed by the Town Council
President and who may be the Town Council President, to serve a four-year term,
with the exception of the first term, which shall end on the first Monday in
January 2010 or upon the appointment of a replacement on the first date of the
appointment thereafter;
      (4)   One member of the Town’s Plan Commission, to serve a four-year
term, with the exception of the first term, which shall end on the first Monday
in January 2009 or upon the appointment of a replacement on the first date of
the appointment thereafter. In the event that an appointee is no longer serving
on the Town’s Plan Commission, the appointee shall be considered to have
resigned on the last effective date on which the appointee served on the Town’s
Plan Commission; and
      (5)   The town’s representative to the Wayne County EDC, whose term is to
coincide with the appointee’s service on the Board of the Wayne County EDC. In
the event that the town does not have a current representative to the Wayne
County EDC, the Town Council President may appoint a citizen member to the Loan
Committee, who must reside in the corporation limits. In the event that this
appointee is a citizen member, the appointee’s term shall be for four years,
with the exception of the first term, which shall end on the first Monday in
January 2008 or upon the appointment of a replacement on the first date of the
appointment thereafter. In the event that a citizen member is appointed while
the town does not have a representative to the Wayne County EDC and the town
subsequently appoints a representative to the Wayne County EDC, the citizen
member shall be replaced by the town’s representative to the Wayne County EDC.
   (C)   The Loan Committee is strictly advisory in nature, and is formed for
the sole purpose of studying, gathering information, and making recommendations
to the Town Council regarding potential loans to be made from the town
Revolving Fund based on the criteria established. The Loan Committee shall have
no authority or capacity to make decisions for or on behalf of the town or bind
the town to any obligation of any nature. The town may grant or deny a loan
from the Town Revolving Fund with or without a recommendation or review by the
Loan Committee, and contrary to any recommendation which may be made by the
Loan Committee.
   (D)   The Loan Committee may recommend further loan criteria that the
committee deems to be in the town’s best interest in considering applications
for loans from the Town Revolving Fund, and any such criteria may be adopted by
the Town Council as criteria for the loans.
   (E)   The Town Council, as part of its resolution under division (A) above,
may charge an applicant a loan processing fee not to exceed one point on any
loan, which may be payable at closing or added to the principal amount of the
loan to form an enlarged principal balance.
   (F)   All applicants for a loan from the Town Revolving Fund shall submit an
application requesting the loan and the application must be submitted to the
Town Council care of the Clerk-Treasurer or Town Manager. The Town Council may
provide a form for the purpose, and if the town provides the same, any
applicant is required to use the town’s form in applying for such a loan. As
part of the application, the Town Council or the Loan Committee may request any
supporting documentation from the applicant that the Town Council or Loan
Committee believes are necessary in evaluating the application.
   (G)   The Town Council may proceed on making a decision on the application
without referring the same to the Loan Committee, or the Town Council may refer
the application to the Loan Committee for review and recommendation, at the
discretion of the Town Council. In the event that the Town Council refers the
application to the Loan Committee for review and recommendation, the Town
Council may, at its discretion, proceed with denying or granting a loan
application without waiting on the review and recommendation of the Loan
Committee. In the event that the Town Council refers a loan application to the
Loan Committee, the Loan Committee shall work to review the application in a
reasonably prompt fashion, with any review and recommendation being completed
no more than 30 days subsequent to the receipt thereof by the Loan Committee.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 2-6-2006; Am. Ord. 6-2006, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 41.13 ISSUANCE OF BONDS.
   The Town of Hagerstown may issue bonds pursuant to I.C. 36-9-32-7 for the
economic development purposes listed in § 41.11, and may repay the indebtedness
solely from the revenues derived from the repayment of loans made pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 2-6-2006; Am. Ord. 6-2006, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 41.14 TRANSFER TO TOWN’S EDIT FUND.
   Money in the Town Revolving Fund may at any time be transferred in whole or
in part to the Town’s Economic Development Income Tax Fund.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 2-6-2006; Am. Ord. 6-2006, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 41.15 CLERK-TREASURER’S DUTIES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the financial management of the
funds in the Revolving Fund, including, but not limited to, the proper
accounting of funds and the investment of surplus funds.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 2-6-2006; Am. Ord. 6-2006, passed 5-1-2006)
CHAPTER 42: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
42.01   Access to public records
   
42.02   Procedure for access to public records
   
42.03   Fee schedule for the certification, copying or transmission of public
records
§ 42.01 ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, I.C. 5-14-3 is incorporated herein and is
made a part hereof by reference, and the same shall be treated as if it had
been set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 42.02 PROCEDURE FOR ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   For all town departments, except the Police Department, the Office of
the Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare and make available for inspection and/or
copying public records during normal business hours. The Town Marshal or his or
her designee shall be responsible for the release of public records from the
Police Department.
   (B)   Any person wishing to inspect or obtain copies of public records shall
submit a written request to the Clerk-Treasurer. Such written request shall
include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, and telephone number of the person
making the request; and
      (2)   A list of records the person requests to inspect and/or have
copied.
   (C)   If the record requested concerns an employee, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall notify the employee of the request.
   (D)   The town may waive any or all provisions under this policy when a
request to inspect or obtain copies of records is made:
      (1)   By another governmental agency or an authorized representative of
another governmental agency;
      (2)   By an agent of the town;
      (3)   By industrial or commercial prospects; or
      (4)   Pursuant to court order.
   (E)   The town shall make reasonable efforts to provide to a person making a
request a copy of all disclosable data contained in the record.
   (F)   Any person who receives information in response to a public records
request may not use the information for commercial purposes, including selling,
advertising, or soliciting the purchase of merchandise, goods, or services, or
selling, loaning, giving away, or otherwise delivering the information obtained
by the request to any other person for these purposes. However, use of the
information received in connection with the preparation or publication of news,
for nonprofit activities, or for academic research is not prohibited.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 42.03 FEE SCHEDULE FOR THE CERTIFICATION, COPYING OR TRANSMISSION OF PUBLIC
RECORDS.
   (A)   The town shall charge the following fees:
      (1)   Certification per document: $5.00;
      (2)   Copy of police accident/incident report: $5.00;
      (3)   Photocopy (8-1/2 x 11 or 14): $0.10 per page;
      (4)   Facsimile transmission: $1.00.
   (B)   When applicable, the actual cost of postage shall be added to the fees
detailed in division (A) above in accordance with current postage rates.
(Ord. 10-2010, passed 9-20-2010)
CHAPTER 43: SCHEDULE OF FEES - VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
43.01   Applicability
   
43.02   Definitions
   
43.03   Responsibility for administration
   
43.04   Compatibility with other chapter requirements
   
43.05   Response fees
   
43.06   Billing procedures and disposition of funds
§ 43.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all persons or organizations who receive
services from the Volunteer Fire Department for incidents, including but not
limited to fires and motor vehicle accidents or collisions, and shall apply to
any non-resident responsible party as defined by this chapter.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 43.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply. Any
term in this chapter not defined below shall take on its common or dictionary
meaning.
   EXPENDABLE MATERIAL. An item that is regularly used during the course of a
motor-vehicle accident or collision response, including, but not limited to,
hazardous spill absorption materials, agents including but not limited to foam,
absorbing agents, or emulsifiers used in cleanup operations, or any other item
that must be replaced due to the rendering of services and/or responses to a
motor-vehicle accident or collision by the Volunteer Fire Department.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL SPILL. Unexpected, unintentional, or unapproved discharge
or other loss of oil or other substances that contain hazardous or otherwise
objectionable substances that damage or threaten to damage the public health,
safety, and welfare, which, for the purposes of this chapter only, are the
result of a motor-vehicle accident or collision to which the Volunteer Fire
Department is a responder.
   NON-RESIDENT. A person whose primary residence at the time of the service or
response is outside the jurisdictional boundaries of Jefferson Township, Wayne
County, Indiana.
   RESIDENT. A person whose primary residence at the time of the service or
response is within the jurisdictional boundaries of Jefferson Township, Wayne
County, Indiana.
   RESPONSE or RESPOND. The deployment or mobilization of the Volunteer Fire
Department to incidents, including but not limited to fires, motor-vehicle
accident or collision calls or calls for hazardous material spills.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
      (1)   The individual who caused the incident, including the real property
owner, or owner or responsible party of the motor-vehicle that caused the
accident or collision (as determined by the motor vehicle accident police
report) or that necessitated the motor vehicle accident response by the
Volunteer Fire Department and personnel;
      (2)   The liable insurance company or insurance provider of the real
estate or vehicle driven or operated by the individual who caused the motor
vehicle accident or collision (as determined by the motor vehicle accident
police report) that necessitated the response by the Volunteer Fire Department
and personnel;
      (3)   The owner and/or the liable insurance company or insurance provider
of the owner of real estate or of the motor vehicle operated by the individual
who caused the motor-vehicle accident or collision (as determined by the motor-
vehicle accident police report) for which hazardous material spills or debris
around the vehicle are cleaned up, fires are extinguished, or the site of the
accident or collision is secured during a response by the Volunteer Fire
Department and personnel; or
      (4)   The legal representative of a deceased party or the legal guardian
of an incapacitated or minor party, which deceased party, incapacitated party,
or minor party caused the motor-vehicle accident or collision (as determined by
the motor-vehicle accident police report) that necessitated the response by the
Volunteer Fire Department and personnel.
   SERVICE. Any necessary action conducted by the Volunteer Fire Department
during an incident or motor vehicle accident or collision response including,
but not limited to, cleanup of hazardous substances, evacuation, securing
premises, extrication, extinguishment, transportation, equipment operation and
utilization, and any and all other services required to assure public health
and safety from known hazards which resulted from the incident or motor vehicle
accident or collision which the Volunteer Fire Department was called to respond
to.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 43.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town of Hagerstown, by and through its Clerk-Treasurer, shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter by and
through the Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 43.04 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER CHAPTER REQUIREMENTS.
   This chapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other
chapter, rule, regulation, statute, or other provision of the law. The
requirements of this chapter should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other chapter, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, the
more restrictive provisions or those provisions that impose higher protective
standards for human health or the environment, shall be considered to take
precedence.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 43.05 RESPONSE FEES.
   The fees for response services for incidents, including but not limited to
motor vehicle accidents or collisions by the Volunteer Fire Department shall be
in accordance with home owner's and/or motor vehicle insurance industry
standards which may fluctuate from time to time and shall not exceed that which
is usual, customary, and reasonable for costs of the services rendered.
   (A)   For initial response with a fire engine, a fire truck, or a fire
apparatus, including a hazardous material response unit, or a fire rescue unit
dispatched on a fire or hazardous material incident, $250 per response vehicle
except command/control vehicle, which is $100 per vehicle.
   (B)   For each hour or fraction thereof as on-scene assistance, $150 per
response unit and $50 per command/control vehicle.
   (C)   For expendable materials such as absorption materials, emulsifiers, or
other agents used in cleanup operations, that actual replacement costs of those
materials.
   (D)   For collection of debris, chemicals, fuel, or contaminated materials
resulting from a spill, the actual cost of removal and disposal at an
authorized location.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 43.06 BILLING PROCEDURES AND DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department by way of the Clerk-Treasurer, may
collect a service charge according to this schedule from the responsible party
that receives service if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The bill for payment of the service charge:
         (a)   Is submitted to the responsible party in writing within 30 days
after the services are provided;
         (b)   Includes a copy of a fire incident report in the form prescribed
by the state fire marshal, if the service was provided for an event that
requires a fire incident report;
         (c)   Must contain verification that the bill has been approved by the
Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department; and
         (d)   Must contain language indicating that correspondence from the
responsible party and/or any question from the responsible party regarding the
bill should be directed to the Volunteer Fire Department.
      (2)   Payment is remitted directly to the town.
   (B)   The Volunteer Fire Department shall use the revenue collected from the
fire service charges under this section:
      (1)   For the purchase of equipment, buildings, and property for
firefighting, fire protection, or other emergency services;
      (2)   For deposit in the township firefighting fund established under
I.C. 36-8-13-4; or
      (3)   To pay principal and interest on a loan made by the Department of
Homeland Security established by I.C. 10-19-2-1 or a division of the Volunteer
Fire Department for the purchase of new or used firefighting and other
emergency equipment or apparatus.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer who processes fees on behalf of the Volunteer Fire
Department shall send all bills, notices, and other related materials to both
the Volunteer Fire Department and the person being billed for services.
   (D)   All fees allowed by Indiana law and the fire marshal's fee schedule
must be itemized separately from any other charges.
   (E)   The Volunteer Fire Department or its agent may maintain a civil action
to recover an unpaid service charge under this section and may, if it prevails,
recover all costs of the action, including reasonable attorney's fees.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 11-4-2013)
CHAPTER 44: CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
Section
   
44.01   General information
   
44.02   Definition of capital assets
   
44.03   Valuation of capital assets
   
44.04   Asset definitions by major category
   
44.05   Depreciation methods
   
44.06   Capital asset acquisitions
   
44.07   Asset transfers and dispositions
   
44.08   Periodic inventories
   
44.09   Responsibilities of Clerk-Treasurer’s Office
   
44.10   Responsibilities of department managers
§ 44.01 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Fixed Asset Policy is being issued effective June 1, 2015. The new
policy will be referred to as the Capital Asset Policy. This Policy is being
issued to document the minimum value of capital assets to be reported on our
financial reports and to include infrastructure assets. This issuance of a
policy document is related to the implementation of a new reporting model,
Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement 34. Statement 34 will require
the town to depreciate capital assets. The capital asset threshold will be
$5,000. An asset with a value under $5,000 will be expensed in the year of
purchase. The infrastructure portion of this policy is also effective June 1,
2015.
   (B)   Town utilities will follow this same definition of capital assets
except any item with a unit cost of $5,000 or more shall be capitalized. Assets
that are not capitalized (items < $5,000) are expensed in the year of
acquisition. Town utilities will follow the capitalization guidelines of the
Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (C)   The town has established a Capital Asset Policy in order to provide a
higher degree of control over its considerable investment in capital assets,
and to be able to demonstrate accountability to its various constituencies:
citizens, rate-payers, oversight bodies and regulators. All public information
pertaining to capital assets will be made available in the Annual Financial
Report.
   (D)   The purpose of establishing a Capital Policy is five-fold:
      (1)   To safeguard the investments of the citizens of the town;
      (2)   To fix responsibility for the custody of equipment;
      (3)   To provide a basis for formulating capital asset acquisition,
maintenance and retirement policies;
      (4)   To provide data for financial reporting; and
      (5)   To demonstrate appropriate stewardship responsibility for public
assets.
   (E)   This Policy will only serve to classify capital assets, including
fixed and infrastructure, for accuracy in financial reporting through the
Indiana State Board of Accounts. It does not include data processing,
programming requirements, or computer operations procedures.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 44.02 DEFINITION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets include: land, land improvements, including monuments,
buildings, building improvements, construction in progress, machinery and
equipment, vehicles and infrastructure. All land will be capitalized but not
depreciated. All items with a useful life of more than one year, and having a
unit cost of $5,000 or more shall be capitalized (including acquisitions by
lease-purchase agreements and donated items). A capital asset meeting the
criteria will be reported and depreciated in the government wide financial
statements.
   (B)   Assets that are not capitalized (items < $5,000) are expensed in the
year of acquisition.
   (C)   Exceptions are:
      (1)   Items costing less than the above limits which are permanently
installed as a part of the cost of original construction or installation of a
larger building or equipment unit will be included in the cost of the larger
unit;
      (2)   Modular equipment added subsequent to original equipment
construction of a larger building or equipment unit which may be put together
to form larger units costing more than the prescribed limits will be charged to
capital assets though the cost of individual items is less than such units;
      (3)   Cabinets, shelving, bookcases, and similar items, added subsequent
to original construction, which are custom made for a specific place and not
adaptable elsewhere, will be capitalized.
NOTE: Purchases made using grant funds must comply with grant requirements or
the above procedures, whichever are the most restrictive.
   (D)   Threshold levels for capital assets. The following schedule will be
followed for the different types of capital assets other than infrastructure
assets:
 Capitalize/Depreciate
                         Capitalize/Depreciate
Land                     All/Capitalize only
Land improvements        $5,000
Building                 $5,000
Building Improvements    $5,000
Construction in Progress All/Capitalize only
Machinery and Equipment  $5,000
Vehicle                  $5,000
Utility Assets           $5,000
 
   (E)   Infrastructure.
      (1)   At the network level, the asset will be classified as major if the
cost of the network item is at least 10% of the cost of all capital assets in
fiscal year 2014. A network will be defined as a group of similar assets that
serve a particular function or purpose for the town.
      (2)   At the subsystem level, the asset will be classified as major if
the cost of the subsystem item is at least 5% of the cost of all capital assets
in fiscal year 2014. A subsystem will be defined as a segment of a network of
assets that serve a similar function for the town.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 44.03 VALUATION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets must be recorded at actual cost. Normally the cost
recorded is the purchase price or construction costs of the asset, but also
included is any other reasonable and necessary costs incurred to place the
asset in its intended location and intended use. Such costs could include the
following:
      (1)   Legal and title fees, closing costs;
      (2)   Appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying fees;
      (3)   Damage payments;
      (4)   Land preparation costs, demolition costs;
      (5)   Architect, engineering and accounting fees;
      (6)   Insurance premiums during construction;
      (7)   Transportation charges; or
      (8)   Interest costs during construction.
   (B)   Donated or contributed assets should be recorded at their fair market
value on the date donated.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 44.04 ASSET DEFINITIONS BY MAJOR CATEGORY.
   It is important to the maintenance of accurate records that each asset
category be precisely defined and that all persons responsible for records
maintenance be fully aware of the categorization system. This section further
clarifies the asset definitions by major category.
   (A)   Land. Land is defined as specified land, lots, parcels or acreage
including rights-of-way and easements, owned by the town, its various
departments, boards or authorities, regardless of the method or date of
acquisition. Easements will not be included as the town does not own them, but
as an interest in land owned by another (i.e. property owner) that entitles its
holder to a specified limited use.
   (B)   Improvements other than buildings.
      (1)   Examples of town assets in this category are walks, parking areas
and drives, fencing, retaining walls, pools, fountains, planters, underground
sprinkler systems, and other similar items.
      (2)   Examples of town utilities assets in this category are water supply
mains, collection sewers, wells, dams, fences, intake pipes, manholes, and fire
hydrants.
   (C)   Buildings.
      (1)   All structures designed and erected to house equipment services, or
functions are included. This includes systems, services, and fixtures within
the buildings, and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire escapes, canopies,
areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and all other such units that serve the
building.
      (2)   Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling, ventilating
and air handling systems, alarm systems, sound systems, surveillance systems,
passenger and freight elevators, escalators, built-in casework, walk-in coolers
and freezers, fixed shelving, and other fixed equipment are included with the
building, if owned. Communication antennas and/or towers are not included as
buildings. These are parts of the equipment units that they serve.
   (D)   Equipment. Equipment includes all other types of physical property
within the scope of the fixed asset management system not previously
classified. Included within this category are office mechanical equipment,
office furniture, appliances, furnishings, machinery items, maintenance
equipment, communication equipment, Police, Fire, Sanitation and Park
Department, laboratory equipment, vehicles, road equipment, aircraft, emergency
equipment, earth moving equipment, text equipment, civil defense equipment, and
data processing equipment. All supplies are excluded.
   (E)   Infrastructure.
      (1)   Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets that normally
can be preserved for a significantly greater number of years than most capital
assets and that are normally stationary in nature. Examples include roads,
streetlights, traffic signals, drainage systems and water systems.
Infrastructure assets do not include buildings, drives, parking lots or any
other examples given above that are incidental to property or access to the
property above.
      (2)   Additions and improvements to infrastructure, which increase the
capacity or efficiency of the asset, will be capitalized. Maintenance/repairs
will be considered as necessary to maintain the existing asset, and therefore
not capitalized. For example, patching, resurfacing, snow removal, etc., are
considered maintenance activities and will be expensed. Also, normal department
operating activities such as feasibility studies, and preliminary engineering
and design, will be expensed and not capitalized as an element of the
infrastructure asset.
      (3)   The retroactive reporting requirements for infrastructure of GASB
34 requires the town to report items put into service from 1980 forward, and
gives the town the option to report items put into service prior to 1980.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 44.05 DEPRECIATION METHODS.
   The town will be depreciating capital assets by using either composite/group
method depreciation or the straight-line method. Salvage value will be
determined on an asset-by-asset basis. Depreciation will be calculated when
needed for financial reporting. Land is not depreciated according to general
accepted accounting principles.
   (A)   Composite/group network.
      (1)   Composite depreciation refers to calculating depreciation for a
collection of similar assets. A single composite rate is applied annually to
the acquisition cost of the collection as a whole. An adjustment will be made
to the total cost to account for any additions/disposals throughout the year.
The accumulated depreciation associated with it will also be adjusted. A gain
or loss will never be reported on the asset when using the composite method. A
full year's depreciation will be taken when the asset is placed in service and
no depreciation recorded in the year it is sold or disposed of. To determine
the appropriate depreciation rate for the composite group, divide one by the
number of years the assets are depreciated. For instance, a group of assets
with a 25-year life will be depreciated at 4% each year (1/25).
      (2)   Following is the list of groups we will use for depreciation:
         (a)   Composite/group depreciation:
            1.   Street lights - 35 years;
            2.   Traffic signals - 25 years;
            3.   Flood walls/gates - 50 years; and
            4.   Roads:
               a.   Cement - 10 years;
               b.   Gravel - 15 years;
               c.   Concrete - 30 years;
               d.   Asphaltic concrete -20 years; and
               e.   Brick or stone - 50 years.
   (B)   Straight-line depreciation.
      (1)   All assets accounted for under the Capital Asset Policy will be
depreciated using the straight-line method of depreciation. A gain or loss on
disposal will be recorded. Following is a list of the most common useful lives:
         (a)   Vehicles - 5 years;
         (b)   Office equipment - 5 years;
         (c)   Office furniture - 20 years;
         (d)   Heavy equipment - 10 years;
         (e)   Fire trucks - 15 years;
         (f)   Buildings- 50 years;
         (g)   Building components (HVAC systems, roofing) - 20 years;
         (h)   Leasehold improvements - useful life of asset or lease term
(whichever is shorter);
         (i)   Land improvements - structure (parking lots, athletic courts,
swimming pools) - 20 years;
         (j)   Land improvements - ground work (golf course, athletic fields,
landscaping, fencing) - 20 years;
         (k)   Outdoor equipment - (playground equipment, radio towers) - 15
years;
         (l)   Grounds equipment - (mowers, tractors, attachments) - 15 years;
         (m)   Computer hardware - 3 years; and
         (n)   Computer software - 5 years.
      (2)   Town utilities' useful lives are as follows:
         (a)   Water:
            1.   Buildings and improvements - 50 years;
            2.   Transmission and distribution mains - 50 years;
            3.   Meters/hydrants - 50 years;
            4.   Pumping equipment - 50 years;
            5.   Water treatment equipment - 50 years;
            6.   Reservoirs tanks - 50 years;
            7.   Furniture and equipment - 10 years;
            8.   Other equipment - 10 years;
            9.   Transportation equipment - 10 years;
            10.   Shop and lab equipment - 10 years;
            11.   Computer equipment - 3 years; and
            12.   Communications equipment - 10 years.
         (b)   Sewer:
            1.   Buildings and improvements - 50 years;
            2.   Sewer lines - 50 years;
            3.   Combined sewer overflow - 50 years;
            4.   Lift station - 50 years;
            5.   Treatment plant/equipment - 10 years;
            6.   Office equipment - 5 years;
            7.   Miscellaneous operating equipment - 5 years; and
            8.   Vehicles - 5 years.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 44.06 CAPITAL ASSET ACQUISITIONS.
   (A)   The method of acquisition is not a determining factor. Each department
should report items acquired by:
      (1)   Regular purchases;
      (2)   Lease purchase - see below;
      (3)   Construction by town personnel;
      (4)   Construction by an outside contractor;
      (5)   Resolution/condemnation;
      (6)   Donation/contribution;
      (7)   Addition to an existing asset;
      (8)   Transfer from another department;
      (9)   Trade or barter; or
      (10)   Annexation.
   (B)   Leased equipment should be capitalized if the lease agreement meets
any one of the following criteria:
      (1)   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by the
end of the lease term;
      (2)   The lease contains a bargain purchase option;
      (3)   The lease term is equal to 75% of the estimated economic life of
the leased property;
      (4)   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of
the lease, excluding executory costs, equals at least 90% of the fair value of
the leased property.
   (C)   Leases that do not meet any of the above criteria should be recorded
as an operating lease and reported in the notes of the financial statements.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 44.07 ASSET TRANSFERS AND DISPOSITIONS.
   (A)   Property should not be transferred, turned-in for auction, or disposed
of without prior approval of the department head. A vehicle/equipment
outprocessing checklist should be sent to the Town Clerk-Treasurer's Office in
all cases. This form is a dual-purpose form for transfer (defined as any
movement of an asset by virtue of change in location, either by account,
department, building, floor, or room) or retirement (disposal) of property.
   (B)   The main points to be remembered when using this form are:
      (1)   Always provide sufficient detail to properly identify the asset,
most importantly the asset's tag number or town ID;
      (2)   Be accurate and do not overlook any of the needed entries;
      (3)   Write legibly;
      (4)   Complete each column for every asset listed on the form;
      (5)   Enter information in correct row, depending on whether you are
transferring or deleting an asset;
      (6)   Have department head sign at the bottom of the form; and
      (7)   Return the form to the Town Clerk-Treasurer's Office.
   (C)   If an asset is stolen, the department should notify the Town Manager
as well as the Town Clerk-Treasurer's office.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 44.08 PERIODIC INVENTORIES.
   A physical inventory of all capital assets (any item over $5,000) will be
conducted not less than once every two years in each department on or about
December 31. The Town Clerk-Treasurer's office will conduct spot checks on a
random basis. Department heads will be accountable for the capital asset
inventory charged to their departments by verifying a list of their capital
assets.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 44.09 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CLERK-TREASURER'S OFFICE.
   The Fiscal Officer will ensure that accounting for capital assets is being
exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory, both initially and
periodically in subsequent years. The Fiscal Officer will further ensure that
the capital asset report will be updated annually to reflect additions,
retirements, and transfers and to reflect the new, annual capital asset balance
for financial reporting purposes.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 44.10 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT MANAGERS.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the department head to act as or designate
a steward for each piece of property. The steward will become the focal point
for questions regarding the availability, condition, and usage of the asset, as
well as the contact during the physical inventory process.
   (B)   Someone should be designated to record the receipt of the asset, to
examine the asset to make sure that no damage was incurred during shipment and
to make sure that the asset was received in working order.
   (C)   The steward is also responsible for arranging for the necessary
preventative maintenance and any needed repairs to keep the asset in working
condition. It is necessary to have a responsible person available for questions
that arise during a physical inventory or when someone wants to borrow the
asset. The steward ensures that the asset is used for the purpose for which it
was acquired and that there is no personal or unauthorized use. In addition,
the steward should report any property damage or theft.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
51.   ELECTRIC UTILITY
   
52.   WATER UTILITY
   
53.   SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS
   
54.   WELLHEAD PROTECTION
   
55.   BACKFLOW PREVENTION
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Superintendent of Utilities
   
50.02   Utility service contracts
   
50.03   Construction; plans and specifications required
   
50.04   Plumbers
   
50.05   Discontinuance of utility service
   
50.06   Claims
   
50.07   Rules and regulations for electric, water, and sewer services
§ 50.01 SUPERINTENDENT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   A Superintendent of Utilities shall be appointed by the Town Council.
Under the direction of the Town Council, the Superintendent shall have special
supervision of the buildings, machinery, conduits, pipes and mains, and all
other property and equipment connected with the utilities of the town. He or
she shall inspect all connections with service conduits, pipes and mains, the
excavating and filling of ditches for the same, and shall see that all
connections and hydrants are kept in good repair and condition. He or she shall
report all violations of any provisions, rules, or regulations of the code or
any other ordinance or amendment thereafter made.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall give bond to the State of Indiana as may be
required by law.
   (C)   Unless a Superintendent of Utilities is specifically appointed by the
Town Council, the Town Manager shall be the Superintendent of Utilities.
(1963 Code, Ch. 12, § 6) (Ord. 2-1927, passed 5-16-1927; Am. Ord. 1-2008,
passed 1-22-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Management and control of utilities, see I.C. 36-9-2-14 and 36-9-2-15
§ 50.02 UTILITY SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may in its discretion, at any time it deems it
necessary and proper, enter into written contracts with any owner or owners of
land, including owners of housing developments, in the vicinity of the town for
the furnishing by the town, through its municipal utilities, electric current
and/or water for the use of landowner or landowners, where the town is not
prohibited by law from so doing.
   (B)   Any contract entered into shall include, among other things, all the
terms and conditions under which the services shall be installed, maintained,
and operated, provided:
      (1)   Each ultimate consumer of the service shall be charged therefor at
rates charged to Hagerstown consumers generally;
      (2)   Connection charges shall be uniform to all consumers; and
      (3)   None of the services shall be furnished by the town until all
charges have been paid in full in accordance with the provisions of the
contract.
(1963 Code, Ch. 12, § 3) (Ord. 2-1960, passed 8-15-1960)
§ 50.03 CONSTRUCTION; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation locating conduits, pipelines or
mains, electrical wiring, or other similar underground structures under the
surface of any street, avenue, alley, or public ground or part thereof shall
present to the Town Council, or its designated officers, a written statement
specifying all streets, avenues, alleys, or public grounds or parts thereof in
which the conduits or similar structures are to be located, the size and
portion of the streets or other areas involved, the size of the conduit or
other structure to be used, and the distance from the surface of the street or
ground to the top of the conduit or other structure.
   (B)   The statement shall be accompanied by a map, profile, and
specifications, which shall show the proposed location with reference to grade
lines, the surface of the street or grounds, the dimensions and material of the
conduit or other structure, and the manholes, appliances, and connections to be
used therewith.
   (C)   The map, profile, and specifications shall be referred to the
Superintendent of Streets for suggestions with reference to the proposed
location of the conduits or other structure, in respect to other improvements.
The proposed location shall be changed if change is found necessary and
directed by the Town Council or its designated officers. The map, profile, and
specifications shall be furnished by and at the expense of the person, firm, or
corporation constructing the conduit or other structure, and, together with the
original statement referred to above, shall be filed in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer. The proposed construction shall be done in accordance with the
statement, map, profile, and specifications as approved.
   (D)   A change in location, material, or method of construction may be made
upon the application of the interested person, firm, or corporation and the
recommendation of the Superintendent of Streets; provided the change is
approved by resolution of the Town Council, and the person or company making
the change files with the Clerk-Treasurer an amended statement, map, profile,
and amended specifications describing the conduit or other structure, as
changed.
(1963 Code, Ch. 12, § 3) (Ord. 2-1960, passed 8-15-1960)
§ 50.04 PLUMBERS.
   Any plumber or pipe fitter who does any business for or in connection with
the Water Utility, the Electric Utility, or the Sewage Treatment Works of the
town shall be required to procure a license.
(1963 Code, Ch. 12, § 4) (Ord. 2-1960, passed 8-15-1960)
§ 50.05 DISCONTINUANCE OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   Any person desiring to discontinue the use of service supplied by any
utility of the town upon his or her premises shall give notice in writing at
the office of the utility.
(1963 Code, Ch. 12, § 8) (Ord. 2-1927, passed 5-16-1927)
§ 50.06 CLAIMS.
   No claim shall be made against the town because of the breaking of any
utility line, conduit, pipe, or service cock, or the breaking of machinery, or
the stoppage for necessary repairs of any of the machinery or equipment of the
utilities of the town.
(1963 Code, Ch. 12, § 7) (Ord. 2-1927, passed 5-16-1927)
§ 50.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ELECTRIC, WATER, AND SEWER SERVICES.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 51 (Electric Utility),
Chapter 52 (Water Utility), and
Chapter 53 (Sewage Treatment Works) of the Town Code, there may exist other
rules and regulations for the provisions of the electric, water, and sewer
services by the municipal utilities of the town. In the event that other rules
and regulations exist, they shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer in three separate volumes designated Volume 1: Electric Service Rules
and Regulations, Volume 2: Water Service Rules and Regulations, and Volume 3:
Sewer Service Rules and Regulations. Any such rules and regulations are hereby
approved, adopted, and established by reference hereto and incorporated herein
as though fully set forth herein, the rules and regulations to continue to
remain in effect hereafter.
   (B)   Any such rules and regulations of the electric, water, and sewer
utilities that may exist in Volumes 1, 2, and 3 as referenced in division (A)
above, may be amended from time to time hereafter by the Town Council by proper
motion and adoption by the Town Council as governing body of the town and town
utilities. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall place any amendment so adopted
by the Town Council in the appropriate volume or volumes of rules and
regulations for the utilities on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, all
of which shall be open to public inspection during established office hours for
business in the Town Hall.
(Ord. 12-1982, passed 12-20-1982; Am. Ord. 1-2008, passed 1-22-2008)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRIC UTILITY
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Purpose
   
51.003   Scope
   
51.004   Inspections
   
51.005   Vandalism; interference
   
51.006   Rules to govern electric power users
   
51.007   Security light service
   
51.008   Fuel cost adjustment and MISO adjustment
   
51.009   Power cost adjustment tracking factor
   
51.010   Future changes
   
51.011   Purchased power cost adjustment
Disposition of Certain Funds
   
51.020   Cash reserve fund
   
51.021   Transfer of cash reserve fund balance to general fund
Deposits and Permits
   
51.030   Deposits and permits
   
51.031   Other charges and fees; reconnections
Applications and Requests for Service
   
51.040   Applications and request for service
   
51.041   Landlord Transfer Agreement
Standard of Service
   
51.050   Intent of the Electric Utility
Requirements and Prohibitions
   
51.060   Description of electric current to be furnished
   
51.061   Service connections
   
51.062   Meters
Schedule of Services
   
51.075   Adoption of schedules
   
51.076   Outdoor lighting
   
51.077   Municipal street lighting
   
51.078   Schedule R
   
51.079   Schedule R terms and conditions
   
51.080   Schedule C and Schedule CI terms and conditions
   
51.081   Schedule S terms and conditions
Extension of Distribution and Service Lines
   
51.090   Authorization
   
51.091   Extension of service
   
51.092   Standard equipment
Disconnection of Electrical Service
   
51.100   Customer consent not required
Residential Wiring Code
   
51.110   Conformance
   
51.111   Required clearance
   
51.112   Meter and meter socket
   
51.113   Grounding requirements
   
51.114   Installation of service equipment
   
51.115   Breaker or fuse service panels; service entrance conductors
   
51.116   Inspection of wiring
   
51.117   Free conductors; junction boxes
   
51.118   Receptacles and outlets
   
51.119   Wire sizes
   
51.120   Underground service
   
51.121   Farm load centers
   
51.122   Trailers; mobile homes
   
51.123   Authority
Rates and Charges
   
51.135   Rates and charges
   
51.136   Rate schedule for residential electric service - Rate R
   
51.137   Rate schedule for commercial electric service - Rate C; and
commercial/industrial service - Rate CI
   
51.138   Rate schedule for electric primary power and light service - Rate S
   
51.139   Collection of fees and charges
   
51.140   Additional charges
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.145   Complaint procedure
   
51.146   Administration
   
51.147   Notice of violation
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Hagerstown Electric Utility.
   COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL. The elected legislative body of the town.
   CUSTOMER. Any person as defined in this chapter that consumes or is provided
electric power provided and/or distributed by the Hagerstown Electric Utility.
   DAY. The 24-hour period beginning at 12:01 a.m.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. The portion of the Electric Utility used to transport
electricity from the substation to the customer’s weatherhead.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for specific use of land owned by others.
   ELECTRIC UTILITY MANAGER or UTILITY MANAGER. Shall have the same meaning as
MANAGER, as defined in this section.
   FEDERAL. The government of the United States of America and/or regulatory
agencies thereof.
   HAGERSTOWN ELECTRIC UTILITY and ELECTRIC UTILITY. The authority controlling,
regulating, and maintaining the electric power distribution system and all its
facilities and components necessary to provide for generation, distribution,
purchase, and sale of electric current to the customer.
   HISTORY OF BEING PAST DUE.
      (1)   Having been past due on more than one occurrence during the
preceding 12-month period;
      (2)   Having any service disconnected as a result of nonpayment during
the preceding 24-month period; or
      (3)   Being past due on the date service is terminated. (This includes
those customers who requested service be terminated at one location (account)
and connected at a new location (account) as a result of moving to the new
location).
   INTERFERENCE. An intentional inhibition or disruption.
   KVA. Kilowatt voltage (ampere).
   KWH. Kilowatt hours.
   KWD. Kilowatt demand.
   MANAGER. The Director of Municipal Operation of the Hagerstown Electric
Utility, the Town Manager, or the authorized designee(s) of the Director or
Town Manager.
   MAST. See WEATHERHEAD.
   METER. The device used to measure use of electrical current.
   NON-OWNER, NON-OWNER CUSTOMER.  A customer who is not the owner of the
premises to which electric service is being provided, connected, or
disconnected, or otherwise affected by this chapter. This includes, but is not
limited to, tenants, lessees, and other occupants who are customers but do not
own the property to which services are provided.
   NON-OWNER OCCUPIED. A premises is considered to be NON-OWNER OCCUPIED when a
person other than the owner occupies or resides at the premises. This includes,
but is not limited to, premises or properties occupied by tenants, lessees, and
other occupants who are not owners.
   NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. A customer serviced by the terms of Schedules C,
CI, or S as set forth in this chapter.
   OTHER AUTHORITY. Other regulatory agencies (exercising enforcement powers).
   OWNER. The person that owns the premises to which electric service is being
provided, connected, or disconnected, or otherwise affected by this chapter.
   OWNER OCCUPIED.  A premises is considered to be OWNER OCCUPIED when the
owner of the premises occupies or resides at the premises.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, company, association, partnership, society,
corporation, or group.
   PRIMARY. The portion of the distribution system used to transport electric
current from the substation to the primary side of a transformer. PRIMARY LINES
serve specified geographic areas within the distribution system.
   PRIVATE. When used as a prefix, shall mean that portion of the electric
system for which the customer bears construction, maintenance, and repair
responsibility.
   PUBLIC. When used as a prefix, shall mean that portion of the electric
system for which the Electric Utility exercises control and bears construction,
maintenance, and repair responsibility.
   SECONDARY. The portion of the distribution system used to transport electric
current from the secondary side of the transformer to the service drop.
SECONDARY LINES serve individual customers.
   SERVICE DROP. The portion of the distribution system used to transport
electric current from the secondary to the customer’s weatherhead.
   SERVICE LINE. The private conductors used to transport current from the
weatherhead to the wiring system on the premises.
   SERVICE OWNER. The person in whose name a contract/permit is issued.
   STATE. The State of Indiana and/or regulatory agencies thereof.
   SUPERINTENDENT. When used in this chapter, shall have the same meaning as
MANAGER, as defined in this section.
   WEATHERHEAD. Any device approved by the National Electrical Code used to
terminate a service line outside a building. The device may also be called a
MAST. The Electric Utilities responsibility for construction, maintenance, or
repair terminates at the weatherhead.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 6-2003, passed 12-15-2003; Am. Ord.
2-2005, passed 4-4-2005; Am. Ord. 1-2008, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 51.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the maximum beneficial public
use of the town Electric Utility system, through regulation of construction,
use, and equitable distribution of costs and the provision of procedures for
complying with the requirements contained herein.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.003 SCOPE.
   The definition of terms used in this chapter are found in §
51.001. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all customers served by
the town Electric Utility.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.004 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Manager, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter customer properties at any reasonable time for the purpose
of inspection, observation, measurement, meter reading, or any other pertinent
purpose to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Manager, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all property at reasonable times, through which the town
holds an easement for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
repairs, and maintenance of any of the town electric facilities located within
the easement. All entry and subsequent work on the easement shall be done in
full accordance with the terms of the easement pertaining to the private
property involved.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private property referred to in
divisions (A) and (B) above, the Manager shall observe all safety rules
established and made known to the Manager by the owner or occupant of the
property and applicable to the premises when communicated by the owner or
occupant, but the town assumes no liability to any party for violations
thereof.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.005 VANDALISM; INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall maliciously or willfully interfere with the lawful
activities and operation of the town Electric Utility, nor shall any person
maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface,
or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment that is part of the
town Electric Utility. Any person who violates this section shall be subject to
a penalty for each such violation not to exceed $2,500. Civil action deemed
necessary by the town to recover loss/or damages incurred will not be abrogated
by the imposition of any penalties for the violation or by criminal proceedings
and/or dispositions under state or federal law, or limited by penalties
contained herein.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.006 RULES TO GOVERN ELECTRIC POWER USERS.
   The rules, regulations, electric rate schedules, fees, and charges shall be
considered a part of the contract with every person who is supplied with
electric power by the town Electric Utility, and every person using electric
power supplied by the Electric Utility shall be considered to have expressed
consent to be bound by the rules and regulations and to have agreed to the
payment of electric rates, fees, and charges.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.007 SECURITY LIGHT SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. To any customer within the area served by the Electric
Utility for outdoor lighting, as a private dusk-to-dawn service.
   (B)   Character of service. A 175-watt, 120-volt, mercury-vapor-type
luminary controlled by a photoelectric cell is the current character of service
to be installed, operated, and maintained by the Utility. However, the town and
Utility maintains the right, but not obligation, to change the character of the
service in the event that another character or type of service is preferable by
the town, provided that the service must be similar in nature to the current
character of service.
   (C)   Charge for service. A flat charge of $6.85 per unit per month is
required.
(Ord. 3-1965, passed 12-6-1965; Am. Ord. 10-1979; passed 11-5-1979; Am. Ord. 1-
1981, passed 2-2-1981; Am. Ord. 2-1982, passed 2-15-1982; Am. Ord. 1-1983,
passed 5-2-1983; Am. Ord. 1-1987, passed 3-16-1987; Am. Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-
21-1992; Am. Ord. 1-2008, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 51.008 FUEL COST ADJUSTMENT AND MISO ADJUSTMENT.
   The adjustment in dollars per kilowatt hour for fuel cost adjustment and for
the MISO (Midwest Independent Service Operator) adjustment shall be the same as
that most recently billed to the Electric Utility by its purchased power
supplier, and is applicable to, and shall be in addition to, Rate R in §
51.136, Rate C and Rate CI in §
51.137, and Rate S in §
51.138.
(Ord. 3-1965, passed 12-6-1965; Am. Ord. 9-1979, passed 7-16-1979; Am. Ord. 10-
1979, passed 11-5-1979; Am. Ord. 1-1981, passed 2-2-1981; Am. Ord. 7-1992,
passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 51.009 POWER COST ADJUSTMENT TRACKING FACTOR.
   This adjustment is occasioned solely by changes in the cost of purchased
power, as follows. Rate adjustment applicable to these rate schedules: R, C,
CI, and S. A decrease of $.002 per KWH used per month.
(Ord. 3-1965, passed 12-6-1965; Am. Ord. 4-1978, passed 12-18-1978; Am. Ord. 9-
1979, passed 7-16-1979; Am. Ord. 10-1979, passed 11-5-1979; Am. Ord. 7-1992,
passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 51.010 FUTURE CHANGES.
   When future changes occur in the cost of purchased power, thus causing a
change in §
51.009 above, which section was calculated in accordance with the order of the
Public Service Commission of Indiana approved on 12-17-1976 in cause No. 34614,
as may be hereafter amended by the Commission, the factor shall automatically
be changed accordingly and the Superintendent of the Electric Utility shall
cause the appropriate documents for approval of the change to be filed with the
Commission.
(Ord. 3-1965, passed 12-6-1965; Am. Ord. 4-1978, passed 12-18-1978; Am. Ord. 9-
1979, passed 7-16-1979; Am. Ord. 10-1979, passed 11-5-1979; Am. Ord. 7-1992,
passed 12-21-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Management and control of utilities, see I.C. 36-9-2-14 and 36-9-2-15
§ 51.011 PURCHASED POWER COST ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   This rate adjustment, applicable to Rate R in §
51.136, Rate C and Rate CI in §
51.137, and Rate S in §
51.138, provides solely for changes in the future cost of purchased power as
follows. Power costs billed to customers of the Electric Utility shall be
increased per kilowatt hour to the same extent of any increase billed to the
Electric Utility by its purchased power supplier.
   (B)   When future changes occur in the cost of purchased power, which would
cause a change in the purchased power cost adjustment, the adjustment shall
automatically be made accordingly and the Town Manager shall have the
appropriate rate schedule documents showing the change filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 1-1981, passed 2-2-1981; Am. Ord. 1-1983, passed 5-2-1983; Am. Ord. 7-
1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-4-2005)
DISPOSITION OF CERTAIN FUNDS
§ 51.020 CASH RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   A cash reserve fund is created for the town Electric Utility and
carried on the record of the utility, to which fund contributions or transfers
of surplus earnings of the Utility may be made.
   (B)   Surplus earnings are defined as those cash earnings remaining after
provisions have been made to pay current obligations, including those for
operating expenses, depreciation or replacement funds, or any other priority
fund requirements fixed by ordinance or by law.
   (C)   No transfer to the cash reserve fund shall be made unless or until a
depreciation or replacement fund has been established for the utility to which
shall accrue at least 5% of the operating revenues each month.
   (D)   There shall be transferred to the cash reserve fund the surplus
earnings of the utility. The transfers shall be made each calendar month upon
satisfying the terms set forth in division (C) above.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.021 TRANSFER OF CASH RESERVE FUND BALANCE TO GENERAL FUND.
   (A)   In each calendar year, the Council may transfer by resolution to the
municipal general fund an amount to compensate the town for taxes that would be
due the town on the Electric Utility property if it were privately owned. Each
transfer shall be billed on the value of the utilities assets as would be
subject to taxes on December 31 of the previous year. Provided, nevertheless,
the transfer shall not exceed the actual balance of the cash reserve fund as of
July 31 of the current year.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
DEPOSITS AND PERMITS
§ 51.030 DEPOSITS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   The following Deposit Requirement Schedule shall be applicable for all
applicants for electric utility service of the town:
Deposit Requirement Schedule
Customer Type Amount
Deposit Requirement Schedule
Customer    Amount
Type
Residential
home (owner
occupied)   $150
if total
electric
Residential
home
(nonowner   $150
occupied)
if total
electric
Residential
apartment   $150
if total
electric
Residential
home (owner
occupied)   $150
if partial
electric
Residential
home
(nonowner   $150
occupied)
if partial
electric
Residential
apartment   $150
if partial
electric
Apartment
houses,
multiple-
residential
dwelling    Amount equal to the estimate cost of electric to be used for a three-month
units, and  period as determined by the Town Manager, or an amount equal to $150 times
mobile home the total number of units (apartments, mobile homes), at the option of the
courts,     Town Manager
where each
unit is not
separately
metered
            15% of the active 12 months’ electric charges at the service address
Any         (including taxes), rounded to the nearest $100. If the service is at a new
customer on address, the 12-months’ charges will be estimated, based upon the type and
C, CI, or S size of the customer as compared to similar types and sizes of customers.
rate        Deposits are subject to periodic review, after which, the deposit may be
            adjusted to more accurately reflect the 15% requirement.
 
      (1)   When a previously-terminated account customer (nonowner or owner
occupied) returns to establish a new account after a period of time has
elapsed, and the prior account for utility service previously established a
history of being past due with the Hagerstown Electric Utility, the town may
double the regular deposit amount as provided above, and any amounts due or
written off as bad debts must be paid, and any collection or legal fees paid to
outside agencies must be reimbursed before a new account will be established.
      (2)   If an active account (nonowner or owner occupied) continually
becomes or remains past due (determined by the application of three or more
penalty charges against the account for late payment), or service has been
disconnected due to nonpayment, a deposit equal to double the schedule
established above may be required for continuation of or re-establishment of
service.
      (3)   The owner-occupied residential deposit is required as set forth in
the schedule above before electric utility service will be rendered.
         (a)   The deposit may be waived, however, and the owner deemed
creditworthy, if the owner applicant provides written confirmation from the
owner’s preceding utility company or companies (with Hagerstown Electric
Utility also qualifying as a preceding utility company) that the owner is
creditworthy, the confirmation covering a previous two-year period and
verifying that the applicant:
            1.   Has been a customer of the previous utility(ies) within the
past two years;
            2.   Is not past due on any bill at this time for service rendered
by the previous utility(ies);
            3.   Within the past one year, did not have more than one bill
which was delinquent to any utility; and
            4.   Within the past two years, did not have a service disconnected
by any utility for nonpayment of a bill for services rendered by the utility.
         (b)   If the owner-occupied applicant has not had service with any
utility company within the past two years, he or she must make a deposit as set
forth in the schedule above. After two years, the deposit may be refunded
subject to the conditions set forth below in the division addressing refunds.
      (4)   The nonowner-occupied residential deposit is required as set forth
in the schedule above before electric utility service will be rendered. When a
nonowner residential customer who is a current nonowner residential customer of
the Hagerstown Electric Utility moves to a new account (different location/
address), a new application for utility service shall be required. The previous
deposit will normally be transferred to the new account, however, if the
customer has developed a history of being past due, the old deposit shall stay
with the old account and a new deposit shall be required for the new account.
In this event, the deposit required on the new account may be double the
regular deposit requirement. The old deposit will be applied to the current and
final bills of the old account, and the balance, if any, will be refunded. If
the old account is past due on the moving date, a new account will not be
established until the old account is brought current. If the nonowner applicant
fails to pay the old account in full, the service will not be re-established
until the property owner has paid the balance of the old account. If, after the
final bill is prepared, the old deposit is not sufficient to cover the
remaining charges of the old account and the old account becomes past due, the
new account will be subject to service termination or disconnect as though the
two accounts were one. When planning a move, the business office of the town
should be given sufficient notice, the notice to be a minimum of three business
days, so that services can be terminated on the planned date of vacating the
premises. No additional deposit shall be required of a person with a current
electric account having made a deposit pursuant to the deposit schedule
provided if the person should change his or her name, nor shall a surviving
spouse be assessed an additional deposit upon transferring an account from the
deceased spouse’s name to the surviving spouse’s name, provided that the
account of the person or surviving spouse is paid current and within the past
one year, the account did not have more than one bill which became delinquent,
and within the past two years, the account did not have service disconnected
for nonpayment. Additionally, the town may require that the person, after his
or her name is changed, or the surviving spouse, as the case may be, complete
an application for utility service.
      (5)   Commercial, industrial, institutional, and government accounts
(those on C, CI, or S rate) shall be required to pay a deposit before electric
utility service will be rendered, the amount of which shall be determined by
the above schedule. If an account continually becomes or remains past due
(determined by the application of three or more penalty charges against the
account for late payment), or service has been disconnected due to nonpayment,
a deposit equal to double the amount determined by the above schedule will be
required for continuation of or reestablishment of service. If an account is
disconnected because of nonpayment, the deposit will be used to defray any or
all of the existing balance. Upon re-establishing the required deposit balance
(a surety bond may be required in order to cover the increased amount), the
payment of reconnect charges and payment of any charges not covered by the
deposit and/or surety bond, services will be restored. If a commercial,
industrial, institutional, or government deposit is more than $200, the
customer/applicant shall be allowed one of two options as follows.
         (a)   To make weekly installment payments until the total deposit
requirement is paid in full. The first payment shall be at least $200 and
installment payments shall not continue beyond eight weeks. Service shall be
connected upon receipt of the first such payment, but may be terminated at any
time, without notice, upon failure by the applicant or customer to make the
agreed upon installment payments and/or utility bill payments when due; or
         (b)   To provide an assigned surety bond from an approved underwriting
company for the deposit requirement. Service shall be connected upon receipt of
the surety bond.
   (B)   (1)   Cash deposits will be applied to the customer’s final bill after
which the balance, if any, will be refunded. Interest will not be paid on any
part of the deposit. Any balance due from the customer after application of the
deposit shall be due and payable on or before the date specified on the final
bill.
      (2)   Residential owner-occupied cash deposits may be refunded after two
years, if requested in writing, and, if the following conditions are met:
within the 12 month period preceding the date of the request, the owner/
occupant did not have more than one bill which became delinquent, and within
the 24 months preceding the date of the request, the owner/occupant did not
have service disconnected for non-payment. Non-residential surety bonds will be
canceled and returned to the principal within a reasonable time after all final
charges are paid.
      (3)   If the application of this chapter creates a refunded amount to be
given to the customer, the Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to refund to a
customer, without further act of Town Council, an amount not exceeding the
amount of the full deposit of the customer.
   (C)   Any person requesting temporary use of electric power shall secure a
permit from the Town Electric Utility. The permit shall be valid for only the
use as stated in the application and shall expire at the end of the use. The
fee for the permit shall be $50 for single-phase installations and further;
two-phase installations shall be the cost of the installation as determined by
the Town Manager, and shall be used to defray the electric utility’s cost in
providing the drop and setting the meter base and removing same after temporary
usage has been completed. The Town Manager shall make the determination if in
fact the requested usage is deemed as temporary use. Temporary users shall
comply with all other provisions of this chapter as to rates and regulations of
the Electric Utility.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-4-2005; Am. Ord. 3-
2009, passed 3-17-2009; Am. Ord. 10-2015, passed 11-16-2015)
§ 51.031 OTHER CHARGES AND FEES; RECONNECTIONS.
   (A)   In the case of apartment houses, multiple-residential dwelling units,
and mobile home courts, where the property is owned by one person, each
apartment, residential dwelling unit, and mobile home shall be considered a
separate residential unit for billing purposes.
      (1)   Where the physical structure(s) is/are such that it would be
economically prohibitive to separately meter each unit and more than one unit
is metered by a single meter, then the amount of the electric bill shall be
computed as follows.
         (a)   The minimum charge will be the current minimum charge as
established in the latest applicable residential rate schedule of the town
electric rate code multiplied by the number of units.
         (b)   The charge for usage shall be calculated on the total kilowatt
hours used at the current rate set forth in the latest applicable residential
rate schedule of the town electric rate code, but in no case shall the charge
be less than the minimum as defined in division (A)(1)(a) above.
      (2)   In the case of business or commercial houses or structures occupied
by more than one business where the property is owned by one person, each
business division shall be considered a separate commercial unit for billing
purposes. Where the physical structure(s) is/are such that it would be
economically prohibitive to separately meter each unit and more than one unit
is metered by a single meter, then the amount of the electric bill shall be
computed as follows.
         (a)   The minimum charge will be the current minimum charge as
established in the latest applicable commercial rate schedule of the town
electric rate code multiplied by the number of units.
         (b)   The charge for usage shall be calculated on the total kilowatt
hours used at the current rate set forth in the latest applicable commercial
rate schedule of the town electric rate code, but in no case shall the charge
be less than the minimum as defined in division (A)(2)(a) above.
   (B)   In all cases of multiple-billing units with one master meter, the
electric charges shall be billed to the owner of the property served and the
owner shall be responsible for the payment thereof.
   (C)   (1)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this
chapter are due no later than 15 days from the date of billing as set forth in
any utility billing of the town ("due date" or "Due Date"). In the event that
any service charges are not paid on or before the due date, the unpaid charges
are delinquent and shall be subject to a late fee or penalty of 10% of the
delinquent amount. In addition to incurring a late fee or penalty charge, in
the event that any fee and/or charge is not paid in full within ten days of the
due date, and the customer not having before the expiration of said ten days
requested a hearing in writing submitted to the Town Clerk-Treasurer before the
utility board concerning accrued charges, fees, and penalties, it shall result
in the services to the customer being disconnected. Fees and deposits
associated with any reconnection of services shall be as set forth in this
chapter, and the deposit may increase as a result of a disconnection, pursuant
to the deposit requirement schedule. The bill sent to the customer will
indicate that if the bill remains delinquent for a period of ten days after the
due date thereof, and the customer not having requested the hearing referenced
herein, it shall result in the services to the customer being disconnected, and
there shall be no further notice provided prior to discontinuance of service.
      (2)   In addition to any fees and charges, including late fees, in the
event that the town takes any action to recover delinquent or unpaid fees and
charges, the customer shall be responsible for any and all costs of collection
incurred by the town, including, but not limited to, attorney fees and/or any
fees paid to a collection agency.
   (D)   A service charge of $75 shall be collected for reinstating any service
after a work order has been issued to disconnect for nonpayment of charges.
Additionally, any past due or delinquent fees and/or charges must be paid in
full prior to reconnection.
   (E)   Service may be temporarily disconnected on a temporary vacation status
not to exceed six months. The charge shall be $25 for each disconnect and
reconnect of the electric service if accomplished within the normally scheduled
working hours of the Electric Utility employees. There shall be an additional
$15 fee assessed for each disconnect and reconnect if requested by service
owner to be accomplished outside of the normally scheduled working hours of the
Electric Utility employees. The disconnection service shall only apply to the
occupants of the premises in question wherein a temporary vacancy exists for
the above stated purpose and the occupants in question will return to occupy
the premises. Any request is to be made at least two working days prior to
owner’s departure to allow for scheduling by Electric Utility personnel.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-4-2005; Am. Ord. 1-
2008, passed 1-22-2008; Am. Ord. 10-2013, passed 11-4-2013; Am. Ord. 5-2015,
passed 7-20-2015; Am. Ord. 5-2021, passed 5-3-2021)
APPLICATIONS AND REQUESTS FOR SERVICE
§ 51.040 APPLICATIONS AND REQUEST FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   One person may, at the town’s discretion, be named on the contract or
permit application as the service owner. Applications for electric service
shall be in writing and be delivered in person at the business office of the
town on a form provided by the town entitled “Application for Utility Service.”
      (1)   Any requirements of a cash deposit, connection or reconnection fee,
or other fees, and/or credit worthy criteria, as provided in this chapter,
shall be paid and/or submitted before any utility service will be rendered,
including:
         (a)   Request for a permit to connect to the Electric Utility;
         (b)   Disconnections or reconnections for nonpayment, improper
tampering or use, or vacation status;
         (c)   Owner or non-owner initiated discontinuance of service. A
written request is required and must be completed using a form provided by the
town, entitled “Request for Discontinuance of Service.” The form shall contain
a release to be signed by any non-owner customer (if applicable) and the owner
of the property. The customer is required to be present for any final readouts.
All fees and charges not paid shall be due and payable on or before the due
date reflected on the final bill; and
         (d)   Landlord Transfer Agreement.
      (2)   In order for utility service to be rendered to an applicant, owner,
or non-owner, all prior accounts and amounts due or written off as bad debt
regarding the applicant or in the applicant’s name must be paid, and any
collection costs or legal fees paid to outside agencies or parties as a result
of the applicant’s failure to pay must be reimbursed before a new account will
be established for that applicant.
      (3)   Any request for service shall be made to the Electric Utility no
less than 72 hours in advance of the time service is desired, excluding non-
business days. If the requested service involves construction, equipment
installation, or special considerations, the request shall be made to the
Electric Utility no less than 45 days in advance of the time service is
desired.
   (B)   Any customer requesting utility service at a different location than
where that customer currently has, or previously had, service, shall be
required to complete an application for utility service for that specific
location on the form provided by the town, and to pay the deposit and following
the procedures regarding the payment of deposit, as set forth in §
51.030, at the time that the customer submits the application in person at the
business office of the town.
   (C)   When submitting the application for utility service, the applicant
will be asked for proof of identification (driver’s license or state issued ID
preferred). This is necessary to aid in the collection process, if necessary,
and to eliminate possible falsification of customer information. The
appropriate town personnel at the town’s business office will make a copy of
the proof document and attach it to the application.
   (D)   If the applicant is not the owner of the property to which service is
being requested (non-owner customer), the property owner or a properly
authorized agent of the property owner shall sign the owner’s certificate
section of the application. The signature of the owner must be notarized or
signed in the presence of a representative of the town, who shall witness the
application at the business office as provided therein. The signature of the
application by an applicant is an acknowledgment that the applicant understands
and agrees to the responsibilities, requirements, including, but not limited
to, the payment and deposit requirements set forth in this chapter, and the
applicant’s agreement to comply with the Town Code relevant to utility
services.
   (E)   After reviewing the application for completeness, the town will
determine the deposit required, if any, and review computer and/or other
records to verify that the applicant has no previous history of being past due
and for any previous account balances that may still be owed to the town. Upon
payment of any required cash deposit, a receipt will be issued by the town to
the applicant.
   (F)   Copies of the application for utility service form will be available
at the business office of the town for use by potential applicants, property
owners, non-owner customers, and those who are new construction homeowners.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-4-2005; Am. Ord. 1-
2008, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 51.041 LANDLORD TRANSFER AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Owners of property wherein there is a non-owner customer receiving
electric service, may, but shall not be required to, complete a Landlord
Transfer Agreement form. The forms shall be made available by the town to
property owners upon request of the property owner. The Landlord Transfer
Agreement is applicable where a property owner leases, rents, or otherwise
allows occupancy or use by a non-owner customer.
   (B)   The owner of the property may enter into an agreement with the town to
provide for the continuance of electric service in the event that the terms of
this chapter would otherwise result in a voluntary or involuntary termination
of the service to the property. In such an event, the owner would be
requesting, as part of the Landlord Transfer Agreement, that the town continue
electrical service to the property instead of actually disconnecting the
electrical service based on nonpayment by the non-owner customer. In exchange
for the town not disconnecting the service, the owner agrees to and would be
responsible for and pay all electrical service charges for services rendered to
the property from the date that the town would otherwise be authorized to
disconnect the service until the date that the town contracts with a new non-
owner customer, the owner, or a new owner of the property, pursuant to the
application process set forth in §
51.040, to be responsible for the electrical service and charges. Any such
transfer would not occur in instances where disconnection is a result of a
condition that is dangerous to health, physical safety, or property. Any such
Landlord Transfer Agreement must be in a form adopted by the Town Council, and
the owner must agree to and be responsible for the terms set forth therein. In
the event that the Town Council adopts a revised or amended Landlord Transfer
Agreement, the owner may be required to enter into the revised or amended
Landlord Transfer Agreement in order to continue the utility services
thereunder.
   (C)   A Landlord Transfer Agreement would be treated as an application for
services, and as such, would require any and all required paperwork and any
deposit or deposits required by the town as set forth in this chapter,
depending on the amount of properties listed as part of the Landlord Transfer
Agreement and based on the creditworthiness of the owner as an applicant, as
set forth in this chapter for any other applicant for service. Failure to
provide the required paperwork and any deposits, if applicable, would result in
the town not entering any Landlord Transfer Agreement.
(Ord. 1-2008, passed 1-22-2008)
STANDARD OF SERVICE
§ 51.050 INTENT OF THE ELECTRIC UTILITY.
   (A)   The town Electric Department shall attempt to maintain a viable
distribution system for the provision of electrical power commensurate with
accepted trade standards and practices.
   (B)   The Electric Utility reserves the right to interrupt service to any
customer at any time due to failure of equipment, to effect necessary repairs
to equipment, testing of service lines or equipment, or any reason that is
determined by the Manager that is in the best interests of the town.
   (C)   The Electric Utility further reserves the right to interrupt or
terminate the supply of electricity without notice, for the following reasons:
      (1)   For repairs;
      (2)   For lack of supply;
      (3)   For nonpayment of charges and fees when due;
      (4)   For interference with any of the electric utilities appliances or
connections thereto; and
      (5)   For failure to comply with the terms of this chapter or the
contract/permit. The discontinuance shall not invalidate any contract with the
town Electric Utility and the town Electric Utility retains the right to
enforce any contract/permit the discontinuance notwithstanding.
   (D)   The town and Electric Utility shall not be liable for damages incurred
by the customer or other parties due to reduced voltages, power surges, or the
interruption or stoppage of the electric current or for damages caused by
defective wiring on or in the customers premises and further, the Electric
Utility shall not be held liable for acts of nature or acts of man beyond the
control of the Electric Utility.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS
§ 51.060 DESCRIPTION OF ELECTRIC CURRENT TO BE FURNISHED.
   The customer shall provide in writing upon request of the Electric Utility a
list of the devices which are to be attached to the utilities electric
distribution system to include the location of the premises. The Electric
Utility will then advise the customer of the form, voltage, and description of
the electric current the utility will furnish. The town Electric Utility may
require contractual time frames of longer duration when unusual construction or
equipment expense is incurred by the Electric Utility in the provision of
electric service to the customer.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.061 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The Electric Utility will locate the point where the service
connection will be brought to the premises. The wires at the entrance run shall
extend no less than three feet beyond the upper and outer end of a weatherproof
fitting commonly called the weatherhead or mast. Customers desiring an
underground service connection from the overhead wires shall at their own
expense install and maintain service wires in conduit from a meter board on
their premises to and up the utility pole where the connection is to be made.
   (B)   The Electric Utility will extend its service lines a reasonable
distance as determined by the Manager for the purpose of supplying electric
service for a new connection. Any changes requested by the customer after
installation of the service connection shall be at the customer’s expense.
   (C)   Customers of the Electric Utility shall at their own expense equip and
maintain their premises with all wiring and entrance equipment constructed and
maintained in accordance with accepted standards and practices as set forth in
state and local building codes whichever shall be the most stringent. The
construction and maintenance shall be subject to inspection and approval by the
Electric Utility Manager or authorized designee.
   (D)   When required by the form of service to be installed as shall be
determined by the Manager, the customer shall provide, at no expense to the
town or Electric Utility, a suitable place near the service entrance for the
installation of transformers, meters, or other devices furnished and installed
by the Electric Utility.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.062 METERS.
   (A)   Any and all services shall be metered unless otherwise specified in
writing and approved by the town. The meter shall be of standard manufacture
designed to measure the use of electric current in accordance with rules and
standards of the Public Service Commission of the state and the regulations of
the Electric Utility.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions and responsibilities of property owners set
forth in §
51.092 of this chapter, meters shall be furnished and installed by the Electric
Utility. Except for those meters provided by and at the expense of the property
owner pursuant to §
51.092, meters shall remain the property of the utility. Meters shall not be
tampered with under penalty of law.
   (C)   The placement of the meter shall be at the option of the Electric
Utility.
   (D)   Upon the installation and registration of the meter or meters, all
bills other than service charges, rents, or fees shall be calculated from usage
readings registered by the meter.
   (E)   If more than one meter is installed with individual meters registering
different classes of service being charged at different rates, each meter usage
shall be considered independently when calculating usage for billing purposes.
   (F)   When for the convenience of the Electric Utility more than one meter
is installed for the same class of service, the sum of the registration from
all meters shall be the total and the total usage calculated for billing
purposes.
   (G)   The Electric Utility shall test the accuracy of registration of a
single phase meter at seven-year intervals. The Manager may, with the
concurrence of the Council, conduct tests at shorter intervals if deemed
necessary.
   (H)   The Electric Utility will test the accuracy of registration of a
single phase meter upon written request of a customer to do so and upon the
customer depositing a $25 fee with the Electric Utility. If the meter is found
to be within the allowable limit of 2% plus or minus error, the deposit shall
be retained by the Electric Utility. If the meter is found to be registering in
excess of the allowable plus limit, the deposit fee shall be refunded to the
depositor.
   (I)   The Electric Utility will test the accuracy of registration of three-
phase or demand meters upon written request of a customer to do so and upon the
customer depositing the actual cost of testing the meter as determined by the
Manager. If the meter is found to be within the allowable limit of 2% plus or
minus error, the deposit shall be retained by the Electric Utility. If the
meter is found to be registering in excess of the allowable plus limit, the
deposit fee shall be returned to the depositor.
   (J)   If upon test of any meter at the request of a customer the registering
thereof is found to be greater than 2% on the fast side of the limit, the
Electric Utility shall refund upon the customer’s written request an amount
equal to the excess charged without interest for electricity incorrectly
metered for a period equal to one-half of the time elapsed from the previous
test, but not for a period greater than six months.
   (K)   If upon test of any meter at the request of a customer it is found to
be greater than 2% on the slow side of the limit, the Electric Utility may make
a charge to the customer for electricity incorrectly metered for a period equal
to one-half of the time elapsed since the previous test but not for a period
greater than six months.
   (L)   If a meter is found not to have registered for any period, the
Electric Utility shall estimate the charge for electricity usage by averaging
the amounts registered over similar periods preceding or subsequent thereto, or
over corresponding periods in previous years.
   (M)   No part of the customer charge or the minimum charge for usage and the
receipt of service on customer billing shall be subject to refund or additional
assessment by the Electric Utility in cases of meter error except as set forth
above.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 1-2009, passed 2-17-2009)
SCHEDULE OF SERVICES
§ 51.075 ADOPTION OF SCHEDULES.
   The following schedules are adopted for use by the Town Electric Utility:
   (A)   Schedule C and Schedule CI - Nonresidential and Commercial Single- and
Three-Phase Service;
   (B)   Schedule R Residential Single-Phase Service; and
   (C)   Schedule S School Electric Service (and other demand metering
applications).
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 6-2003, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 51.076 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   For each lamp with luminaire and upsweep arm which shall not measure
over six feet in length, controlled by a photoelectric relay, where service is
supplied from an existing pole and secondary facilities of the Electric
Utility, the rate of charges, rents, and fees shall be set by the Council per
lamp. The lamp shall be 7,000 lumen mercury or sodium vapor equivalent. When
new facilities must be installed by the Electric Utility, the customer shall in
addition to the monthly charge pay in advance the installation costs of the
overhead facilities extending from the nearest or most suitable utility pole of
the Electric Utility to a point designated by the customer for the installation
of the lamp.
   (B)   Contracts for outdoor lighting service shall be for not less than one
calendar year for residential or farm customers, not less than three years for
commercial or industrial customers, and not less than five years for all other
customers.
   (C)   All facilities and equipment necessary for services including
fixtures, controls, poles, transformers, secondaries, lamps, and other
appurtenances shall be owned and maintained by the Electric Utility.
   (D)   All services and necessary maintenance shall be performed only during
regularly scheduled working hours of Electric Utility employees. Nonfunctioning
bulbs shall be replaced in a timely manner as determined by the Electric
Department after notification by the customer. However, no discount or
adjustments of charges, rents, or fees shall be returned to the customer due to
temporary interruptions of service.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.077 MUNICIPAL STREET LIGHTING.
   (A)   The municipal street lighting rate shall apply to all street lighting
service furnished to the town by the Electric Utility.
   (B)   The type of fixture to be installed shall conform to the standards
established by the Electric Utility, and as determined by the Electric Utility
consist of either mercury vapor or sodium vapor fixtures.
      (1)   The rated size in lumens of the fixtures shall be determined by the
Electric Utility and shall be adequate to provide an intensity of illumination
in accordance with generally accepted standards for the location and use
involved, taking into consideration factors such as width of streets, traffic
conditions, and spacing of adjacent lamps.
      (2)   The Electric Utility shall install, operate, and maintain all
street lighting equipment and appurtenances to include lamp replacements.
   (C)   Additional lamps may be installed or reduced only upon authorization
of Council to expand the municipal lighting system.
   (D)   All street lighting service meters shall be read monthly and the total
KWH furnished shall be billed to the town in accordance with the rates
established in the most recent edition of the town Electric Rate Code. The town
shall pay the Electric Utility for the service in the manner specified by state
law.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.078 SCHEDULE R.
   (A)   Schedule R Residential Single-Phase Electric Service shall be made
available system-wide to all residential customers meeting the definition found
in division (B) below as determined by the Electric Utility and located within
the service area of the municipal electric distribution system of the Electric
Utility. All applications for service shall be in accordance with and conform
to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Schedule R is applicable only to service supplied to premises
designated and recognized as single-family, residential home or farmhouse use.
This includes apartments, mobile homes, and other dwelling quarters wherein
each unit is individually occupied by an owner or tenant as a residence.
   (C)   Where electric service is supplied for combined residential and
nonresidential or commercial use, the higher of the two rates shall apply. The
customer shall have the option to separate the wiring at their expense subject
to inspection and approval of the Electric Department, and each class of
service shall accordingly be separately metered and billed.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.079 SCHEDULE R TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All applications for scheduled service shall be made in the name of
the property owner or tenant who shall become the customer and who shall be
responsible for payment of all charges, rents, and fees. Where premises are
occupied by a tenant, the Electric Utility may advise the property owner of
delinquent rents, charges, and fees and the Electric Utilities intent to
discontinue service, and further the Electric Utility may advise the property
owner of tenant initiated discontinuance of service. In all cases, the customer
retains the right to discontinue services contracted in their name. In no case
will both tenant and owner be assessed dual billing for the same charge, rent,
or fee payable. Nothing in this section shall be construed as being in conflict
with or negating §
51.076 of this chapter.
   (B)   The type of service furnished under Schedule R shall be single-phase
with the potential of approximately 120/240 volts, three-wire 60 Hertz.
However, the Electric Utility may elect to furnish 120 volt two-wire service.
Single-phase service shall not be furnished where individual single-phase
motors larger than five-horse power are installed, except where written
permission is granted by the Manager. Where three-phase primary distribution is
in place immediately adjacent or in close proximity to the customers premises
and in the Electric Utilities opinion the customers use of three-phase service
would justify the additional investment, the Electric Utility may furnish
three-phase service under Schedule C.
   (C)   Multiple-dwelling units under Schedule R are applicable where not more
than single dwelling units consisting of single-family homes, apartment, mobile
home, or other individual living quarters is supplied through one meter. If
more than a single dwelling unit is supplied through one meter, the customers
minimum charge shall be the applicable rate multiplied by the number of units
served. For new services supplied subsequent to the date of this chapter, the
Electric Utility may require, prior to service being provided, that all single-
dwelling units, living quarters, or apartments be individually wired and
metered for separate billing under Schedule R.
   (D)   Schedule R is applicable for house heating service where in the
service installation conforms to the specifications and conditions hereinafter
set forth.
      (1)   All electric space heating equipment shall consist of a permanent
installation in compliance with applicable state and local building and
mechanical codes with maximum connected KVA explicitly stated. The equipment
may consist of individual room-resistance space heating units, reversed cycle
refrigeration units, or central furnace units. In no case shall any such
heating equipment exceed a 25-KWH demand.
      (2)   The entire heating installation to include; heating units, wiring,
controls, duct works, and building insulation shall be subject to inspection
and approval by the Electric Utility manager prior to the provision of service.
      (3)   Wherein a home is heated by means of circulating hot water system
using a resistance operated hot water heating unit, and the heating units
aggregate rated capacity exceeds ten KWH with a maximum of 25 KWH, Schedule R
shall apply.
      (4)   (a)   A budget billing plan will be made available to a customer in
a single family residence upon approval by the Electric Utility. A residential
occupant must be a customer of the Hagerstown Electric Utility for a period of
at least 12 months in the same residence immediately proceeding the time for
which budget billing is being requested before making an application for budget
billing approval for that residence.
         (b)   The Hagerstown Electric Utility will bill the customer each
month 1/12 of the estimated cost of service for a 12 month period under the
schedule set forth in §
51.136 herein, with said 12 month period commencing with the bill associated
with the first full month billing term after the request for the monthly
billing plan is approved by the electric utility, and will continue thereafter
month-by-month for then subsequent months. During this period of 11 months, the
cost of each month’s service calculated under the rate will be charged to the
customer’s electric account, and all payments made by the customer will be
credited to his or her electric account. The bill rendered for the twelfth
month will be properly adjusted for the difference between the actual billing
during the first 11 months and the payments made by the customer for service
during the period. If at any time during the first 11 months the customer’s
consumption, including variable costs of furnishing service, of electricity
increases to such an extent that it is apparent that the estimate for the
year’s service and the resultant monthly payments differ by more than 20% from
the amount of the budget billing payments, the Hagerstown Electric Utility
retains the right to revise the estimate and increase the monthly billing
accordingly.
         (c)   The budget billing amount must be paid on or before the due date
each month to allow the budget billing plan customer to continue to qualify for
budget billing privileges. If the budget billing amount is not paid on or
before the due date in two successive or non-successive months within a budget
period, the budget billing privilege for the owner-occupant budget billing plan
customer will be discontinued and the owner-occupant will not be qualified to
apply for budget billing payments for at least 12 months following the end of
the current budget billing plan period.
         (d)   Upon being disconnected, the full balance due for electric
service will become immediately due and payable and reconnection fees will be
added. If disconnect of electric service occurs in any month because of non-
payment before the published disconnect date, the budget billing privilege for
the owner-occupant budget billing plan customer will be immediately terminated.
Following the disconnect, the owner-occupant will not be qualified to apply for
budget billing privileges for at least 24 months following the end of the
current budget billing plan period.
      (5)   Service provided under this schedule shall not be resold or
submetered.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 13-2009, passed 12-1-2009; Am. Ord.
15-2017, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 51.080 SCHEDULE C AND SCHEDULE CI TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Schedule C Nonresidential and Commercial Single- and Three- Phase
Service is available and applicable for single- and three-phase service for all
nonresidential and commercial electric service not specified as applicable to
Schedule R residential services. This shall include but not be limited to:
electric service furnished to retail and wholesale business concerns, small
industrial manufacturing and or processing concerns, hotels, motels, tourist
inns, retail stores, restaurants, vehicle service stations, professional
offices, theaters, schools, churches, clubs, lodges and professional buildings,
and further for all other uses that are not ordinarily classified as being
residential in character.
   (B)   Where single-phase service is furnished, the applicable monthly
customer charge shall apply for not less than four consecutive months each time
that service is established in any given name. Any disconnection of single-
phase service shall be subject to the reconnection fee assessed by the Electric
Utility any time that service is reconnected in the same name.
   (C)   Where three-phase service is furnished, the applicable monthly
customer charge shall apply on a chronological basis of not less than 12
consecutive months, or longer as may be specified in the electric service
agreement between the Electric Utility and the customer. Any seasonal
disconnection of three-phase service shall not negate or allow avoidance of the
applicable monthly service charge.
   (D)   Services available in Schedule C shall be supplied through a single
set of service wires to a single meter location. The voltage supplied shall be
at the Electric Utilities option in either 120/240 volt single phase, three-
wire service, or 240 volt three-phase, three-wire or four-wire service, or 120-
208 volt three-phase service or such other voltage and wire combinations as the
Electric Utility at its option may make available. If a customer requests a
voltage or wiring combination that the Electric Utility does not provide or is
deemed nonstandard by the Electric Utility, the customer shall be required to
obtain written permission from the Electric Utility to construct or install the
transformers and other equipment necessary to deliver the voltages. The
equipment, installations, constructions, and continuous proper maintenance of
same shall be at the customer’s expense.
   (E)   All motors five-horse power and larger shall be equipped with reduced
voltage starting equipment or other control devices that will reduce, curtail,
and avoid creating voltage surges on the Electric Utilities system. This
requirement may be waived only by written permission from the Electric Utility.
   (F)   The Electric Utility shall have no obligation to furnish three-phase
service if the Utility deems that it is not practical or economical to do so.
The Electric Utility may enter into contracts with the customer to recoup
economic investments for installation of the services.
   (G)   All service shall be delivered through a single set of service wires
to a single service location designated by the Electric Utility. A separate
bill shall be rendered for each different meter location wherein more than one
set of service wires exist, or where the customers service entrance switches or
the Electric Utilities meters are at a different location.
   (H)   At any premise wherein there occurs mixed usage of schedules of
service, all service may be billed under one schedule to be determined by the
Electric Utility. The customer may at their own expense separate the wiring
upon inspection and approval by the Electric Utility, and each class of service
shall be metered and billed separately with the applicable rate schedule.
   (I)   Where three-phase service is furnished by the Electric Utility, the
utility shall determine wire combinations.
   (J)   Rate C may be applied to agricultural uses outside the corporate
limits of the town wherein single-phase or three-phase service is supplied only
for applications that are part of the commercial agricultural operation and are
usually considered to be nonresidential usages of electric power. Separation of
services may be accomplished per division (H) above.
   (K)   Meter readings shall be actual reading and not estimations with
billings computed from the actual readings.
   (L)   The Electric Utility shall have the option to meter the customers
electric energy usage at either the secondary or primary voltage.
   (M)   Service provided under this schedule shall not be resold or
submetered.
   (N)   The terms and conditions set forth in this section shall be applicable
to Rate C and Rate CI customers. However, in the event that there are
additional terms and conditions found in §
51.137 and §
51.138 regarding Rate CI, the terms set forth in those sections shall take
precedence over any terms in this section.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 6-2003, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 51.081 SCHEDULE S TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Schedule S shall be applied to public schools supplied by the town
Electric Utility distribution system.
   (B)   Schedule S shall be metered and usage fees assessed on the latest
applicable power demand usage rate formula as set forth in latest applicable
rate schedule of the town Electric Rate Code.
   (C)   Customers expanding present facilities or building new facilities
requiring electric power under the terms and conditions of Schedule S shall
notify the Electric Utility of their power requirements and prior to connection
the Electric Utility shall formulate and adopt an applicable rate consistent
with projected power usage demand.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
EXTENSION OF DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE LINES
§ 51.090 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Electric Utility is granted the authority to construct, own, operate,
and maintain all facilities necessary to render services in the provision of
electrical energy to customers weatherheads.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.091 EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   All new line extensions to permanent installations involving an
aggregate distance greater than 250 feet by combining primary line, secondary
line, and service drop line shall be subject to the conditions set forth in
this section.
   (B)   The Electric Utility, upon receipt of proper application, may extend
without additional charge, electric service lines to a customers premises,
provided the estimated revenue received in a 30-month period by the Utility by
the provision of the extension is equal to or greater than the costs incurred
by the Electric Utility in providing the service.
   (C)   If anticipated revenue is less than costs that can be recouped in a
30-month period in the provision of a requested service extension, the Electric
Utility may enter into a contract with the customer wherein the customer agrees
to pay the monetary difference between actual cost and estimated revenue.
   (D)   In any event, if in the opinion of the Electric Utility a requested
service extension would provide the little revenue that a fair return on
investment would not be present, the Electric Utility may enter into a contract
wherein the customer agrees to pay for all or an agreed upon portion of the
costs of the service extension.
   (E)   All cost and revenue estimates will be determined by the Electric
Utility. If an applicant is required to pay for any portion of a service
extension, the Electric Utility shall upon written request by the customer,
provide cost documentation in regard to construction and estimated revenue.
   (F)   All extensions of service shall require that a written agreement be
executed between the Electric Utility and the customer. The Electric Utility
may require proof of financial responsibility, wherein the customer may be
assessed a portion of the costs in the provision of the extension.
   (G)   The customer, upon prior approval of the Electric Utility, may install
the service line(s) from the electrical supply distribution system to the
premises served, subject to the following prerequisites.
      (1)   Before constructing the installation, the customer must submit
plans and designs for the construction to the Electric Utility.
      (2)   The Electric Utility shall review the plans and either approve or
disapprove of same.
      (3)   The Electric Utility shall monitor and approve all construction
prior to energizing the service lines.
      (4)   The customer may request after the service line(s) are constructed
transfer of ownership of same to the Electric Utility. The transfer of
ownership shall be accomplished only if the Town Council approves the request.
   (H)   The Electric Utility shall be responsible for furnishing and setting
the first and last utility poles in extensions of service requested by a
property owner. Each interim utility pole and overhead spans required to be
furnished and set may be at the expense of the property owner, if other
arrangements have not been contractually agreed upon.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be constructed or construed as limiting
the powers of the Electric Utility and the Town Council to exercise their right
to either approve or disapprove requests to extend electrical service or to
enter into agreements with other utilities.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.092 STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Electric Utility shall furnish all pole-mounted transformers not
exceeding 75 KVA in rated capacity. Transformers exceeding 75 KVA in rated
capacity may be at the expense of the property owner. However, nothing in this
section shall be constructed or construed as limiting the powers of the
Electric Utility or the Town Council to provide and install any and all
electrical equipment, standard and nonstandard, it deems prudent and necessary
in the provision of services.
   (B)   The Electric Utility may enter into contracts with property owners to
share costs of purchasing and installing electrical equipment. The Electric
Utility and Town Council may also enter into agreements with property owners in
regard to assigning ownership and maintenance responsibility of co-purchased
and installed equipment.
   (C)   The Electric Utility shall furnish and install all standard meters
that do not exceed 200 amperes rated capacity. All meter bases, and all meters
exceeding 200 amperes in rated capacity, shall be furnished and installed by
and at the expense of the property owner. All meter bases and any meters
supplied by the property owner must be conducive to and compliant with the
electric utility improvements of the town, and must comply with any and all
local, state, and federal regulations. Meter bases furnished and installed by
the property owners, as well as meters furnished and installed by the property
owners, shall remain the property of the property owner. The Electric Utility,
at its expense, may test any meter for accuracy and require any such defective
metering equipment to be replaced. If the metering equipment which is defective
is metering equipment that is required to be provided by the property owner,
any expenses associated with such replacement shall be the responsibility of
the property owner.
   (D)   The Electric Utility deems all underground electrical wiring
installations as nonstandard construction and as such these installations may
be at the expense of the property owner.
   (E)   The Electric Utility deems all changes or modifications to existing
equipment and installations requested by the customer, including, but not
limited to, redesigning, re-engineering, relocating, removing, or reinstalling
any electric distribution facilities as nonstandard construction and as such,
may be at the expense of the property owner.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 1-2009, passed 2-17-2009)
DISCONNECTION OF ELECTRICAL SERVICE
§ 51.100 CUSTOMER CONSENT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Electric Utility may physically disconnect any service supplied by
it to a customer without prior notification to the customer and without consent
of the customer under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If continuation of service would pose a hazard to life, property,
or grievous personal injury;
      (2)   Upon order of any court of competent jurisdiction or other duly
authorized public authority;
      (3)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of the Electric Utilities service
is detected and the Electric Utility has reasonable grounds to believe the
customer is responsible for the use;
      (4)   If the Electric Utilities regulating or measuring equipment has
been tampered with and the Electric Utility has reasonable grounds to believe
the customer is responsible for the tampering;
      (5)   In order to facilitate emergency repairs; and/or
      (6)   Due to an inadequate supply of energy to distribute.
   (B)   The Electric Utility shall make a reasonable effort to notify
customers in regard to power interruptions and/or disconnections over which it
has control a minimum of 24 hours prior to the interruption. The notifications
may be in the form of, but not limited to, direct verbal communication, postal
mailings, and public notice through the media. However, the Electric Utility
and the civil town assume no liability for the interruption as set forth in §
51.050(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
RESIDENTIAL WIRING CODE
§ 51.110 CONFORMANCE.
   All electrical wiring, materials, devices, and electrical equipment
installed shall conform to the standards of the National Board of Fire
Underwriters, as set forth in the most recent edition of the National
Electrical Code, and all subsequent amendments and additions thereof unless
this code shall be more stringent.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.111 REQUIRED CLEARANCE.
   All weatherheads shall be located with sufficient height to maintain the
following clearances.
   (A)   All service wires shall have a 10-foot ground clearance over lawns,
sidewalks, and the like, an 8-foot clearance over readily accessible roofs, a
3-foot clearance over all other roofs, an 18-foot ground clearance over
driveways, and a 27-foot ground clearance over railroads.
   (B)   Service conductors shall have a 3-foot clearance from windows, doors,
porches, fire escapes, and the like.
   (C)   Where a 10-foot ground clearance cannot be maintained on service
wires, a service mast shall extend approximately 30 inches minimum and 36
inches maximum above the roof.
   (D)   Pipe size for the service mast shall not be less than two inches in
diameter and shall have a suitable weatherhead designed to protect the service
line from the elements. The mast shall be securely attached to the building
with pipe straps or clamps.
   (E)   A minimum of 24 inches of service wire shall extend beyond the
weatherhead to facilitate connection of the service drop.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.112 METER AND METER SOCKET.
   The meter socket and meter if of standard capacity shall be furnished by the
Electric Utility. The meter socket shall be counted approximately five feet,
six inches above finished grade. Its location shall be determined by the
Electric Utility and shall be installed as part of the service entrance by the
customers electrician.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.113 GROUNDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Grounding shall be to a 1/2-inch driven ground rod with a minimum length of
ten feet. The ground rod shall be copper or copper clad. The meter base shall
be grounded with a minimum of number 6 solid copper wire.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.114 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE EQUIPMENT.
   Service equipment may be installed on the first floor or in the basement of
a building. It shall not be installed in an attic, on the second floor, or in
an area normally designated as a closet. In every case, service conductors
shall leave the building in the shortest run possible. Service conductors shall
not run laterally in the hollow part of a wall.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.115 BREAKER OR FUSE SERVICE PANELS; SERVICE ENTRANCE CONDUCTORS.
   (A)   A minimum of a 100 amperes service panel shall be installed in the
construction of new homes.
      (1)   A minimum of a 200 ampere service panel shall be installed on homes
wherein electricity is used as the main heating source.
      (2)   The Electric Utility recommends that the size of service on large
or total electric homes be discussed with the utility in order to decide upon
an adequate service sizing.
   (B)   Breaker service panels or fuse service panels, and service entrance
conductor, size requirements are as follows.
      (1)   One hundred ampere service requires two-strand copper wire with a
number 4 strand copper wire neutral as a minimum.
      (2)   Two hundred ampere service requires a number 3/0 copper wire with a
number 2 strand copper wire neutral as a minimum.
      (3)   All panels shall provide a minimum of twelve 125-volt lighting and
appliance circuits.
   (C)   Not more than 36 inches of service entrance conductors or cable shall
be concealed between the meter socket and the service panel without a main
disconnecting switch being installed at the meter socket.
      (1)   Service entrance conductors shall run no farther than 20 feet
exposed between the meter socket and service panel unless a main disconnecting
switch is installed at the meter socket.
      (2)   If properly sized service entrance conductors are installed in a
metallic raceway (conduit), no limit shall be placed on the length of run from
the meter socket to the service panel.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.116 INSPECTION OF WIRING.
   (A)   The Electric Utility Manager shall conduct inspections of wiring in
order to ascertain compliance. All requests for inspection shall be made 24
hours in advance of actual need.
   (B)   All wiring shall be neatly and completely installed, except for
fixtures that the Manager may direct to the left open for inspection purposes.
All wiring shall be subject to two inspections, one being a rough-in, and the
other the completed installation.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.117 FREE CONDUCTORS; JUNCTION BOXES.
   A minimum of six inches of free conductor shall be left at each outlet and
switch for the purposes of making joints or connections and for fixture
devices. The fixtures and devices shall be left open for final inspection. All
junction boxes shall be readily accessible.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.118 RECEPTACLES AND OUTLETS.
   (A)   Receptacles shall be located a minimum of every six feet measured
horizontally along the wall. Any 2-foot interruption in wall space shall be
included in the six feet. This shall also apply to kitchens; except, as outlet
every four feet, with no more than two outlets per circuit, shall be provided
for usable counter space.
   (B)   Each two outlets shall be fused for 20-amp capacity. No overhead
fixtures shall be allowed on any outlet circuit. No more than eight outlets
shall be allowed on any circuit.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.119 WIRE SIZES.
   (A)   All wire shall be number 12 copper or larger. All receptacles in
basements, garages, bathrooms, and kitchen counter spaces shall be a grounded
type. Receptacles installed on number 3 wire, 30-amp and 50-amp branch circuits
may not be of the grounded type as the National Electrical Code permits the
grounded neutral conductor to serve as the equipment ground for ranges and
clothes dryers served by 120/240 volt three-wire circuits. These are the only
appliances wherein the neutral may be used for an equipment ground.
   (B)   A minimum of three-wire number 10 copper with ground is required for
water heaters of 30 gallons or more capacity. In all cases, the white colored
covered wire or bare wire shall be used to ground the frame of the water
heater.
      (1)   If a breaker-type service panel is used, the water heater may be
connected to a 30-amp two-pole breaker in the main (distribution) panel.
      (2)   In a fused-type main panel, the water heater shall be connected to
a 30-amp pullout circuit protector.
      (3)   Any water heater or dryer located a distance greater than ten feet
from the main service panel shall have a separate 30-amp disconnecting means
located within five feet of the appliance. Fusing shall not exceed the capacity
of the wire. The number 10 wire may run a maximum distance of 50 feet. If the
run distance is greater than 50 feet, the wire shall be one size larger (size
number 8).
         (a)   A minimum of three number 10 copper wires shall also apply to
the dryer.
         (b)   Three number 6 copper wires shall be used for 50-amp range
circuits.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.120 UNDERGROUND SERVICE.
   All wire used for underground service shall be insulated for underground
applications. A conduit shall be used at both ends of the underground service.
A circuit breaker shall be provided at the starting end before the service goes
underground. All wire, conduits, circuit breakers, and the like shall be
furnished and installed by the customers electrical contractor and at the
customers expense.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.121 FARM LOAD CENTERS.
   (A)   Load centers shall be of the meter pole type with a minimum of 200-amp
capacity. Three/zero copper wire in conduit or 3/0 copper entrance cable shall
be used. No entrance cable shall be used in conduit.
   (B)   If two 100-amp breakers are used, number 2 strand copper wire may be
used from the meter to each individual breaker.
   (C)   The combination meter and breaker box shall be furnished by the
Electric Utility. The breakers shall be furnished by the Electric Utility and
both the combination box and breakers shall be installed by the customers
electrical contractor at the customers expense. The meter box and breaker box
combination shall not be mounted on Electric Utility transformer poles.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.122 TRAILERS; MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   If a service pole is required it shall be furnished and installed by
the customer at the customer’s expense upon approval by the Electric Utility.
The meter base shall be furnished by the Electric Utility and installed by the
customers electric contractor at the customers expense.
   (B)   A minimum 30-amp breaker box or fuse box shall be furnished by the
customer at the customers expense and installed by the customers electric
contractor at the customers expense and shall immediately follow the meter
installation. Wire size shall not be less than number 6 copper.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.123 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Hagerstown Electric Utility may refuse service to anyone failing
to comply with the requirements of this chapter or who installs electric
service which is deemed hazardous by the utility to persons or property.
   (B)   The latest applicable edition and subsequent amendments thereof of the
National Electrical Code shall in all cases be the standard of compliance
required in all applications and uses of electric energy.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.135 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges to be made and collected by the town from the
consumers of services provided by the electric light and power distribution
system of the town in respect to the following shall be determined and
collected in accordance with the respective schedules therefor:
   (A)   Residential;
   (B)   Commercial;
   (C)   Power;
   (D)   Rural residential;
   (E)   Rural commercial; and
   (F)   Space heating and/or air conditioning.
(1963 Code, Ch. 12, § 24) (Ord. 8-1958, passed - -; Am. Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-
21-1992)
§ 51.136 RATE SCHEDULE FOR RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC SERVICE - RATE R.
   (A)   Rate R.
      (1)   (a)   From the November 1, 2022 billing date through the April 1,
2023 billing date, the following rates shall apply:
 
For the first 60 KWH or less used in the same month              $0.229 per KWH
For the next  190 KWH (61 KWH to 250 KWH) used in the same month $0.133 per KWH
For the next  750 KWH (251 KWH to 1,000 KWH) used in the same    $0.102 per KWH
              month
For all over  1,000 KWH used in the same month                   $0.085 per KWH
 
         (b)   Monthly minimum service charge. Notwithstanding the Rate R
schedule above, the minimum charge for service rendered hereunder shall be
$9.38 per month.
      (2)   (a)   From the May 1, 2023 billing date through the October 1, 2023
billing date, the following rates shall apply:
 
For the first 60 KWH or less used in the same month              $0.252 per KWH
For the next  190 KWH (61 KWH to 250 KWH) used in the same month $0.146 per KWH
For the next  750 KWH (251 KWH to 1,000 KWH) used in the same    $0.112 per KWH
              month
For all over  1,000 KWH used in the same month                   $0.094 per KWH
 
         (b)   Monthly minimum charge. Notwithstanding the Rate R schedule
above, the minimum charge for service rendered hereunder shall be $10.32 per
month.
      (3)   (a)   From the November 1, 2023 billing date and thereafter, the
following rates shall apply:
 
For the first 60 KWH or less used in the same month              $0.272 per KWH
For the next  190 KWH (61 KWH to 250 KWH) used in the same month $0.158 per KWH
For the next  750 KWH (251 KWH to 1,000 KWH) used in the same    $0.121 per KWH
              month
For all over  1,000 KWH used in the same month                   $0.102 per KWH
 
         (b)   Monthly minimum charge. Notwithstanding the Rate R schedule
above, the minimum charge for service rendered hereunder shall be $11.15 per
month.
(Ord. 3-1965, passed 12-6-1965; Am. Ord. 10-1979, passed 11-5-1979; Am. Ord. 1-
1981, passed 2-2-1981; Am. Ord. 2-1982, passed 2-15-1982; Am. Ord. 1-1983,
passed 5-2-1983; Am. Ord. 1-1987, passed 3-16-1987; Am. Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-
21-1992; Am. Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-4-2005; Am. Ord. 13-2009, passed 12-1-2009;
Am. Ord. 2-2011, passed 4-18-2011; Am. Ord. 4-2022, passed 8-12-2022; Am. Ord.
8-2025, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 51.137 RATE SCHEDULE FOR COMMERCIAL ELECTRIC SERVICE - RATE C; AND
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL SERVICE - RATE CI.
   (A)   Availability. Available for commercial and industrial service to
customers located on the Utility’s electric distribution lines that are
adequate and suitable for supplying the required service.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, 60 cycles, at any standard
secondary, single phase and/or three phase voltage supplied by the Utility in
the locality for which the service is requested.
   (C)   Rate C and Rate CI.
      (1)   Rate C. In the event that a commercial or industrial customer does
not qualify for Rate CI, pursuant to the terms set forth below for Rate CI to
be applicable, the following Rate C shall apply.
         (a)   From the November 1, 2022 billing date through the April 1, 2023
billing date, the following rates shall apply:
 
For the first 80 KWH or less used per month                      $0.229 per KWH
For the next  120 KWH (81 KWH to 200 KWH) used in the same month $0.171 per KWH
For the next  2,300 KWH (201 KWH to 2,500 KWH) used in the same  $0.131 per KWH
              month
For the next  2,500 KWH (2,501 KWH to 5,000 KWH) used in the     $0.114 per KWH
              same month
For all over  5,000 KWH used in the same month                   $0.102 per KWH
 
         (b)   From the May 1, 2023 billing date through the October 1, 2023
billing date, the following rates shall apply:
 
For the first 80 KWH or less used per month                      $0.252 per KWH
For the next  120 KWH (81 KWH to 200 KWH) used in the same month $0.188 per KWH
For the next  2,300 KWH (201 KWH to 2,500 KWH) used in the same  $0.144 per KWH
              month
For the next  2,500 KWH (2,501 KWH to 5,000 KWH) used in the     $0.125 per KWH
              same month
For all over  5,000 KWH used in the same month                   $0.112 per KWH
 
         (c)   From the November 1, 2023 billing date and thereafter, the
following rates shall apply:
 
For the first 80 KWH or less used per month                      $0.272 per KWH
For the next  120 KWH (81 KWH to 200 KWH) used in the same month $0.219 per KWH
For the next  2,300 KWH (201 KWH to 2,500 KWH) used in the same  $0.168 per KWH
              month
For the next  2,500 KWH (2,501 KWH to 5,000 KWH) used in the     $0.146 per KWH
              same month
For all over  5,000 KWH used in the same month                   $0.131 per KWH
 
      (2)   Rate CI. In the event that a single-phase or three-phase commercial
or industrial customer exceeds 100 KWD for a 60 minute peak in any given month,
Rate CI shall be applicable. For any month in which Rate CI is applicable, the
following monthly charges shall apply:
         (a)   1.   From the November 1, 2022 billing date through the April 1,
2023 billing date, the following rates shall apply:
An administrative cost charge                             $62.35
Metering charges:                                          
   Primary voltage metering (2,400 volts to 12,470 volt$249.30
   Secondary voltage metering (480 volts or lower)     $37.40
Peak demand charge                                        $14.50 per KWD
Energy charge                                             $0.046 per KWH
Variable energy charge component                          **See below
KVAR charge                                               $0.325 per KVAR
**A variable energy charge component will be determined monthly based on rate
adjustments riders charged by the town’s purchased power supplier. A form for
computation of the variable energy charge component shall be on file with the
Town Manager, and shall be available for review by any person.
 
            2.   Special terms and conditions applicable to Rate CI.
               a.   At the option of the town, service hereunder may be metered
at secondary voltage levels (480 volts or lower). In the event this occurs,
before computing the charges, the actual measurement of energy and demand will
be increased by 1% to compensate for un- metered transformer losses.
               b.   The metered peak demand shall be the customer's highest
average 60-minute KWD load in the billing period and shall be measured by
suitable recording instruments provided by the town.
               c.   The billed KVAR demand shall be determined by trigonometric
calculation using the customer's peak 60-minute demand interval for the billing
period and the average power factor for the billing period.
               d.   At the discretion of the town, an electric service
agreement may be required prior to the rendering of electric service.
            3.   Monthly minimum charge. The minimum charge for service
rendered hereunder shall be $8.75 per month plus $1.55 per horsepower of
connected motor load.
            4.   Special terms and conditions.
               a.   All service furnished hereunder may be through one meter or
through not more than one meter for single phase service and one meter for
three phase service except as allowed in division (C)(2)(a)4.b. below.
               b.   Energy for electric space heating through a separate meter
will be furnished and billed separately at the rate of $0.663 per KWR with a
$8.97 monthly minimum charge.
               c.   Excess facilities. The town will normally install the
facilities required to supply electric service to the customer at one point of
delivery, through one meter or metering installation, at one delivery voltage
and, where necessary, through one transformation. In the event that the
customer requests facilities from the town which are in addition to or in
substitution for the standard facilities normally provided by the town
(hereinafter "excess facilities"), the town may provide and install such excess
facilities under the following conditions.
                  i.   The type extent, and location of such excess facilities
shall be mutually agreed to by the town and the customer.
                  ii.   Such excess facilities shall be and remain the property
of the town.
                  iii.   The customer shall agree to pay the town a monthly
excess facilities charge equal to 2% of the estimated installed cost of the
excess facilities.
                  iv.   In the event that the requested facilities are to be
substituted for the standard facilities normally provided by the town, and are
not in addition thereto the monthly excess facilities charge shall be 2% of the
difference (excess) between the cost of the facilities actually installed and
the cost of the standard facilities normally provided by the town.
                  v.   ln lieu of a monthly excess facilities charge, as
outlined in divisions (C)(2)(a)4.c.iii. and iv. above the town and customer may
mutually agree to an optional one-time, nonrefundable payment which shall be
calculated by multiplying the estimated cost of installing the excess
facilities times 1.30, which reflects an estimate of required maintenance by
the customer for such excess facilities. Any excess facilities shall be and
remain the property of the town.
                  vi.   In the event that the excess facilities are abandoned
prior to the term of the contract from the date service is first supplied from
such excess facilities the customer shall pay to the town the total cost of
installing such excess facilities plus the cost of the removal, less the
estimated salvage value.
            5.   Collection charges, reconnection charges, other charges. As
set forth in the applicable sections of this chapter.
         (b)   1.   From the November 1, 2022 billing date through the April 1,
2023 billing date, the following rates shall apply:
An administrative cost charge                             $68.60
Metering charges:                                          
   Primary voltage metering (2,400 volts to 12,470 volt$274.25
   Secondary voltage metering (480 volts or lower)     $41.15
Peak demand charge                                        $15.95 per KWD
Energy charge                                             $0.051 per KWH
Variable energy charge component                          **See below
KVAR charge                                               $0.358 per KVAR
**A variable energy charge component will be determined monthly based on rate
adjustments riders charged by the town’s purchased power supplier. A form for
computation of the variable energy charge component shall be on file with the
Town Manager, and shall be available for review by any person.
 
            2.   Special terms and conditions applicable to Rate CI.
               a.   At the option of the town service hereunder may be metered
at secondary voltage levels (480 volts or lower). In the event this occurs,
before computing the charges, the actual measurement of energy and demand will
be increased by 1% to compensate for un- metered transformer losses.
               b.   The metered peak demand shall be the customer's highest
average 60-minute KWD load in the billing period and shall be measured by
suitable recording instruments provided by the town.
               c.   The billed KVAR demand shall be determined by trigonometric
calculation using the customer's peak 60-minute demand interval for the billing
period and the average power factor for the billing period.
               d.   At the discretion of the town, an electric service
agreement may be required prior to the rendering of electric service.
            3.   Monthly minimum charge. The minimum charge for service
rendered hereunder shall be $9.65 per month plus $1.70 per horsepower of
connected motor load.
            4.   Special terms and conditions.
               a.   All service furnished hereunder may be through one meter or
through not more than one meter for single phase service and one meter for
three phase service except as allowed in division (C)(2)(b)4.b. below.
               b.   Energy for electric space heating through a separate meter
will be furnished and billed separately at the rate of $0.729 per KWH with a
$9.87 monthly minimum charge.
               c.   Excess facilities. The town will normally install the
facilities required to supply electric service to the customer at one point of
delivery, through one meter or metering installation, at one delivery voltage
and, where necessary, through one transformation. In the event that the
customer requests facilities from the town which are in addition to or in
substitution for the standard facilities normally provided by the town
(hereinafter "excess facilities"), the town may provide and install such excess
facilities under the following conditions.
                  i.   The type, extent, and location of such excess facilities
shall be mutually agreed to by the town and the customer.
                  ii.   Such excess facilities shall be and remain the property
of the town.
                  iii.   The customer shall agree to pay the town a monthly
excess facilities charge equal to 2% of the estimated installed cost of the
excess facilities.
                  iv.   In the event that the requested facilities are to be
substituted for the standard facilities normally provided by the town, and are
not in addition thereto, the monthly excess facilities charge shall be 2% of
the difference (excess) between the cost of the facilities actually installed
and the cost of the standard facilities normally provided by the town.
                  v.   In lieu of a monthly excess facilities charge as
outlined in divisions (C)(2)(b)4.c.iii. and iv. above, the town and customer
may mutually agree to an optional one-time, nonrefundable payment which shall
be calculated by multiplying the estimated cost of installing the excess
facilities times 1.30, which reflects an estimate of required maintenance by
the customer for such excess facilities. Any excess facilities shall be and
remain the property of the town.
                  vi.   In the event that the excess facilities are abandoned
prior to the term of the contract from the date service is first supplied from
such excess facilities, the customer shall pay to the town the total cost of
installing such excess facilities plus the cost of the removal, less the
estimated salvage value.
            5.   Collection charges, reconnection charges, other charges. As
set forth in the applicable sections of this chapter.
         (c)   1.   From the May 1, 2023 billing date through the October 1,
2023 billing date, the following rates shall apply:
An administrative cost charge                             $74.10
Metering charges:                                          
   Primary voltage metering (2,400 volts to 12,470 volt$296.20
   Secondary voltage metering (480 volts or lower)     $44.45
Peak demand charge                                        $17.25 per KWD
Energy charge                                             $0.055 per KWH
Variable energy charge component                          **See below
KVAR charge                                               $0.387 per KVAR
**A variable energy charge component will be determined monthly based on rate
adjustments riders charged by the town’s purchased power supplier. A form for
computation of the variable energy charge component shall be on file with the
Town Manager, and shall be available for review by any person.
 
            2.   Special terms and conditions applicable to Rate CI.
               a.   At the option of the town, service hereunder may be metered
at secondary voltage levels (480 volts or lower). In the event this occurs,
before computing the charges, the actual measurement of energy and demand will
be increased by 1% to compensate for un- metered transformer losses.
               b.   The metered peak demand shall be the customer's highest
average 60 minutes KWD load in the billing period and shall be measured by
suitable recording instruments provided by the town.
               c.   The billed KVAR demand shall be determined by trigonometric
calculation using the customer's peak 60 minute demand interval for the billing
period and the average power factor for the billing period.
               d.   At the discretion of the town, an electric service
agreement may be required prior to the rendering of electric service.
            3.   Monthly minimum charge. The minimum charge for service
rendered hereunder shall be $10.40 per month plus $1.85 per horsepower of
connected motor load.
            4.   Special terms and conditions.
               a.   All service furnished hereunder may be through one meter or
through not more than one meter for single phase service and one meter for
three phase service except as allowed in division (C)(2)(c)4.b. below.
               b.   Energy for electric space heating through a separate meter
will be furnished and billed separately at the rate of $0.787 per KWH with a
$10.66 monthly minimum charge.
               c.   Excess facilities. The town will normally install the
facilities required to supply electric service to the customer at one point of
delivery through one meter or metering installation at one delivery voltage
and, where necessary, through one transformation. In the event that the
customer requests facilities from the town which are in addition to or in
substitution for the standard facilities normally provided by the town
(hereinafter “excess facilities”), the town may provide and install such
excess facilities under the following conditions.
                  i.   The type, extent, and location of such excess facilities
shall be mutually agreed to by the town and the customer.
                  ii.   Such excess facilities shall be and remain the property
of the town.
                  iii.   The customer shall agree to pay the town a monthly
excess facilities charge equal to 2% of the estimated installed cost of the
excess facilities.
                  iv.   In the event that the requested facilities are to be
substituted for the standard facilities normally provided by the town, and are
not in addition thereto the monthly excess facilities charge shall be 2% of the
difference (excess) between the cost of the facilities actually installed and
the cost of the standard facilities normally provided by the town.
                  v.   In lieu of a monthly excess facilities charge, as
outlined in divisions (C)(2)(c)4.c.iii. and iv. above the town and customer may
mutually agree to an optional one-time, non-refundable payment which shall be
calculated by multiplying the estimated cost of installing the excess
facilities times 1.30, which reflects an estimate of required maintenance by
the customer for such excess facilities. Any excess facilities shall be and
remain the property of the town.
                  vi.   In the event that the excess facilities are abandoned
prior to the term of the contract from the date service is first supplied from
such excess facilities, the customer shall pay to the town the total cost of
installing such excess facilities plus the cost of the removal less the
estimated salvage value.
            5.   Collection charges, reconnection charges, other charges. As
set forth in the applicable sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 3-1965, passed 12-6-1965; Am. Ord. 10-1979, passed 11-5-1979; Am. Ord. l-
1981, passed 2-2-1981; Am. Ord. 2-1982, passed 2-15-1982; Am. Ord. 1-1983,
passed 5-2-1983; Am. Ord. 1-1987, passed 3-16-1987; Am. Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-
21-1992; Am. Ord. 6-2003, passed 12-15-2003; Am. Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-4-2005;
Am. Ord. 2-2011, passed 4-18-2011; Am. Ord. 4-2022, passed 8-12-2022; Am. Ord.
8-2025, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 51.138 RATE SCHEDULE FOR ELECTRIC PRIMARY POWER AND LIGHT SERVICE - RATE S.
   (A)   Availability. Available for any customer having a billing demand load
of 25 kilowatts to 99 kilowatts, except as hereinafter provided. Applicant must
be located adjacent to an electric transmission or distribution line of the
Utility that is adequate and suitable for supplying the service required.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current having a frequency of 60
cycles and furnished in accordance with the provision set forth hereunder.
   (C)   Rate.
      (1)   From the November 1, 2022 billing date through the April 1, 2023
billing date, the following rates shall apply:
 
Maximum load charge (monthly) $5.16 per kilowatt of billing maximum load in the
                              month
Minimum charge                The monthly maximum load charge shall in no case
                              be less than $109.65 per month
Energy charge (in addition to the maximum load charge)
Consumption per month         Per KWH
For each KWH used             $0.067
 
      (2)   From the May 1, 2023 billing date through the October 1, 2023
billing date, the following rates shall apply:
 
Maximum load charge (monthly) $5.68 per kilowatt of billing maximum load in the
                              month
Minimum charge                The monthly maximum load charge shall in no case
                              be less than $120.60 per month
Energy charge (in addition to the maximum load charge)
Consumption per month         Per KWH
For each KWH used             $0.074
 
      (3)   From the November 1, 2023 billing date and thereafter, the
following rates shall apply:
 
Maximum load charge (monthly) $6.13 per kilowatt of billing maximum load in the
                              month
Minimum charge                The monthly maximum load charge shall in no case
                              be less than $130.25 per month
Energy charge (in addition to the maximum load charge)
Consumption per month         Per KWH
For each KWH used             $0.080
 
   (D)   Adjustments. Maximum load and energy measurements, and the charges
derived therefrom, are subject to adjustment for:
      (1)   Metering at a secondary voltage. Service hereunder may be metered
at a secondary voltage which is designated as a standard voltage of
approximately 460 volts, or lower, in which event, before applying any other
adjustments or computing the charges, the maximum load and energy measurements
shall each be increased by 3% to convert to the equivalent of service metered
at a primary voltage.
      (2)   Power factor. The monthly maximum load will be adjusted for monthly
lagging power factor to convert to billing maximum load, in accordance with the
following formula:
         Billing maximum load   =   Maximum load x 85
                        Lagging Pf. (in %)
   (E)   Minimum charge. The monthly maximum load charge shall in no case be
less than than that amount specified above for each applicable time period.
(Ord. 3-1965, passed 12-6-1965; Am. Ord. 10-1979, passed 11-5-1979; Am. Ord. l-
1981, passed 2-2-1981; Am. Ord. 2-1982, passed 2-15-1982; Am. Ord. 1-1983,
passed 5-2-1983; Am. Ord. 1-1987, passed 3-16-1987; Am. Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-
21-1992; Am. Ord. 6-2003, passed 12-15-2003; Am. Ord. 2-2005, passed 4-4-2005;
Am. Ord. 2-2011, passed 4-18-2011; Am. Ord. 4-2022, passed 8-12-2022; Am. Ord.
8-2025, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 51.139 COLLECTION OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid to the town Electric Utility. The fees and charges as set forth
herein or as established in the latest applicable rate schedule of the town
Electric Rate Code shall constitute fees payable.
   (B)   Fees, penalties, and charges collected under this chapter shall be
used for the purpose of constructing, operating, or maintaining the Electric
Utility facilities of the town, the retirement of debt incurred for same
pursuant to state or federal law, or other expenditures as may be allowed by
law.
   (C)   (1)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this
chapter are due no later than 15 days from the date of billing as set forth in
any utility billing of the town ("due date" or "Due Date"). In the event that
any service charges are not paid on or before the due date, the unpaid charges
are delinquent and shall be subject to a late fee or penalty of 10% of the
delinquent amount. In addition to incurring a late fee or penalty charge, in
the event that any fee and/or charge is not paid in full within ten days of the
due date, and the customer not having before the expiration of said ten days
requested a hearing in writing submitted to the Town Clerk-Treasurer before the
utility board concerning accrued charges, fees, and penalties, it shall result
in the services to the customer being disconnected. Fees and deposits
associated with any reconnection of services shall be as set forth in this
chapter, and the deposit may increase as a result of a disconnection, pursuant
to the deposit requirement schedule. The bill sent to the customer will
indicate that if the bill remains delinquent for a period of ten days after the
due date thereof, and the customer not having requested the hearing referenced
herein, it shall result in the services to the customer being disconnected, and
there shall be no further notice provided prior to discontinuance of service.
      (2)   In addition to any fees and charges, including late fees, in the
event that the town takes any action to recover delinquent or unpaid fees and
charges, the customer shall be responsible for any and all costs of collection
incurred by the town, including, but not limited to, attorney fees and/or any
fees paid to a collection agency.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 1-2008, passed 1-22-2008; Am. Ord.
10-2013, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 51.140 ADDITIONAL CHARGES.
   Any and all individual accounts, for which electricity is actually supplied
and not utilized simply for administrative purposes, of all billed customers of
the electric light and power distribution system of the town shall have, in
addition to all current rates and charges of the town's Electric Utility, a $5
fee added to each utility billing of the town. Said fee shall be collected in
accordance with that process set forth in §
51.139 above. This fee shall commence as of the October 1, 2019, billing date.
Following the expiration of ten years from the commencement date of the fee the
Town Council shall review, in a regularly scheduled and advertised public
meeting, the fee to determine if the same should be rescinded or utilized for a
then necessary electric utility project.
(Ord. 8-2019, passed 9-17-2019)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.145 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any customer may direct any electric service related complaint,
concern, or question to the Electric Utility business office.
   (B)   If the issue in question cannot be resolved at the Electric Utility
business office, the customer shall be afforded the opportunity to appear
before the Town Council acting as the Electric Utility Board within a
reasonable time to hear the complaint, question, or concern which shall be
submitted in writing to the Town Council five days prior to the meeting date
set for the appearance. The customer shall be advised of the time and place for
the appearance in such a timely manner as to accomplish the requirements.
   (C)   The Town Council acting as the Electric Utility Board may consider the
facts as it deems necessary for the resolution of the issue(s) at hand, and
shall make known the necessity for further investigation or its decision to the
customer within 15 days of the customers appearance before the Town Council. A
final decision following additional investigation by the town shall be made
known to the customer in writing within 60 days of the initial appearance
before the Town Council by the customer, unless by joint agreement between town
and customer it is agreed that a reasonable time extension shall be allowed due
to extenuating circumstances.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.146 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as may be otherwise provided herein, the Manager of the town Electric
Utility shall administer, implement, and cause enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.147 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found in violation of this chapter or any requirement of a permit
issued hereunder, may be served with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for compliance if the violation
does not constitute an immediate health or safety hazard. Any such notice shall
be given in writing and served in person or by registered or certified mail.
The notice shall be sent to the last address of the violator known to the
Manager. When the address is unknown, service may be made on the owner of
record as shown by Wayne County, Indiana, tax records of the property involved.
If satisfactory action is not forthcoming in the time allotted in the notice,
the penalty section of this chapter shall be invoked.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 7-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 52: WATER UTILITY
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Purpose
   
52.03   Scope
   
52.04   Administration
   
52.05   Notice of violation
   
52.06   Collection of fees and charges
   
52.07   Inspections
   
52.08   Rate schedule
   
52.09   Vandalism
   
52.10   Rules to govern water users
   
52.11   Severability
   
52.12   Cash reserve fund
   
52.13   Transfer of cash reserve fund balance to general fund
   
52.14   Applications and request for service; deposits and permits
   
52.15   Reconnections
   
52.16   Intent of the Water Utility
   
52.17   Water meters
   
52.18   Service pipes
   
52.19   Termination of water service
   
52.20   Discontinuance of service
   
52.21   Usage of water during emergencies
   
52.22   Taking water from hydrants or fixtures without authorization
   
52.23   Granting of service to users outside the town limits
   
52.24   Complaint procedure
   
52.25   Landlord Transfer Agreement
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing and Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The Town Water Utility.
   BUILDING MAIN. The portion of the distribution system consisting of private
service pipe, meter settings, and all other materials needed to transport water
from the public service pipe to the customer’s premises.
   COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL. The elected legislative body of the town.
   CURB STOP. A valve installed on or near a property line used to stop the
flow of water into a building main, and is the terminus of installation,
maintenance, and repair responsibility provided by the Water Utility.
   CUSTOMER. Any person as defined in this chapter that consumes or is provided
water provided by and/or distributed by the Hagerstown Water Utility.
   DAY. The 24-hour period beginning at 12:01 a.m.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for specific use of land owned by others.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   FEDERAL. The government of the United States of America and regulatory
agencies thereof.
   HAGERSTOWN WATER UTILITY. The authority controlling, regulating, and
maintaining the water supply system.
   HISTORY OF BEING PAST DUE.
      (1)   Having been past due on more than one occurrence during the
preceding 12-month period;
      (2)   Having any service disconnected as a result of nonpayment during
the preceding 24-month period; or
      (3)   Being past due on the date service is terminated. (This includes
those customers who requested service be terminated at one location (account)
and connected at a new location (account) as a result of moving to the new
location).
   INTERFERENCE. Intentional inhibition or disruption.
   MANAGER. The Town Manager, the Director of Municipal Operations, and
authorized designees.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissible.
   MCL. The Maximum Contaminant Level allowed of various substances in water
provided for human consumption.
   MCLGs. The Maximum Contaminant Level Goal in regard to water quality.
   NON-OWNER, NON-OWNER CUSTOMER.  A customer who is not the owner of the
premises to which water service is being provided, connected, or disconnected,
or otherwise affected by this chapter. This includes, but is not limited to,
tenants, lessees, and other occupants who are customers but do not own the
property to which services are provided.
   NON-OWNER OCCUPIED. A premises is considered to be NON-OWNER OCCUPIED when a
person other than the owner occupies or resides at the premises. This includes,
but is not limited to, premises or properties occupied by tenants, lessees, and
other occupants who are not owners.
   OTHER AUTHORITY. Other bona fide regulatory agencies.
   OWNER.  The person that owns the premises to which water service is being
provided, connected, or disconnected, or otherwise affected by this chapter.
   OWNER OCCUPIED. A premises is considered to be OWNER OCCUPIED when the owner
of the premises occupies or resides at the premises.
   PERMIT. The agreement between the Town Water Utility and the owner,
customer, or tenant in regard to the provision and consumption of water
service.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, company, association, partnership, society,
corporation, or group.
   PREMISES. All customer owned or operated buildings, premises, facilities, or
other divisions which receive water services.
   PRIVATE. When used as a prefix, shall mean that portion of the water system
for which the customer bears installation, maintenance, and repair
responsibility.
   PUBLIC. When used as a prefix, shall mean that portion of the water system
for which the Water Utility exercises control and bears maintenance and repair
responsibility.
   PUBLIC SERVICE PIPES. A service pipe in which all owners of abutting
properties have access, but is controlled by the Water Utility.
   SERVICE OWNER. A customer who has received a permit for service and has been
assigned a service account number.
   SERVICE PIPE. A pipe or conduit used to carry water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STANDARD METHODS. The most recent edition of Standard Methods for
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, Water Pollution Control Federation, and American Water Works
Association.
   STATE. The State of Indiana and regulatory agencies thereof.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  When used in this chapter, shall have the same meaning as
MANAGER, as defined in this section.
   TAP ON. The installation of a curb stop for the customer to access the
public service pipe by extending the building main to the curb stop.
   TAP ON FEE. The fee assessed the customer for the installation of a curb
stop and connection to the public main.
   TOWN. The municipal corporation known as Hagerstown, Indiana.
   WATER. The elemental compound H2O which has been properly treated with
decontaminates and other health safeguards, in amounts as to be rendered safe
for human consumption.
   WATER MAIN. All portions of the public service pipe to include: pipe,
valves, booster station, storage tanks, and other components required to carry
water from the wells through the public distribution system.
   WATER SERVICE PIPES. A service pipe which contains and carries only water
that has been treated by the Water Utility, and to which no other foreign water
shall be intentionally admitted.
   WATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any and all devices, structures, and processes used
to decontaminate water prior to the introduction of the water into the public
distribution system.
   WATER UTILITY MANAGER or UTILITY MANAGER. Shall have the same meaning as
MANAGER, as defined in this section.
   WATERWORKS. Any or all facilities and processes used to originate, pump,
treat, purify, store, and transport water provided for human consumption.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991; Am. Ord. 1-2005, passed 2-7-2005; Am. Ord. 1-
2008, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 52.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the maximum possible
beneficial public use of the Water Utility system, through regulation of
construction, use, and equitable distribution of costs; and the provision of
procedures for complying with the requirements contained herein.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 52.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all water customers served by
the Water Utility. This chapter provides for the use of the town water
facilities through regulation of construction, customer use, and equitable
distribution of costs; and procedures for compliance with the requirements
found herein.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 52.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Manager of the Town Water Utility
shall administer, implement, and cause enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 52.05 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found in violation of this chapter, or any requirements of a
permit issued hereunder, may be served with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for compliance. Any
notice shall be given in writing and served in person or by registered or
certified mail. The notice shall be sent to the last address of the violator
known to the Manager. When the address is unknown, service may be made on the
owner of record as shown by the county tax records of the property involved. If
satisfactory action is not forthcoming in the time allotted in the notice, §
52.99 shall be invoked.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991) Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.06 COLLECTION OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid to the Town Water Utility. The fees and charges as set forth
herein or as established in the latest applicable rate schedule of the Town
Water Rate Ordinance shall constitute fees payable.
   (B)   All fees, penalties, and charges collected under this chapter shall be
used for the sole purpose of constructing, operating, or maintaining the Town
Water Utility facilities, or the retirement of debt incurred for same pursuant
to state or federal law.
   (C)   (1)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this
chapter are due no later than 15 days from the date of billing as set forth in
any utility billing of the town ("due date" or "Due Date"). In the event that
any service charges are not paid on or before the due date, the unpaid charges
are delinquent and shall be subject to a late fee or penalty of 10% of the
delinquent amount. In addition to incurring a late fee or penalty charge, in
the event that any fee and/or charge is not paid in full within ten days of the
due date, and the customer not having before the expiration of said ten days
requested a hearing in writing submitted to the Town Clerk-Treasurer before the
utility board concerning accrued charges, fees, and penalties, it shall result
in the services to the customer being disconnected. Fees and deposits
associated with any reconnection of services shall be as set forth in this
chapter, and the deposit may increase as a result of a disconnection, pursuant
to the deposit requirement schedule. The bill sent to the customer will
indicate that if the bill remains delinquent for a period of ten days after the
due date thereof, and the customer not having requested the hearing referenced
herein, it shall result in the services to the customer being disconnected, and
there shall be no further notice provided prior to discontinuance of service.
      (2)   In addition to any fees and charges, including late fees, in the
event that the town takes any action to recover delinquent or unpaid fees and
charges, the customer shall be responsible for any and all costs of collection
incurred by the town, including, but not limited to, attorney fees and/or any
fees paid to a collection agency.
   (D)   (1)   A budget billing plan will be made available to any residential
customer in a single family residence upon approval by the Water Utility. A
residential customer must be a customer of the Hagerstown Water Utility for a
period of at least 12 months in the same residence immediately preceding the
time for which budget billing is being requested before making an application
for budget billing approval for that residence,
      (2)   The Hagerstown Water Utility will bill the customer each month one-
twelfth of the estimated cost of service for a 12 month period under the
schedule set forth in §
52.08 herein, with said 12 month period commencing with the bill associated
with the first full month billing term after the request for the monthly
billing plan is approved by the water utility, and will continue thereafter
month-by-month for ten subsequent months. During this period of 11 months, the
cost of each month’s service calculated under the rate will be charged to the
customer’s water account, and all payments made by the customer will be
credited to his or her water account. The bill rendered for the twelfth month
will be properly adjusted for the difference between the actual billing during
the first eleven months and the payments made by the customer for service
during the period. If at any time during the first eleven months the customer’s
consumption, including variable costs of furnishing service, of water increases
to such an extent that it is apparent that the estimate for the year’s service
and the resultant monthly payments differ by more than 20% from the amount of
the budget billing payments, the Hagerstown Water Utility retains the right to
revise the estimate and increase the monthly billing accordingly.
      (3)   The budget billing amount must be paid on or before the due date
each month to allow the budget billing plan customer to continue to qualify for
budget billing privileges. If the budget billing amount is not paid on or
before the due date in two successive or non-successive months within a budget
period, the budget billing privilege for the owner-occupant budget billing plan
customer will be discontinued and the owner-occupant will not be qualified to
apply for budget billing payments for at least 12 months following the end of
the current budget billing plan period.
      (4)   Upon being disconnected, the full balance due for water service
will become immediately due and payable and reconnection fees will be added. If
disconnect of water service occurs in any month because of non-payment before
the published disconnect date, the budget billing privilege for the owner-
occupant budget billing plan customer will be immediately terminated. Following
the disconnect, the owner-occupant will not be qualified to apply for budget
billing privileges for at least 24 months following the end of the current
budget billing plan period.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991; Am. Ord. 1-2008, passed 1-22-2008; Am. Ord. 7-
2013, passed 10-21-2013; Am. Ord. 14-2017, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Manager, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter properties at any reasonable time for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, meter reading, or sampling of the water
provided, to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Manager, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private property at reasonable times, through which the
town holds an easement for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any of the town’s water facilities within
the easement. All entry and any subsequent work on the easement shall be done
in full accordance with the terms of the easement pertaining to the private
property involved.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private property referred to in
divisions (A) and (B) above, the Manager shall observe all safety rules
established by the owner or occupant of the property and applicable to the
premises when communicated by the owner or occupant, but the town assumes no
liability to any party for violations thereof.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.08 RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Rates effective June 6, 2022.
      (1)   Consumption per month.
 
Consumption per Month                   Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 3,000 gallons                     $7.51
Next 12,000 gallons                     $5.45
Next 20,000 gallons                     $3.83
Next 25,000 gallons                     $2.90
All gallons in excess of 60,000 gallons $2.40
 
      (2)   Minimum charges per month.
         (a)   Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance with the
following applicable size of meter installed as set forth below, for which
minimum charge the user shall be entitled to 3,000 gallons of water. All
gallons used in excess of 3,000 gallons shall be charged the rates set forth
above in division (1) above, starting with the next 12,000 gallons.
Meter Size Per Month
Meter Size             Per Month
3/4 inch meter or less $22.55
1 inch meter or less   $56.41
2 inch meter or less   $180.54
3 inch meter or less   $338.48
4 inch meter or less   $564.13
5 inch meter or less   $676.97
6 inch meter or less   $1,128.28
 
         (b)   Given the minimum charges per size of meter installed as set
forth above, and given that the minimum charge includes the first 3,000 gallons
of water, the rate for the first 3,000 gallons of water would, in effect, vary
based on meter size. The first 3,000 gallons of water would have the following
rate per 1,000 gallons based on meter size and a required charge of 3,000
gallons minimum:
Meter Size Per Month
Meter Size             Per Month
3/4 inch meter or less $7.51 per 1,000 gallons
1 inch meter           $18.80 per 1,000 gallons
2 inch meter           $60.18 per 1,000 gallons
3 inch meter           $112.83 per 1,000 gallons
4 inch meter           $188.04 per 1,000 gallons
5 inch meter           $225.66 per 1,000 gallons
6 inch meter           $376.09 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   Public fire protection charges.
Meter Size Amount Per Month
Meter Size       Amount Per Month
3/4 inch meter   $3.41
1 inch meter     $5.68
1 1/2 inch meter $11.35
2 inch meter     $18.16
3 inch meter     $34.05
4 inch meter     $56.75
6 inch meter     $113.50
 
      (4)   Private fire protection.
         (a)   Private hydrant rental (per annum) - $1,017.19; and
         (b)   Sprinkler connections:
 
Size                        Amount Per Month
1-inch sprinkler            $8.72
2-inch sprinkler            $34.49
3-inch sprinklers or larger $137.68
 
   (B)   Rates effective January 1, 2023.
      (1)   Consumption per month.
 
Consumption per Month                   Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 3,000 gallons                     $7.62
Next 12,000 gallons                     $5.53
Next 20,000 gallons                     $3.88
Next 25,000 gallons                     $2.94
All gallons in excess of 60,000 gallons $2.44
 
      (2)   Minimum charges per month.
         (a)   Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance with the
following applicable size of meter installed as set forth below, for which
minimum charge the user shall be entitled to 3,000 gallons of water. All
gallons used in excess of 3,000 gallons shall be charged the rates set forth
above in division (1) above, starting with the next 12,000 gallons.
Meter Size Per Month
Meter Size             Per Month
3/4 inch meter or less $22.87
1 inch meter or less   $57.26
2 inch meter or less   $183.25
3 inch meter or less   $343.56
4 inch meter or less   $572.59
5 inch meter or less   $687.12
6 inch meter or less   $1,145.20
 
         (b)   Given the minimum charges per size of meter installed as set
forth above, and given that the minimum charge includes the first 3,000 gallons
of water, the rate for the first 3,000 gallons of water would, in effect, vary
based on meter size. The first 3,000 gallons of water would have the following
rate per 1,000 gallons based on meter size and a required charge of 3,000
gallons minimum:
Meter Size Per Month
Meter Size             Per Month
3/4 inch meter or less $7.62 per 1,000 gallons
1 inch meter           $19.09 per 1,000 gallons
2 inch meter           $61.08 per 1,000 gallons
3 inch meter           $114.52 per 1,000 gallons
4 inch meter           $190.86 per 1,000 gallons
5 inch meter           $229.04 per 1,000 gallons
6 inch meter           $381.73 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   Public fire protection charges.
Meter Size Amount Per Month
Meter Size       Amount Per Month
3/4 inch meter   $3.46
1 inch meter     $5.77
1 1/2 inch meter $11.52
2 inch meter     $18.43
3 inch meter     $34.56
4 inch meter     $57.60
6 inch meter     $115.20
 
      (4)   Private fire protection.
         (a)   Private hydrant rental (per annum) - $1,032.44; and
         (b)   Sprinkler connections:
 
Size                        Amount Per Month
1-inch sprinkler            $8.84
2-inch sprinkler            $35
3-inch sprinklers or larger $139.74
 
   (C)   Rates effective January 1, 2024.
      (1)   Consumption per month.
 
Consumption per Month                   Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 3,000 gallons                     $7.75
Next 12,000 gallons                     $5.63
Next 20,000 gallons                     $3.95
Next 25,000 gallons                     $2.99
All gallons in excess of 60,000 gallons $2.47
 
      (2)   Minimum charges per month.
         (a)   Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance with the
following applicable size of meter installed as set forth below, for which
minimum charge the user shall be entitled to 3,000 gallons of water. All
gallons used in excess of 3,000 gallons shall be charged the rates set forth
above in division (1) above, starting with the next 12,000 gallons.
Meter Size Per Month
Meter Size             Per Month
3/4 inch meter or less $23.25
1 inch meter or less   $58.23
2 inch meter or less   $186.36
3 inch meter or less   $349.40
4 inch meter or less   $582.32
5 inch meter or less   $698.81
6 inch meter or less   $1,164.66
 
         (b)   Given the minimum charges per size of meter installed as set
forth above, and given that the minimum charge includes the first 3,000 gallons
of water, the rate for the first 3,000 gallons of water would, in effect, vary
based on meter size. The first 3,000 gallons of water would have the following
rate per 1,000 gallons based on meter size and a required charge of 3,000
gallons minimum:
Meter Size Per Month
Meter Size             Per Month
3/4 inch meter or less $7.75 per 1,000 gallons
1 inch meter           $19.41 per 1,000 gallons
2 inch meter           $62.12 per 1,000 gallons
3 inch meter           $116.47 per 1,000 gallons
4 inch meter           $194.10 per 1,000 gallons
5 inch meter           $232.93 per 1,000 gallons
6 inch meter           $388.22 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   Public fire protection charges.
Meter Size Amount Per Month
Meter Size       Amount Per Month
3/4 inch meter   $3.52
1 inch meter     $5.87
1 1/2 inch meter $11.72
2 inch meter     $18.74
3 inch meter     $35.15
4 inch meter     $58.58
6 inch meter     $117.16
 
      (4)   Private fire protection.
         (a)   Private hydrant rental (per annum) - $1,049.99; and
         (b)   Sprinkler connections:
 
Size                        Amount per Month
1-inch sprinkler            $8.99
2-inch sprinkler            $35.59
3-inch sprinklers or larger $142.11
 
   (D)   Rates effective July 1, 2024.
      (1)   Consumption per month.
 
Consumption per Month                   Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 3,000 gallons                     $8.53
Next 12,000 gallons                     $6.19
Next 20,000 gallons                     $4.35
Next 25,000 gallons                     $3.29
All gallons in excess of 60,000 gallons $2.72
 
      (2)   Minimum charges per month.
         (a)   Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance with the
following applicable size of meter installed as set forth below, for which
minimum charge the user shall be entitled to 3,000 gallons of water. All
gallons used in excess of 3,000 gallons shall be charged the rates set forth
above in division (D)(1) above, starting with the next 12,000 gallons.
Meter Size Per Month
Meter Size             Per Month
3/4-inch meter or less $25.58
1-inch meter           $64.05
2-inch meter           $205.00
3-inch meter           $384.34
4-inch meter           $640.55
5-inch meter           $768.69
6-inch meter           $1,281.13
 
         (b)   Given the minimum charges per size of meter installed as set
forth above, and given that the minimum charge includes the first 3,000 gallons
of water, the rate for the first 3,000 gallons of water would, in effect, vary
based on meter size. The first 3,000 gallons of water would have the following
rate per 1,000 gallons based on meter size and a required charge of 3,000
gallons minimum:
Meter Size Per Month
Meter Size             Per Month
3/4-inch meter or less $8.53 per 1,000 gallons
1-inch meter           $21.35 per 1,000 gallons
2-inch meter           $68.33 per 1,000 gallons
3-inch meter           $128.12 per 1,000 gallons
4-inch meter           $213.51 per 1,000 gallons
5-inch meter           $256.22 per 1,000 gallons
6-inch meter           $427.04 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   Public fire protection charges.
Meter Size Amount per Month
Meter Size       Amount per Month
3/4-inch meter   $3.87
1-inch meter     $6.46
1 1/2-inch meter $12.89
2-inch meter     $20.61
3-inch meter     $38.67
4-inch meter     $64.44
6-inch meter     $128.88
 
      (4)   Private fire protection.
         (a)   Private hydrant rental (per annum) - $1,049.99; and
         (b)   Sprinkler connections:
 
Size                        Amount per Month
1-inch sprinkler            $9.89
2-inch sprinkler            $39.15
3-inch sprinklers or larger $156.32
 
   (E)   Tapping fees. Each applicant, person requesting to connect with the
waterworks system, and/or user shall pay with the application to request
services, a charge to cover the costs of tapping the main, furnishing and
laying public service pipe, corporation and curb stops, service and meter box
and installing the meter. The charge for a 3/4-inch or less meter shall be
$650. The charge for a tap larger than 3/4-inch meter tap shall be $850 or the
cost of labor and materials required to install the same as computed by the
Town Manager, whichever is greater.
   (F)   Temporary users. Water furnished to temporary users, such as
contractors, and the like shall be charged on the basis of the metered rates as
set forth herein or as established in the latest applicable schedule of water
rates ordinance adopted by the town, as metered or verified by the Manager.
   (G)   Multiple billing units. In the case of apartment houses, multiple
dwelling units, mobile home courts, or business houses occupied by more than
one business, each apartment, dwelling unit, mobile home, and business division
shall be considered a separate unit for billing purposes. Where the physical
structure is such that it would be economically prohibitive to meter each unit
separately, and more than one unit is metered by a single meter, then the
amount of the water bill shall be computed as follows.
      (1)   The minimum charge will be the current minimum rate as established
in the latest applicable rate schedule of the Town Water Rate Ordinance
multiplied by the number of units not having been granted an official
interruption of service by the water utility.
      (2)   The charge shall be calculated on the basis of the total gallons
used at the current rate set forth in the latest applicable rate schedule of
the Town Water Rate Ordinance, but in no case shall the charge be less than the
minimum as defined in division (G)(1) above.
      (3)   In all cases of multiple billing units with one master meter, the
water charges shall be billed to the owner(s) of the property service and the
owner(s) shall be responsible for the payment thereof.
   (H)   Collection charges.
      (1)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter
are due no later than 15 days from the date of billing as set forth in any
utility billing of the town (“due date” or “Due Date”). In the event that any
service charges are not paid on or before the due date, the unpaid charges are
delinquent and shall be subject to a late fee or penalty of 10% of the
delinquent amount. In addition to incurring a late fee or penalty charge, in
the event that any fee and/or charge is not paid in full within ten days of the
due date, and the customer not having before the expiration of said ten days
requested a hearing in writing submitted to the Town Clerk-Treasurer before the
utility board concerning accrued charges, fees, and penalties, it shall result
in the services to the customer being disconnected. Fees and deposits
associated with any reconnection of services shall be as set forth in this
chapter, and the deposit may increase as a result of a disconnection, pursuant
to the deposit requirement schedule. The bill sent to the customer will
indicate that if the bill remains delinquent for a period of ten days after the
due date thereof, and the customer not having requested the hearing referenced
herein, it shall result in the services to the customer being disconnected, and
there shall be no further notice provided prior to discontinuance of service.
      (2)   In addition to any fees and charges, including late fees, in the
event that the town takes any action to recover delinquent or unpaid fees and
charges, the customer shall be responsible for any and all costs of collection
incurred by the town, including, but not limited to, attorney’s fees and/or any
fees paid to a collection agency.
(Ord. 3-1977, passed 11-21-1977; Am. Ord. 6-1981, passed 5-4-1981; Am. Ord. 12-
1985, passed 11-18-1985; Am. Ord. 1-1995, passed 2-6-1995; Am. Ord. 1-1996,
passed 12-18-1995; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 7-1-2002; Am. Ord. 1-2004, passed 3-
1-2004; Am. Ord. 1-2005, passed 2-7-2005; Am. Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-2-2005; Am.
Ord. 1-2008, passed 1-22-2008; Am. Ord. 6-2010, passed 6-7-2010; Am. Ord. 7-
2013, passed 10-21-2013; Am. Ord. 7-2018, passed 9-4-2018; Am. Ord. 17-2021,
passed 12-6-2021; Am. Ord. 2-2022, passed 6-6-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 6-
3-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Management and control of utilities, see I.C. 36-9-2-14 and 36-9-2-15
§ 52.09 VANDALISM.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment that is part of the town’s waterworks. Any person who violates this
section shall be subject to a penalty for each violation not to exceed $2,500.
Civil action deemed necessary by the town to recover loss and damages incurred
will not be abrogated by the imposition of any penalties for the violation or
by criminal proceedings and dispositions under state or federal law, or limited
by penalties contained herein.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.10 RULES TO GOVERN WATER USERS.
   The rules, regulations, water rate schedules, fees, and charges shall be
considered a part of the contract with every person who is supplied with water
by the Water Utility, and every person using water supplied by the Utility
shall be considered to have expressed consent to be bound by the rules and
regulations and to have agreed to the payment of the water rates, fees, and
charges.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.11 SEVERABILITY.
   A finding by any court or other jurisdiction that any part or provision of
this chapter is invalid shall not affect the validity of any other part or
provision of this chapter that can be implemented without the invalid parts or
provisions.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 52.12 CASH RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   A cash reserve fund is created for the Water Utility and carried on
the records of the Utility, to which fund contributions or transfers of surplus
earnings of the Utility may be made by resolution. Any authorized transfer of
surplus earnings shall be made no later than the tenth working day of the month
following authorization.
   (B)   Surplus earnings are defined as those cash earnings remaining after
provisions have been made to take care of current obligations, including those
for operating expenses, depreciation or replacement funds, sinking fund, bond
and interest retirement funds, or any other priority fund requirements fixed by
ordinance or by law.
   (C)   No transfer to the cash reserve fund shall be made unless or until a
depreciation or replacement fund has been established for the Utility to which
shall accrue at least 21.5% of the operating revenues each month.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 52.13 TRANSFER OF CASH RESERVE FUND BALANCE TO GENERAL FUND.
   In each calendar year, the Town Council may transfer by resolution to the
municipal general fund an amount to compensate the town for taxes that would be
due the town on the Water Utility property if it were privately owned. Each
transfer shall be billed on the value of the Utility’s assets as would be
subject to taxes on December 31 of the previous year. However, the transfer
shall not exceed the actual balance of the cash reserve fund as of July 31 of
the current year.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 52.14 APPLICATIONS AND REQUEST FOR SERVICE; DEPOSITS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   One person may, at the town’s discretion, be named on the contract or
permit application as the service owner. Applications for water service shall
be in writing and be delivered in person at the business office of the town on
a form provided by the town entitled “Application for Utility Service.”
      (1)   Any requirements of a cash deposit, connection or reconnection fee,
or other fees, and/or credit worthy criteria, as provided in this chapter,
shall be paid and/or submitted before any utility service will be rendered,
including:
         (a)   Request for a permit to connect to the Water Utility;
         (b)   Request for tap on (curb stop) installation;
         (c)   Disconnections or reconnections for nonpayment, improper
tampering or use, or vacation status;
         (d)   Owner or non-owner initiated discontinuance of service. A
written request is required and must be completed using a form provided by the
town, entitled “Request for Discontinuance of Service.” The form shall contain
a release to be signed by any non-owner customer (if applicable) and the owner
of the property. The customer is required to be present for any final readouts.
All fees and charges not paid shall be due and payable on or before the due
date reflected on the final bill; and
         (e)   Landlord Transfer Agreement.
      (2)   In order for utility service to be rendered to an applicant, owner,
or non-owner, all prior accounts and amounts due or written off as bad debt
regarding the applicant or in the applicant’s name must be paid, and any
collection costs or legal fees paid to outside agencies or parties as a result
of the applicant’s failure to pay must be reimbursed before a new account will
be established for that applicant.
      (3)   Any request for service shall be made to the Water Utility no less
than 72 hours in advance of the time service is desired, excluding non-business
days. If the requested service involves construction, equipment installation,
or special considerations, the request shall be made to the Water Utility no
less than 45 days in advance of the time service is desired.
   (B)   Any customer requesting utility service at a different location than
where that customer currently has, or previously had, service, shall be
required to complete an application for utility service for that specific
location on the form provided by the town, and to pay the deposit and following
the procedures regarding the payment of deposit, as set forth in division (G)
below, at the time that the customer submits the application in person at the
business office of the town.
   (C)   When submitting the application for utility service, the applicant
will be asked for proof of identification (driver’s license or state issued ID
preferred). This is necessary to aid in the collection process, if necessary,
and to eliminate possible falsification of customer information. The
appropriate town personnel at the town’s business office will make a copy of
the proof document and attach it to the application.
   (D)   If the applicant is not the owner of the property to which service is
being requested (non-owner customer), the property owner or a properly
authorized agent of the property owner shall sign the owner’s certificate
section of the application. The signature of the owner must be notarized or
signed in the presence of a representative of the town, who shall witness the
application at the business office as provided therein. The signature of the
application by an applicant is an acknowledgment that the applicant understands
and agrees to the responsibilities, requirements, including, but not limited
to, the payment and deposit requirements, set forth in
Chapter 52 of the Town Code, and the applicant’s agreement to comply with the
Town Code relevant to utility services.
   (E)   After reviewing the application for completeness, the town will
determine the deposit required, if any, and review computer and/or other
records to verify that the applicant has no previous history of being past due
and for any previous account balances that may still be owed to the town. Upon
payment of any required cash deposit, a receipt will be issued by the town to
the applicant.
   (F)   Copies of the application for utility service form will be available
at the business office of the town for use by potential applicants, property
owners, non-owner customers, and those who are new construction homeowners.
   (G)   The following Deposit Requirement Schedule shall be applicable for all
applicants for water utility service of the town:
 
Deposit Requirement Schedule
Customer Type                          Amount
Residential (Owner Occupied)           $50
Residential (Nonowner Occupied)        $50
Apartment houses, multiple dwelling    Amount equal to the estimate cost of
units, mobile home courts, or business water to be used for a three-month
houses occupied by more than one       period as determined by the Manager, or
business where each unit is not        an amount equal to $50 times the total
separately metered                     number of units
                                       15% of the active 12 months charges at
                                       the service address (including taxes),
                                       rounded to the nearest $100. If the
                                       service is at a new address, the 12
Commercial, industrial, institutional, months charges will be estimated, based
government                             upon the type and size of the customer
                                       as compared to similar types and sizes
                                       of customers. Deposits are subject to
                                       periodic review, after which, the
                                       deposit may be adjusted to more
                                       accurately reflect the 15% requirement.
 
      (1)   When a previously terminated account customer (nonowner or owner
occupied) returns to establish a new account after a period of time has
elapsed, and the prior account for utility service previously established a
history of being past due with the Hagerstown Water Utility, the town may
double the regular deposit amount as provided above, and any amounts due or
written off as bad debts must be paid and any collection or legal fees paid to
outside agencies must be reimbursed before a new account will be established.
      (2)   If an active account (nonowner or owner occupied) continually
becomes or remains past due (determined by the application of three or more
penalty charges against the account for late payment), or service has been
disconnected due to nonpayment, a deposit equal to double the schedule
established above may be required for continuation of or re-establishment of
service.
      (3)   The owner occupied residential deposit is required as set forth in
the schedule above before utility service will be rendered.
         (a)   The deposit may be waived, however, and the owner deemed
creditworthy, if the owner applicant provides written confirmation from the
owner’s preceding utility company or companies (with Hagerstown Water Utility
also qualifying as a preceding utility company) that the owner is creditworthy,
the confirmation covering a previous two-year period and verifying that the
applicant:
            1.   Has been a customer of the previous utility(ies) within the
past two years;
            2.   Is not past due on any bill at this time for service rendered
by the previous utility(ies);
            3.   Within the past one year, did not have more than one bill
which was delinquent to any utility; and
            4.   Within the past two years, did not have a service disconnected
by any utility for nonpayment of a bill for services rendered by the utility.
         (b)   If the owner occupied applicant has not had service with any
utility company within the past two years, he or she must make a deposit as set
forth in the schedule above. After two years, the deposit may be refunded
subject to the conditions set forth below in the division addressing refunds.
      (4)   The nonowner occupied residential deposit is required as set forth
in the schedule above before utility service will be rendered. When a nonowner
residential customer who is a current nonowner residential customer of the
Hagerstown Water Utility moves to a new account (different location/address), a
new Application for Utility Service shall be required. The previous deposit
will normally be transferred to the new account, however, if the customer has
developed a history of being past due, the old deposit shall stay with the old
account and a new deposit shall be required for the new account. In this event,
the deposit required on the new account may be double the regular deposit
requirement. The old deposit will be applied to the current and final bills of
the old account, and the balance, if any, will be refunded. If the old account
is past due on the moving date, a new account will not be established until the
old account is brought current. If the nonowner applicant fails to pay the old
account in full the service will not be re-established until the property owner
has paid the balance of the old account.
         (a)   If, after the final bill is prepared, the old deposit is not
sufficient to cover the remaining charges of the old account and the old
account becomes past due, the new account will be subject to service
termination or disconnect as though the two accounts were one.
         (b)   When planning a move, the business office of the town should be
given sufficient notice, the notice to be a minimum of three business days, so
that services can be terminated on the planned date of vacating the premises.
      (5)   Commercial, industrial, and institutional accounts shall be
required to pay a deposit before utility service will be rendered, the amount
of which shall be determined by the above schedule. If an account continually
becomes or remains past due (determined by the application of three or more
penalty charges against the account for late payment), or service has been
disconnected due to nonpayment, a deposit equal to double the amount determined
by the above schedule will be required for continuation of or re-establishment
of service. If an account is disconnected because of nonpayment, the deposit
will be used to defray any or all of the existing balance. Upon re-establishing
the required deposit balance (a surety bond may be required in order to cover
the increased amount), the payment of reconnect charges and payment of any
charges not covered by the deposit and/or surety bond, services will be
restored. If a commercial, industrial, institutional, or government deposit is
more than $200, the customer/applicant shall be allowed one of two options as
follows.
         (a)   To make weekly installment payments until the total deposit
requirement is paid in full. The first payment shall be at least $200 and
installment payments shall not continue beyond eight weeks. Service shall be
connected upon receipt of the first such payment, but may be terminated at
anytime, without notice, upon failure by the applicant or customer to make the
agreed upon installment payments and/or utility bill payments when due; or
         (b)   To provide an assigned surety bond from an approved underwriting
company for the deposit requirement. Service shall be connected upon receipt of
the surety bond.
   (H)   (1)   Cash deposits will be applied to the customer’s final bill after
which the balance, if any, will be refunded. Interest will not be paid on any
part of the deposit. Any balance due from the customer after application of the
deposit shall be due and payable on or before the date specified on the final
bill.
      (2)   Residential owner-occupied cash deposits may be refunded after two
years, if requested in writing, and, if the following conditions are met:
within the 12 month period preceding the date of the request, the owner/
occupant did not have more than one bill which became delinquent, and within
the 24 months preceding the date of the request, the owner/occupant did not
have service disconnected for non-payment. Non-residential surety bonds will be
canceled and returned to the principal within a reasonable time after all final
charges are paid.
      (3)   If the application of this chapter creates a refunded amount to be
given to the customer, the Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to refund to a
customer, without further act of Town Council, an amount not exceeding the
amount of the full deposit of the customer.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991; Am. Ord. 1-2005, passed 2-7-2005; Am. Ord. 1-
2008, passed 1-22-2008; Am. Ord. 3-2009, passed 3-17-2009; Am. Ord. 10-2015,
passed 11-16-2015) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.15 RECONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Nonpayment reconnections. A service charge of $75 shall be collected
for reinstating any service after a work order has been issued to disconnect
the meter for nonpayment of charges. Additionally, any past due or delinquent
fees and/or charges must be paid in full prior to reconnection.
   (B)   Vacations. Service may be temporarily disconnected on a temporary
vacation status not to exceed six months. The charge shall be $25 for each
disconnect and reconnect of the water service if accomplished within the
normally scheduled working hours of the Water Utility employees. There shall be
an additional $15 fee assessed for each disconnect and reconnect if requested
by service owner to be accomplished outside of the normally scheduled working
hours of the Water Utility employees. The disconnection service shall only
apply to the occupants of the premises in question wherein a temporary vacancy
exists for the above stated purpose and the occupants in question will return
to occupy the premises. Any request is to be made at least two working days
prior to owner’s departure to allow for scheduling by Water Utility personnel.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991; Am. Ord. 1-2004, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 1-
2005, passed 2-7-2005; Am. Ord. 6-2021, passed 5-3-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 INTENT OF THE WATER UTILITY.
   (A)   The Water Utility shall attempt to provide water for human consumption
in accordance with the Safe Drinking Water Act and amendments thereof which may
occur from time to time. The Act formulated by the EPA and enforced and
monitored by state regulatory agents shall be the standard of water quality in
regard to MCLs and MCLGs found therein.
   (B)   The Water Utility shall maintain an ongoing sampling, testing, and
analysis program to ensure compliance of water quality standards.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
§ 52.17 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Any and all services shall be metered and the size of the meter to be
used shall be determined by the Town Water Utility Manager.
   (B)   Meters to be furnished by the Water Utility are the property of the
town and shall not be tampered with under penalty of law.
   (C)   The placement of the meter shall be the option of the Water Department
authority.
   (D)   Any changes in the service pipes or fixtures that may be necessary to
set the meter properly to avoid freezing and to make all water used on the
premises pass through the meter shall be at the expense of the property owner
or consumer as applicable.
   (E)   Where meters are set within the interior of any premises, the customer
shall keep the meter clean and maintain ease of access to the meter.
   (F)   In the eventuality any meter shall become out of order and
malfunctions by failing to register the amount of water passing through it, the
customer shall be charged at the rate of average consumption registered by the
meter for the prior 12-month period before it became out of order.
   (G)   The Water Utility shall make a test on the accuracy of registration of
a 3/4-inch or less water meter, upon written request of a customer to do so,
and upon the customer depositing a $20 fee with the Water Utility. If the meter
is found to be within the allowable limit of error, which shall be plus or
minus 4%, the fee shall be retained by the Water Utility. If the meter is found
to be registering outside the allowable error limits, the fee shall be refunded
to the depositor.
   (H)   Customers requesting the testing of water meters one inch or greater
outside the time frames established for testing by the Water Utility shall be
assessed the actual cost of the test.
   (I)   The Water Utility may schedule tests for accuracy if deemed necessary
by the Water Utility Manager and Town Council within the following time frames:
      (1)   Three-quarter inch or less, every seven years; and
      (2)   One inch or more, every five years.
   (J)   As the Water Utility exercises no control of premises, interior
plumbing construction, or fixtures, the customer shall sign an agreement
holding the town and the Water Utility harmless from any and all damages when
the meter is installed or removed and when water is turned off or turned on.
   (K)   No person shall be permitted to install any water line or main and
connect it to the water lines or mains of the town without prior approval from
the Manager. Approval will not be granted without a signed statement on file at
the Water Utility’s office that the installation will be constructed in
accordance with ASTM standards for water line construction and applicable
requirements of local building and plumbing codes and agreeing to inspection by
appropriate town and Utility personnel.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.18 SERVICE PIPES.
   (A)   Each and every single-family residence or single commercial concern
under one roof shall be served by a separate metered private service pipe.
   (B)   In the case of multi-family dwellings under one common roof, mobile
home courts, and business houses with two or more businesses under one common
roof and owned by one person, the concerns may be served by a master metered
private service pipe upon written approval by the Water Utility Manager.
However, if more than one person of record controls the property such as may be
the case with condominiums, duplexes, or other divisions of ownership under one
common roof, then each separate division shall be metered separately on
individual private service pipes. Where only one curb stop is used, the owner
of the service shall pay the water rate for all concerns supplied. Failure to
pay the water rates when due, or to comply with the rules and regulations of
the waterworks system shall be cause to initiate disconnect actions and there
shall be no liability on the part of the Water Utility to any persons or
affected concerns.
   (C)   All private service pipes shall connect to a curb stop.
   (D)   No person shall turn water on or off at the curb stop unless given
permission to do so by the Water Utility Manager.
   (E)   No private service pipes shall be allowed to be laid across lots
belonging to another property owner, to serve the service owner, but each
property shall be served by a private service pipe directly from the public
service pipe curb stop to the premises.
   (F)   Any changes at the service owner’s request necessary to be made in the
location of a curb stop shall be made at the expense of the service owner. If
the town requires, the work notice shall be given to the service owner, and if
the work is not completed within a reasonable length of time, the town shall do
the work and the expense shall be charged to the service owner, and if not paid
on or before the subsequent billing date, the water service shall be terminated
until the account is paid current. If the town requires the work for a public
benefit, the Town Council may waive the charges to the service owner.
   (G)   All private service pipes shall be constructed to accepted standards
and practices in compliance with ASTM standards, and in no case shall a cross
connection be made to other water sources that would circumvent the treatment
process of the Water Utility.
   (H)   In all cases where Utility water service is directly connected to any
device wherein a backflow pressure could occur, an approved anti-backflow
device shall be installed to prevent foreign water or substances from entering
the public water service.
   (I)   Wherein divisions of real estate or real estate development shall
occur, the plans shall be filed with the Water Utility for land developer
approval prior to permits for connection being issued.
   (J)   Any to be constructed house, building, or other improvement for real
property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes and
in which water is consumed on said property and that is adjacent to the public
waterworks system of the town shall be required, at the owner(s)’ expense, to
install a suitable service connection to the public waterworks system in
accordance with provisions of this code. If public waterworks system
connections are not made pursuant to this section, an official 30 day notice
shall be served by the Town Manager instructing the affected property owner,
via certified mail, return receipt requested, to make said connection within 30
day. As of the date of the passage of the ordinance codified herein, any and
all water connections between a house, building, or other improvement to real
property to the public waterworks system of the town shall remain intact and
available for use, subject to terms and conditions of
Chapter 52 of Title V of the Town Code, although any house, building or other
improvement to real property not currently connected to the public waterworks
system of the town shall be permitted to maintain use of any existing well or
other water source related to such property.
   (K)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public waterworks
system in compliance with a notice given under §
52.18(G), the town must undertake to have said connection made and shall assess
the cost thereof against the benefitted property. Such assessment, when levied,
shall bear interest at the rate determined by the Town Council and shall be
certified to the Auditor of the County of Wayne, Indiana, and shall be
collected and remitted to the town in the same manner as assessments for local
improvements. The rights of the town shall be in addition to any remedial or
enforcement provisions of this section.
   (L)   The digging, pounding, drilling, construction, reconstruction, or
repair of any private well, not currently active as of the date of passage of
the ordinance codified herein, within the town’s corporate limits is
prohibited.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991; Am. Ord. 2-2018, passed 4-2-2018) Penalty, see
§
52.99
§ 52.19 TERMINATION OF WATER SERVICE.
   Water supply services may be cancelled and the services disconnected by the
Town Water Utility for the following reasons:
   (A)   The wasting or improper use of water through the use of defective
fixtures, or in any manner deemed wasteful as identified by the Manager to the
extent of jeopardizing the water supply;
   (B)   For refusal or neglect to pay bills promptly, or any other charges
accruing, in the manner and at the time herein provided;
   (C)   For interference or unlawful tampering with any device of the
waterworks system used for controlling or regulating the supply of water;
   (D)   For failure to apply for a permit in case of change of ownership or
tenancy;
   (E)   For any intentional defrauding of the Water Utility in any manner;
   (F)   For failure to adhere to the provisions regulating water usage as set
forth herein; and/or
   (G)   For refusing to allow the Water Utility personnel safe ingress for the
purpose of reading a water meter and/or repairing or providing service.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.20 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Collection charges.
      (1)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter
are due no later than 15 days from the date of billing as set forth in any
utility billing of the town ("due date" or "Due Date"). In the event that any
service charges are not paid on or before the due date, the unpaid charges are
delinquent and shall be subject to a late fee or penalty of 10% of the
delinquent amount. In addition to incurring a late fee or penalty charge, in
the event that any fee and/or charge is not paid in full within ten days of the
due date, and the customer not having before the expiration of said ten days
requested a hearing in writing submitted to the Town Clerk-Treasurer before the
utility board concerning accrued charges, fees, and penalties, it shall result
in the services to the customer being disconnected. Fees and deposits
associated with any reconnection of services shall be as set forth in this
chapter, and the deposit may increase as a result of a disconnection, pursuant
to the deposit requirement schedule. The bill sent to the customer will
indicate that if the bill remains delinquent for a period of ten days after the
due date thereof, and the customer not having requested the hearing referenced
herein, it shall result in the services to the customer being disconnected, and
there shall be no further notice provided prior to discontinuance of service.
      (2)   In addition to any fees and charges, including late fees, in the
event that the town takes any action to recover delinquent or unpaid fees and
charges, the customer shall be responsible for any and all costs of collection
incurred by the town, including, but not limited to, attorney's fees and/or any
fees paid to a collection agency. In the event an appeal is not timely
requested, no appeal shall be considered.
   (B)   The manager is authorized and directed to cause this continuance of
services in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   In order for a user or customer to be reconnected, the customer must
pay any delinquent amount, including deferred payment charges, together with
all other lawful charges, plus the reconnection fee, and comply with any and
all other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991; Am. Ord. 1-2005, passed 2-7-2005; Am. Ord. 1-
2008, passed 1-22-2008; Am. Ord. 7-2013, passed 10-21-2013) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 USAGE OF WATER DURING EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an emergency pertaining to the supply availability of
water, whereby the usage or consumption of water may exceed the supply
available to the waterworks, the Town Council is hereby empowered to issue and
cause enforcement of emergency rules and regulations curtailing and limiting
usage or consumption of water supplied by the waterworks to the customer.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any emergency rule or regulation shall be
subject to a penalty in an amount not in excess of $2,500 for each and every
day the violation continues, and in the event a violation is repeated by the
same violator during the same emergency, the Water Utility may authorize
discontinuance of service.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.22 TAKING WATER FROM HYDRANTS OR FIXTURES WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   All service owners are prohibited from furnishing water or allowing it
to be taken from their hydrants or fixtures by other persons, unless the other
persons secure a permit from the Town Water Utility Manager.
   (B)   No person shall take water from any public hydrant except for fire or
other governmental usage applications, without authorization from the Manager
of the Water Utility. The water shall be metered or verified by the Manager and
rates as established in the latest applicable rate schedule of the Town Water
Rate Ordinance shall be charged.
   (C)   Any person who, without authorization from the Manager of the Water
Utility, intentionally and unlawfully diverts water from the water main, or
otherwise intentionally and unlawfully uses or causes to be used, without
authorization of the Manager, any water distributed by the waterworks, shall be
prosecuted for any criminal violations that may be applicable, and also for any
damage or loss to the town as provided by law, and shall be liable to the town
for a penalty as prescribed by and set forth in §
10.99 if
Chapter 10 (Rules of Construction; General Penalty) of Title I (General
Provisions) of the Town Code of Hagerstown, Indiana.
   (D)   The resale of water supplied by the Town Water Utility to a customer
of water service by the customer to any other person is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991; Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.23 GRANTING OF SERVICE TO USERS OUTSIDE THE TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   No person requesting service outside the town limits shall be
authorized to tap into any water line or main of the town without obtaining the
express written authorization of the Town Council as such appears in the
official record and minutes of the Town Council.
   (B)   No person shall be permitted to install any private water line or main
and connect it to the water lines or mains of the town without the express
written approval of the Water Utility Manager certifying that the lines and
mains have been or will be constructed or installed in accordance with ASTM
standards for water line construction and applicable requirements of local
building and plumbing codes, and agreeing to inspection by appropriate town and
Utility personnel.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for extended service by any person to
any area not authorized by the town for general public service, the Town
Council may enter into a written and properly executed agreement between the
person requesting the service and the Town Council.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.24 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any customer may direct any water service-related complaint, concern,
or question to the Water Utility business office.
   (B)   If the issue in question cannot be resolved at the Water Utility
business office, the customer shall be afforded the opportunity to appear
before the Town Council acting as a Water Utility Board within a reasonable
time to hear the complaint, question or concern which shall be submitted in
writing to the Town Council five days prior to the meeting date set for the
appearance. The customer shall be advised of the time and place for the
appearance in a timely manner as to accomplish the requirements.
   (C)   The Town Council acting as the Water Utility may consider the facts as
it deems necessary for the resolution of the issue at hand, and shall make
known the necessity for further investigation or its decision to the customer
within 15 days of the customer’s appearance before the Town Council. A final
decision following additional investigation by the town shall be made known to
the customer in writing within 60 days of the initial appearance before the
Town Council by the customer, unless by joint agreement between the town and
the customer it is agreed that a reasonable time extension shall be allowed due
to extenuating circumstances.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.25 LANDLORD TRANSFER AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Owners of property wherein there is a non-owner customer receiving
water service, may, but shall not be required to, complete a Landlord Transfer
Agreement form. The forms shall be made available by the town to property
owners upon request of the property owner. The Landlord Transfer Agreement is
applicable where a property owner leases, rents, or otherwise allows occupancy
or use by a non-owner customer.
   (B)   The owner of the property may enter into an agreement with the town to
provide for the continuance of water service in the event that the terms of
this chapter would otherwise result in voluntary or involuntary termination of
the service to the property. In such an event, the owner would be requesting,
as part of the Landlord Transfer Agreement, that the town continue water
service to the property instead of actually disconnecting the water service
based on nonpayment by the non-owner customer. In exchange for the town not
disconnecting the service, the owner agrees to and would be responsible for and
pay all water service charges for services rendered to the property from the
date that the town would otherwise be authorized to disconnect the service
until the date that the town contracts with a new non-owner customer, the
owner, or a new owner of the property, pursuant to the application process set
forth in §
52.14, to be responsible for the water service and charges. Any such transfer
would not occur in instances where disconnection is a result of a condition
that is dangerous to health, physical safety, or property. Any such Landlord
Transfer Agreement must be in a form adopted by the Town Council, and the owner
must agree to and be responsible for the terms set forth therein. In the event
that the Town Council adopts a revised or amended Landlord Transfer Agreement,
the owner may be required to enter into the revised or amended Landlord
Transfer Agreement in order to continue the utility services thereunder.
   (C)   A Landlord Transfer Agreement would be treated as an application for
services, and as such, would require any and all required paperwork and any
deposit or deposits required by the town as set forth in this chapter,
depending on the amount of properties listed as part of the Landlord Transfer
Agreement and based on the creditworthiness of the owner as an applicant, as
set forth in this chapter, for any other applicant for service. Failure to
provide the required paperwork and any deposits, if applicable, would result in
the town not entering any Landlord Transfer Agreement.
(Ord. 1-2008, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 4-1991, passed 12-30-1991; Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 53: SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Purpose
   
53.03   Scope
   
53.04   Administration
   
53.05   Vandalism
   
53.06   Severability
   
53.07   Amendments
   
53.08   Operating expenses of sewer system
   
53.09   Wastewater Cash Reserved Fund
Use of Wastewater Facilities
   
53.15   Waste disposal
   
53.16   Wastewater discharges
   
53.17   Wastewater disposal
   
53.18   Connection to sewer required
   
53.19   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
53.20   Control manhole
   
53.21   Sewer line construction
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
53.30   Exclusions
   
53.31   Private system required
   
53.32   Construction permit
   
53.33   Design requirements
   
53.34   Operating permit
   
53.35   Connection to town system when available
   
53.36   Sanitary operation required
   
53.37   Further requirements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.40   Connection permit
   
53.41   Connection costs
   
53.42   Separate connections required
   
53.43   Existing building sewer
   
53.44   Building sewer design
   
53.45   Building sewer elevation
   
53.46   Surface runoff and groundwater drains
   
53.47   Conformance to applicable codes
   
53.48   Connection inspection
   
53.49   Excavation guards and property restoration
   
53.50   Protection of capacity for existing users
Conditions of Use
   
53.55   Special uses
   
53.56   Restricted discharges
   
53.57   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.58   Special agreements
   
53.59   Water and energy conservation
Class III Industrial Discharges
   
53.65   Information requirements
   
53.66   Provisions for monitoring
   
53.67   Determination of wastewater characteristics
   
53.68   Costs of damage
Pretreatment
   
53.70   Wastewaters with special characteristics
   
53.71   Compliance with pretreatment requirements
   
53.72   Monitoring requirements
   
53.73   Effect of federal law
   
53.74   Revision of pretreatment standards
Wastewater Service Charges
   
53.80   Payment
   
53.81   Basis
   
53.82   Determination of system use
   
53.83   Specific fees and charges
   
53.84   Industrial park sewer rates
Enforcement
   
53.90   Inspections
   
53.91   Right of entry
   
53.92   Security clearance
   
53.93   Governmental function
   
53.94   Monetary liability
   
53.95   Enforcement alternatives
   
53.96   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
53.97   Publication of significant violations
   
53.98   Notice of violation
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as amended.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing and Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The town Wastewater Treatment Utility.
   AUTHORITY, OTHER. Other bona fide regulatory agencies.
   B.O.D. (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen used in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
during five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COMMERCIAL USER (CLASS II). Any property occupied by a nonresidential
establishment not within the definition of an Industrial User (Class III), and
which is connected to the wastewater facilities.
   COUNCIL. The elected legislative body of the town.
   DAY. The 24-hour period beginning at 12:01 a.m.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for a specific use of land owned by
others.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   GARBAGE. The solid animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the domestic
or commercial handling, storage, dispensing, preparation, cooking, and serving
of foods.
   GROUNDWATER. Water within the earth.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (CLASS III). Any nonresidential user identified in Division
A, B, D, E, or I of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual. CLASS III
also shall include any user that discharges wastewater containing toxic or
poisonous substances as defined in §§ 307 and 502 of the Clean Water Act, being
33 U.S.C. §§ 1317 and 1362, or any substance causing interference in the
wastewater facilities. Class III shall include any nonresidential user who: is
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards; has a nondomestic flow
of 25,000 gallons or more per average work day; contributes more than 5% of the
average dry weather capacity of the wastewater facility; or is determined by
the state regulatory agency or the Manager to have potential to adversely
affect the wastewater facility.
   INTERFERENCE. Inhibition or disruption of any sewer system, wastewater
treatment process, sludge disposal system, or their operation, which
substantially contributes to a violation of applicable discharge permits.
   MANAGER. The Director of Municipal Operations of the town wastewater system
or his or her authorized designee.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or any
other body of surface or groundwater.
   NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit program,
whether administered by the EPA or by the state.
   OWNER. The person or persons who legally own, lease, or occupy private
property with wastewater facilities that discharge, or will discharge, to the
town wastewater facilities.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen concentration expressed
in grams per liter of solution, as determined by Standard Methods.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater before discharge from the town wastewater facilities.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded such that all
particles will be carried freely under flow conditions normally prevailing in
the wastewater sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
   RESIDENTIAL USER (CLASS I). All premises used only for human residency and
that are connected to the wastewater facilities.
   SANITARY WASTEWATER. Wastewater discharge from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings, office buildings, industrial plants, or institutions.
   STANDARD METHODS. The latest edition of Standard Methods for Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association,
Water Pollution Control Federation, and American Water Works Association.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying storm, surface, or any other waters that
are not intended to be transported to a treatment facility.
   SURFACE WATER. Water that occurs when the rate of precipitation exceeds the
rate at which water may percolate into the soil.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water or wastewater, as determined by
C.F.R. pt. 136.
   TOXICS. Any of the pollutants designated by federal regulations pursuant to
§ 307(a)(1) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)(1).
   WASTEWATER. A combination of liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industries, and institutions, together with
any groundwater, surface water, or storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITY. The combination of wastewater sewers and treatment
facilities.
   WASTEWATER SEWER. The structures, processes, equipment, and arrangements
necessary to collect and transport wastewater to the treatment facility.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY. The structures, processes, equipment, and
arrangements necessary to treat and discharge wastewaters.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-4-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the maximum possible
beneficial public use of the town wastewater facilities through regulation of
sewer construction, sewer use, and wastewater discharges; to provide for
equitable distribution of the costs of the town wastewater facilities; and to
provide procedures for complying with the requirements contained herein.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.03 SCOPE.
   (A)   The definitions of terms used in this chapter are found in §
53.01. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the discharge of all
wastewater to facilities of the town. This chapter provides for use of the town
wastewater facilities, regulation of sewer construction, control of the
quantity and quality of wastewater discharged, wastewater pretreatment,
equitable distribution of costs, sewer construction plans, issuance of
wastewater discharge permits, minimum sewer construction standards and
conditions, and penalties and other procedures in case of violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to the town and to persons outside the town
who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users of the town’s wastewater
sewers or wastewater treatment facilities.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Manager of the town
wastewater systems shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.05 VANDALISM.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment that is part of the town’s wastewater facilities. Any person who
violates this section shall be subject to a penalty for each such violation not
to exceed $2,500. Civil action by the town deemed necessary to recover loss or
damages incurred will not be abrogated by criminal proceedings or dispositions
under state law, or limited by the foregoing penalty.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.06 SEVERABILITY.
   A finding by any court or other jurisdiction that any part or provision of
this chapter is invalid shall not affect the validity of any other part or
provision of this chapter that can be implemented without the invalid parts or
provisions.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.07 AMENDMENTS.
   Public notice shall be given as may be required by law before adoption of
any amendments of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.08 OPERATING EXPENSES OF SEWER SYSTEM.
   Money to defray the operating expense of the sewer system and for
maintaining the sewer depreciation fund shall be acquired from the general fund
of the town by appropriation to the incorporated into the municipal budget.
(1963 Code, Ch. 12, § 19) (Ord. 3-1949, passed - -)
§ 53.09 WASTEWATER CASH RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   A cash reserve fund is created for the town wastewater utility and
carried on the record of the utility, to which fund contributions or transfers
of surplus earnings of the utility may be made.
   (B)   Surplus earnings are defined as those cash earnings remaining after
provisions have been made to pay current obligations, including those for
operating expenses, depreciation or replacement funds, or any other priority
fund requirements fixed by ordinance or by law.
   (C)   No transfer to the cash reserve fund shall be made unless or until a
depreciation or replacement fund has been established for the utility to which
shall accrue funds designated for system and equipment capital repairs,
replacements and additions.
   (D)   There shall be transferred to the cash reserve fund the surplus
earnings of the utility. The transfers shall be made each calendar month upon
satisfying the terms set forth in division (C) above.
   (E)   In each calendar year, the Council may transfer by resolution to the
municipal general fund an amount to compensate the town for taxes that would be
due the town on the wastewater utility property if it were privately owned.
Each transfer shall be billed on the value of the utilities assets as would be
subject to taxes on December 31 of the previous year. Provided, nevertheless,
the transfer shall not exceed the actual balance of the cash reserve fund as of
July 31 of the current year.
(Ord. 6-2013, passed 10- -2013)
USE OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES
§ 53.15 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.16 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Wastewater discharges to the town wastewater facilities are not
authorized unless approved by the Manager in accordance with provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.17 WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.18 CONNECTION TO SEWER REQUIRED.
   The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes under the jurisdiction of this
chapter and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is or
may be located a wastewater sewer connected to the town treatment facility, is
required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein
and to connect those facilities directly to the proper sewer in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to
do so, provided the proper wastewater sewer is within 100 feet of the property
line. This section shall not apply to any person served by a privately
constructed, owned, operated, or maintained wastewater sewer and wastewater
treatment facility that discharges directly to a natural outlet in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.19 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be installed at the owner’s
expense when, in the opinion of the Manager, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, and other harmful ingredients; except the interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Manager, and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
   (B)   When installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.20 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   (A)   When required by the Manager, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Manager. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense,
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with Standard Methods for the Examination of Waste and Sewage, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided for in division (A) above,
or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer system to the point at
which the building sewer is connected.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.21 SEWER LINE CONSTRUCTION.
   All lateral sewer line construction shall be paid for in advance by the
party or parties so requesting the construction and the construction shall be
made under the supervision of a representative of the Manager.
(1963 Code, Ch. 12, § 17) (Ord. 1-1946, passed 2-4-1946; Am. Ord. 9-1990,
passed 7-1-1991)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 53.30 EXCLUSIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any private system that discharges to
wastewater facilities of the town or that discharges directly to a natural
outlet by authority of a separate NPDES permit and in compliance with
applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.31 PRIVATE SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   All houses, buildings, or properties within the corporation limits or
extended service area of the town that are required by other authority to have
sanitary or industrial wastewater facilities, are subject to the jurisdiction
of this chapter, and are located where a proper wastewater sewer is not
available as specified by the provisions of §§
53.17 and
53.18, shall be equipped at the owner’s expense with suitable wastewater
facilities connected to a private wastewater disposal system, which complies
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.32 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   Before beginning construction of a private wastewater disposal system
required under §
53.31 above, the owner shall first obtain a written construction permit signed
by the Manager, in addition to any state or county permits required. The
application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the town, which
the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other
information relevant to wastewater discharges as are deemed necessary by the
Manager. A permit and inspection fee of $50 shall be paid to the town at the
time the application is filed.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.33 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of the state or applicable federal
law. No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system
employing subsurface soil disposal facilities where the area of the lot is less
than current regulatory requirements. Septic tank or cesspool discharges
require the use of subsurface disposal. This requirement excludes deep well
disposal as defined by state and federal laws.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.34 OPERATING PERMIT.
   Before beginning of operation of a private wastewater disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written operating permit signed by the Manager. The
operating permit shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the Manager. The Manager shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the
operating permit shall notify the Manager when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within two normal business days after receipt of notice by the
Manager. Failure to obtain the permit and adhere to the inspection requirements
shall initiate legal action by the authority, and shall be subject to the
penalty as prescribed by and set forth in §
10.99 of
Chapter 10 (Rules of Construction; General Penalty) of Title I (General
Provisions) of the Town Code of Hagerstown, Indiana.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991: Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
§ 53.35 CONNECTION TO TOWN SYSTEM WHEN AVAILABLE.
   At such time as a wastewater sewer becomes available, as defined in §
53.18, to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct
connection shall be made to the wastewater sewer within 120 days of
availability of the system, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
wastewater disposal facilities shall be emptied as prescribed by local, state,
or county regulations and filled with a suitable material at the owner’s
expense.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.36 SANITARY OPERATION REQUIRED.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times in accordance with the conditions
of the operating permit and at no expense to the town. The facilities shall be
subject to inspection by the Manager at reasonable times.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.37 FURTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by all other applicable
authority.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.40 CONNECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any wastewater sewer or storm sewer
without first obtaining a written permit from the Manager.
   (B)   There shall be three classes of permits for connections to the town’s
wastewater facilities: Class I - Residential; Class II - Commercial; and Class
III - Industrial. In all cases, the owner shall make application on a special
form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be supplemented by
wastewater information required to administer this chapter. A permit inspection
fee of $50 for a Class I, $150 for a Class II, and $300 for a Class III
connection permit shall be paid to the town at the time the application is
filed.
   (C)   Connections to a storm sewer shall be subject to a permit and
inspection fee not to exceed $5,000. The connections shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter and the approval of the Manager and Council.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.41 CONNECTION COSTS.
   (A)   The costs and expenses incidental to the building sewer installation
and connection to the town’s wastewater facilities shall be borne by the owner,
to include site restoration to original condition. The owner shall indemnify
the town from any loss or damage that directly or indirectly may result from
the installation of the building sewer.
   (B)   A charge of $250 shall be made to a property owner for connecting his
or her sewer facilities by a tap to an existing town sewer; provided,
nevertheless, that no charge shall be made for a sewer tap to the existing
sewer in the industrial park platted by the town. All properties within 100
feet of an existing sewer having improvements thereon shall be required to be
connected to the existing sewer.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a new sewer system is installed in an area not before
served, all properties within 100 feet of the new sewer having improvements
thereon shall be required to connect to the new sewer at the time of its
installation. Connection charges for this service shall be determined by the
Council before the new system is installed and shall apply to all properties.
      (2)   All properties required by this section to connect to the new sewer
system designed as the East Side Sewer Extension Project No. S-3081 shall be
required to pay a connection charge of $1,000 to tap on the sewer when the
sewer is installed and available for the connection in the town. Any property
owner of unplatted contiguous land or of land within a subdivision, or any
subdivider of a platted subdivision having local sewers connecting to the
Project S-3081 sewer system, shall also be required to pay a connection charge
of $500 for each additional improvement on the property connected to the local
sewer served by Project S-3081 sewer system, or for each individual lot or
improvement within a subdivision served by a local sewer system designated as
East Side Sewer Extension Project No. S-3081.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991; Am. Ord. 18-
2021, passed 12-6-2021) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.42 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except when one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway. In those cases,
the building sewer serving the front building may be extended to the rear
building and the whole considered as one building sewer. The town assumes no
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any single
building sewer that serves two buildings. Both buildings will be subject to
separate user fees based on current metering systems.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 2-1979, passed 2-5-1979; Am. Ord. 12-
1985, passed 11-18-1985; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.43 EXISTING BUILDING SEWER.
   Existing building sewers may be used for connection of new buildings only
when they are found, after examination and test by the Manager, to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.44 BUILDING SEWER DESIGN.
   The size, slope, alignment, construction materials, trench excavation and
backfill methods, pipe placement, jointing, and testing methods used in the
construction and installation of a building sewer shall conform to the building
and plumbing code or other applicable requirements of the town. In the absence
of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF shall apply.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.45 BUILDING SEWER ELEVATION.
   Whenever practical, the building sewer shall be brought to a building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In buildings in which any building drain is
too low to permit gravity flow to the town’s wastewater sewer, wastewater
carried by that building drain shall be lifted by an ATSM-approved means at the
owner’s expense and discharged to a building sewer draining to the town sewer.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.46 SURFACE RUNOFF AND GROUNDWATER DRAINS.
   (A)   No person shall connect roof, foundation, areaway, parking lot,
roadway, or other surface runoff or groundwater drains to any sewer that is
connected to a wastewater treatment facility.
   (B)   Roof, foundation, areaway, parking lot, roadway, or other surface
runoff or groundwater drains shall discharge to natural outlets or storm
sewers.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.47 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE CODES.
   (A)   The connection of a building sewer into a wastewater sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable requirements of the town not in conflict herewith, or to the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM or the WPCF. The
connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper
testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved in writing by the Manager before installation.
   (B)   The connection of a surface runoff or groundwater drain to a storm
sewer or natural outlet designed to transport surface runoff or groundwater
drainage shall conform to the requirements of the applicable building code or
other applicable requirements of the town.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.48 CONNECTION INSPECTION.
   The applicant for a building sewer or other drainage connection permit shall
notify the Manager when the sewer or drainage connection is ready for
inspection before its connection to the town facilities. The connection and
testing, as deemed necessary by the Manager, shall be made under the
supervision of the Manager. Failure to adhere to the requirements of this
section shall be subject to the penalty as prescribed by and set forth in §
10.99 of
Chapter 10 (Rules of Construction; General Penalty) of Title I (General
Provisions) of the Town Code of Hagerstown, Indiana.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991; Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
§ 53.49 EXCAVATION GUARDS AND PROPERTY RESTORATION.
   Excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks,
parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall
be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.50 PROTECTION OF CAPACITY FOR EXISTING USERS.
   The Manager shall not issue a permit for any class of connection to the
town’s wastewater sewers or wastewater treatment facilities unless there is
sufficient capacity not legally committed to other users in the wastewater
sewers and wastewater facilities to convey and adequately treat the quantity of
wastewater that the requested connection will add to the system. The Manager
may permit such a connection if there are legally binding commitments to
provide the needed capacity.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
CONDITIONS OF USE
§ 53.55 SPECIAL USES.
   All uncontaminated discharges of stormwater, surface water, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or other waters not required to be treated in
the treatment facility shall be made to storm sewers or natural outlets
designed for the discharges.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.56 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   A user of the POTW, whether or not that user is subject to national
categorical standards or state, local, or any other national pretreatment
standard or requirement, shall not allow the introduction of the following into
the POTW:
      (1)   A pollutant from any source of nondomestic wastewaters that could
pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance of the
POTW;
      (2)   Any pollutant that could create a fire or explosion hazard,
including waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C)
using the test methods in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (3)   Any pollutant that could cause corrosive structural damage to the
town’s wastewater facilities, including a discharge with pH lower than 5.0 or
more than 11.0, unless the town’s wastewater facilities have been specifically
designed to accommodate such a discharge;
      (4)   A solid or viscous pollutant in an amount that could cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of
the POTW;
      (5)   A pollutant, including an oxygen demanding pollutant (such as
biochemical oxygen demand) released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant
concentration that could cause interference in the POTW;
      (6)   Contain heat in an amount that could:
         (a)   Inhibit biological activity in the POTW and result in
interference or damage to the POTW; or
         (b)   Exceed 40°C or 104°F at the POTW treatment plant unless the
Commissioner, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature limits.
      (7)   Petroleum, oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in an amount that could cause interference or pass through;
      (8)   Contain more than 100 milligrams per liter of nonbiodegradable oils
of mineral or petroleum origin;
      (9)   A pollutant that could result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors, or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
      (10)   Contain floatable oils, fat, or grease;
      (11)   Contain radioactive wastes in harmful quantities as defined by
applicable state and federal guidelines;
      (12)   Contain any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (13)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except:
         (a)   With the permission of the POTW; and
         (b)   When introduced to the POTW at a discharge point designated by
the POTW.
      (14)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair; and/or
      (15)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit.
   (B)   The Town of Hagerstown reserves the right to establish, by ordinance
or in individual wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this
section.
   (C)   If in establishing discharge restrictions, discharge limits or
pretreatment standards pursuant to this section, the Manager establishes
concentration limits to be met by an industrial user, the Manager, in lieu of
concentration limits, may establish mass limits of comparable stringency for an
individual industrial user at the request of the user.
(Ord. 9-2017, passed 8-21-2017; Am. Ord. 1-2021, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 53.57 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any wastewater
facilities, wastewaters containing substances in excess of the quantity
prescribed by the applicable Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standard
promulgated by EPA, except as otherwise provided in this section. Compliance
with the applicable pretreatment standards shall be within three years of the
date the standard is promulgated for existing sewers; however, compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard for new sources shall be required upon
connection to the publicly-owned treatment works.
   (B)   Upon application by a Class III user, the Manager shall revise any
limitations on substances specified in the applicable pretreatment standards to
reflect removal of the substances by the wastewater treatment facility. The
revised discharge limit for specified substances shall be derived in accordance
with federal law.
   (C)   Upon application by a Class III user, the Manager shall adjust any
limitation on substances specified in the applicable pretreatment standards to
consider factors relating to the users that are fundamentally different from
the factors considered by EPA during the development of the pretreatment
standard. Requests for and determinations of fundamentally different
adjustments shall be in accordance with federal law.
   (D)   The Manager shall notify any Class III user affected by the provisions
of this section and establish an enforceable compliance schedule for each.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.58 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement or arrangement between the town and any user of the wastewater
facilities, whereby wastewater of unusual strength or character is accepted
into the system and specially treated subject to any applicable payments or
user charges.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.59 WATER AND ENERGY CONSERVATION.
   The conservation of water and energy shall be encouraged by the Manager. In
establishing discharge restrictions for industrial users, the Manager shall
consider already implemented or planned conservation steps revealed by the
Class III user. At the Manager’s request, each industrial user will provide
pertinent information showing that the quantities of substances or pollutants
have not been, nor will be, increased as a result of the conservation steps.
After such a showing is deemed satisfactory, the Manager shall adjust the
discharge restrictions, which have been based on concentrations, to reflect the
conservation steps.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
CLASS III INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES
§ 53.65 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All Class III dischargers shall file with the town all wastewater
information deemed necessary by the Manager for determination of compliance
with this chapter, the town’s NPDES permit conditions, and state and federal
law. This information shall be provided by completion of a questionnaire
designed and supplied by the Manager and by supplements thereto as necessary.
Information requested in the questionnaire and designated by the discharger as
confidential is subject to the conditions of confidentiality as set forth in
division (C) below.
   (B)   A person who owns, operates, or occupies properties designated as a
Class III discharger at more than one location shall submit separate
information for each location as may be required by the Manager.
   (C)   The Manager shall implement measures to ensure the confidentiality of
information provided by a Class III discharger pursuant to this chapter. In no
event shall the Manager delegate this responsibility or disclose any claimed
confidential information to any person except other regulatory authorities
without prior written notice to the owner and without providing the owner the
opportunity to project the confidential information, including the right to
seek judicial relief.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.66 PROVISIONS FOR MONITORING.
   The town, by way of its Town Manager, so as to ensure proper monitoring of
its wastewater facilities, has legal authority to:
   (A)   Develop and enforce specific limits on prohibited substances;
   (B)   Enter the premises of any industrial user to conduct inspections,
surveillance, record review, and/or monitoring, as necessary to determine
compliance with the SUO and, if applicable, any effective industrial wastewater
pretreatment permit;
   (C)   Accept or deny any new or increased discharges from any indirect
discharger;
   (D)   Immediately halt or prevent any discharge or pollutants to the POTW
which reasonably appear to present an imminent endangerment to the health or
welfare of the public, the environment, and/or which threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW;
   (E)   Require compliance with all applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements by indirect dischargers;
   (F)   Impose fees, if necessary, to offset the cost incurred by the
permittee for administering the pretreatment program requirements established
in Part III of the town’s NPDES permit; and
   (G)   Impose a fine of not more than $2,500 per day per violation for a
first violation nor more than $7,500 per day per violation for subsequent
violations, in accordance with I.C. 36-l-3-8(a)(10)(B).
(Ord. 9-2017, passed 8-21-2017; Am. Ord. 1-2021, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 53.67 DETERMINATION OF WASTEWATER CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   Measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of wastewater
to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be determined in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. § 136 methods approved by the Manager and shall comply with
state and federal law. Sampling locations, times, duration, and frequencies
shall be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Manager.
The discharger shall have the option to use, at his or her own expense, more
complete approved sampling methods, locations, times, duration, and frequencies
than specified by the Manager. Any additional results beyond those required are
also to be reported to the control authority.
   (B)   Measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of wastewater
required by this chapter shall be performed by a qualified laboratory certified
by the state. When the analyses are required of a discharger by the town, the
discharger shall arrange for independent testing to be performed by a qualified
laboratory certified by the state, and shall furnish copies of the results of
the tests to the Manager. This independent testing shall be at the expense of
the discharger.
   (C)   Monitoring of wastewater characteristics necessary for determining
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards shall be conducted on the
basis of the schedule below, unless more frequent monitoring is required by
authority other than this chapter, or if the Manager determines that the
characteristics of the specific discharge warrant more frequent monitoring.
 
Average Actual Discharge          Monitoring Frequency
Less than 100,000 gallons per day Semiannually
100,000 - 999,999 gallons per day Quarterly
More than 999,999 gallons per day Monthly
 
   (D)   Monitoring of wastewater characteristics for any purpose other than
determining compliance with pretreatment standards shall be conducted on a
frequency deemed necessary by the Manager.
   (E)   Upon demonstration by any person that the characteristics of the
wastewater discharge by that person are consistent, the Manager may reduce the
monitoring frequency as may be required by authority other than this chapter.
In no case shall the frequency of monitoring be less than semiannual for
determining compliance with pretreatment standards.
   (F)   In determining the discharge characteristics, factors such as
continuous, batch, or seasonal operation, as well as the information
requirements of other provisions in this chapter, shall be considered by the
Manager. The Manager may obtain wastewater samples as required to verify the
consistency of discharge characteristics.
   (G)   Fees for any given measurement, test, or analysis of wastewater
required by this chapter and performed by the town shall be the same for all
classes of dischargers, regardless of the quantity or quality of the discharge,
and shall reflect only direct cost. Costs of analyses by an independent
laboratory at the option of the discharger shall be borne directly by the
discharger.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.68 COSTS OF DAMAGE.
   If the drainage or discharge from any establishment causes a deposit,
obstruction, or damage to any of the wastewater facilities, the Manager shall
cause the deposit or obstruction to be promptly removed or cause the damage to
be promptly repaired. The cost for the work, including materials, labor, and
supervision, shall be borne by the person causing the deposit, obstruction, or
damage.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
PRETREATMENT
§ 53.70 WASTEWATERS WITH SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   The Manager should initially rely on Federal Categorical Pretreatment
Standards of §
53.57 to protect wastewater facilities or receiving waters. However, if any
wastewater that contains substances or characteristics shown to have
deleterious effects on the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or that constitute a public nuisance or hazard, is discharged
or proposed for discharge to the wastewater sewers, the Manager may:
      (1)   Require pretreatment to a condition acceptable for discharge to the
wastewater sewers;
      (2)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
      (3)   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastewaters not covered by existing fees and charges;
      (4)   Require development of compliance schedules to meet any applicable
treatment requirements;
      (5)   Require the submission of reports necessary to ensure compliance
with applicable pretreatment requirements;
      (6)   Carry out all inspections, surveillance, and monitoring necessary
to determine compliance with applicable pretreatment requirements;
      (7)   Obtain remedies for noncompliance by any user. These remedies may
include injunctive relief, the civil penalties specified in this chapter, or
appropriate criminal penalties; and/or
      (8)   Reject the wastewater if scientific evidence indicates the
discharge will create unreasonable hazards or have unreasonable deleterious
effects on the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   When considering the above alternatives, the Manager shall ensure that
conditions of the town’s NPDES permit are met. The Manager also shall consider
the cost-effectiveness and the economic impact of the alternatives on the
discharger. If the Manager allows the pretreatment or equalization of
wastewater flows, the installation of necessary facilities shall be subject to
review. The Manager shall review and recommend any appropriate changes to the
program within 30 days of submittal.
   (C)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any wastewater, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.71 COMPLIANCE WITH PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Persons required to pretreat wastewater in accordance with §
53.70 above shall provide a statement to be reviewed by an authorized
representative of the user and certified by a qualified person. This statement
shall indicate whether applicable pretreatment requirements are being met on a
consistent basis, and, if not, describe the additional operation and
maintenance or additional pretreatment needed for the user to meet the
pretreatment requirements. If additional pretreatment or operation and
maintenance will be required to meet the pretreatment requirements, the user
shall submit a plan, including schedules, to the Manager. The plan, including
schedules, shall be consistent with applicable conditions of the town’s NPDES
permit or other local, state, or federal laws.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.72 MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   Discharges of wastewater to the wastewater facilities from the facilities of
any user shall be monitored in accordance with the provisions of §§
53.66 and
53.67.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.73 EFFECT OF FEDERAL LAW.
   If the federal government promulgates a regulation for a given new or
existing user in a specific industrial subcategory that establishes
pretreatment standards or establishes that such a user is exempt from
pretreatment standards, the federal regulations shall immediately supersede §
53.70(A).
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.74 REVISION OF PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The Manager shall promptly apply for and obtain authorization from the EPA
to revise discharge limitations for those substances listed in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards for which consistent removal occurs in the
wastewater treatment facilities of the town. The Manager shall not adopt or
enforce discharge limitations more stringent than the requested limitations
until the state or EPA acts on the application.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 53.80 PAYMENT.
   (A)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid to the town. Those fees and charges shall be as set forth in §
53.83.
   (B)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter are
due and payable as outlined in this chapter. Unpaid fees and charges shall
become delinquent and shall be subject to penalty and interest charges as
outlined in this chapter.
   (C)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter are
due and payable on the receipt of notice of charges. Unpaid charges shall
become delinquent and shall be subject to penalty and interest charges as
outlined in this chapter.
   (D)   Water which is used in the process of manufacturing, or for any other
purpose, which does not discharge into the public sewer system shall be exempt
from charges, providing, however, that the property owner shall install the
necessary meters to indicate the amount of water which does not discharge into
the public sewer system of the town, which meter shall be subject to the
approval of the Council.
   (E)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection, as well as
for other uses, the town may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the
minimum charge and in the use charge as may be equitable. In those cases, the
burden of proof as to the type of water usage shall be upon the user.
   (F)   (1)   In the case of apartment houses, multiple dwellings, and trailer
courts, each apartment, dwelling, and trailer shall be considered a separate
unit for billing purposes. Where the physical structure of an apartment house,
multiple dwelling, or trailer court is such that it would be impractical to
meter separately each unit for water and more than one unit is metered by a
single meter, then the amount of monthly sewer bill shall be computed as
follows:
         (a)   The minimum charge will be the current service charge multiplied
by the number of units; and
         (b)   The metered charge shall be calculated on the basis of the total
gallons used at the current rate.
      (2)   In the case of business houses occupied by more than one business,
the number of units for billing purposes shall be the number of businesses
occupying the business house, provided that each are separately metered. Where
the physical structure is such that it would be impractical to meter separately
each unit for water and more than one unit is metered by a single meter, then
the number of units for billing purposes shall be computed as follows: Where
more than one business is metered by a single meter, then the number of units
for billing purposes shall be determined by the number of units having water
and sewage connections located within the leased, rented, or occupied interior
premises of the business, or having private access to a water and sewage
connection which is identified specifically for the lessee, tenants, or
occupant not having been granted an official interruption of service by the
water utility.
      (3)   Where the physical structure of a business house is such that it
would be impractical to meter separately each unit for water and more than one
unit is metered by a single meter, then the amount of monthly sewer bill shall
be computed as follows:
         (a)   The minimum charge will be the current service charge multiplied
by the number of units for billing purposes, based on the determination above
in division (F)(2) above; and
         (b)   The metered charge shall be calculated on the basis of the total
gallons used at the current rate.
   (G)   For services rendered to the town by the sewage treatment works, the
town shall be subject to and pay like rates and charges as herein provided for
other users.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the officer or officers charged with
collection of the rates and charges to enforce payment thereof, together with
penalties and other charges provided by law or by this chapter. The due date
for all fees and charges under this chapter shall be 15 days from the billing
date thereof. All bills for sewer service not paid by the due date (which shall
mean within 15 days from the billing date thereof, as stated in the bills),
shall be considered delinquent, and shall incur a penalty of 10% of the
delinquent amount. If any fees and charges shall not be paid for service
rendered to any lot, parcel of real estate, or building served, within 30 days
after written notice of the amount due has been given thereof, with a sewer
bill constituting the written notice, the Town shall proceed to enforce payment
against the owner as directed by the Town Council as provided by law.
Additionally, but not by way of limitation, the amount of the fee, the penalty,
and a reasonable attorney’s fee may be recovered by the town in a civil action
in the name of the town, and, notwithstanding other rights within this chapter,
the town may enforce and collect payments due under this chapter by any legal
methods authorized by law, which shall include but not be limited to the
methods set forth within this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1968, passed 3-25-1968; Am. Ord. 11-1975, passed 12-15-1975; Am. Ord.
8-1979, passed 7-30-1979; Am. Ord. 11-1980, passed 12-1-1980; Am. Ord. 9-1990,
passed 7-1-1991; Am. Ord. 3-2003, passed 8-4-2003; Am. Ord. 5-2005, passed 6-6-
2005)
§ 53.81 BASIS.
   Charges and fees for the use of the public wastewater facilities shall be
based upon the actual use of the system or contractual obligation for use in
excess of current actual use. Property value may be used to collect the amount
due as permitted by federal law.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.82 DETERMINATION OF SYSTEM USE.
   (A)   The use of the town’s wastewater facilities shall be based on actual
measurement and analysis of each user’s wastewater discharge, in accordance
with provisions of §§
53.66 and
53.67, to the extent the measurements are considered by the Manager to be
feasible and cost-effective.
   (B)   Where measurement and analysis are not considered feasible, each
user’s use of the facilities shall be determined by the quantity of water used,
whether purchased from a public water utility or obtained from a private
source, or by an alternative means as provided by division (C) below.
   (C)   The Manager, when determining actual use of the town’s wastewater
facilities based on water use, shall consider consumptive, evaporative, or
other water use that results in a significant difference between a discharger’s
water use and wastewater discharge. When appropriate, the consumptive water use
may be metered to aid in determining actual use of the wastewater facilities.
The type of meters used to measure the water uses and their installation shall
be approved by the Manager. If the discharger makes a claim that any
information requested on this form is confidential, the information shall be
submitted on a separate sheet of paper.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.83 SPECIFIC FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Authority to measure sewage discharge. The town shall have the right
to measure and determine the amount, strength, and character of all sewage and
wastes discharged either directly or indirectly into the town’s sewer system,
in such a manner and by the method as it may find practicable in the light of
the conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order to determine
the proper rate or charge in accordance with the rate schedule set out in this
section.
   (B)   Metered rates per month.
      (1)   Fees, rates, and charges per month shall be collected for the use
of and the service rendered by the sewage treatment works from the owners of
each and every lot, parcel of real estate or building that is connected with
and uses the works by or through any part of the sewage system, or that in any
way uses or is served by the works, and the rates and charges shall be payable
as hereinafter provided for each unit of each user served by the sewer works.
      (2)   The fees, rates, and charges shall be determined as follows, except
as may be provided otherwise herein:
         (a)   Service charge per user unit:
            1.   Phase I (effective 2/1/2022): $42.13.
            2.   Phase II (effective 1/1/2023): $43.39.
            3.   Phase III (effective 1/1/2024): $44.69.
         (b)   Metered rates per user unit per month per 1,000 gallons, up to
1,000,000 gallons:
            1.   Phase I (effective 2/1/2022): $2.67.
            2.   Phase II (effective 1/1/2023): $2.75.
            3.   Phase III (effective 1/1/2024): $2.83.
         (c)   Metered rates per user unit per month per 1,000 gallons, over
1,000,000 gallons:
            1.   Phase I (effective 2/1/2022): $1.34.
            2.   Phase II (effective 1/1/2023): $1.38.
            3.   Phase III (effective 1/1/2024): $1.42.
   (C)   Billing date; service charges for new customer.
      (1)   The above fees, rates, and charges begin to accrue on February 1,
2022, and the first billing for rates and charges shall be made as of March 15,
2022. All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter are due
no later than 15 days from the date of billing as set forth in any utility
billing of the town ("due date" or "Due Date"). In the event that any service
charges are not paid on or before the due date, the unpaid charges are
delinquent and shall be subject to a late fee or penalty of 10% of the
delinquent amount.
      (2)   The fees, rates, and charges herein fixed shall be extended to and
cover any additional premises hereinafter connected with the sewer system
without the necessity of any hearing or notice. Service charges for a period of
less than one month shall be computed on the basis of the period during which
service is rendered.
      (3)   There shall be a deposit requirement of $100 for all new customers
of the town’s sewage treatment works to ensure the payment of sewer fees. The
deposit shall be retained in a separate fund by the town. The deposit, less any
outstanding penalties and service fees, shall be refunded to the depositor
after the depositor tenders to the town a notarized statement stating that as
of a certain date the property being served: (1) has been conveyed or
transferred to another person; or (2) is no longer used or is connected with
any part of the municipal sewage system. The notarized statement referred to
herein must include the name and address of the person to whom the property is
conveyed or transferred. If a depositor fails to satisfy costs and fees within
60 days after the termination of the use or ownership of the property served,
the depositor forfeits the deposit. The forfeited amount shall be applied to
the depositor’s outstanding fees. Any excess that remains due after application
of the forfeiture may be collected in the manner prescribed by I.C. § 36-9-23-
31 et seq. A deposit may be used to satisfy all or part of any judgment awarded
the municipality under I.C. § 36-9-23-31. A deposit made under this section
that has remained unclaimed by the depositor for more than seven years after
the termination of the services for which the deposit was made shall become the
property of the town.
(Ord. 1-1968, passed 3-25-1968; Am. Ord. 11-1975, passed 12-15-1975 Am. Ord. 8-
1979, passed 7-30-1979; Am. Ord. 11-1980, passed 12-1-1980; Am. Ord. 8-1990,
passed 9-4-1990; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991; Am. Ord. 4-1994, passed 9-
12-1994; Am. Ord. 2-1998, passed 4-6-1998; Am. Ord. 5-2010, passed 6-7-2010;
Am. Ord. 9-2010, passed 9-7-2010; Am. Ord. 10-2015, passed 11-16-2015; Am. Ord.
18-2021, passed 12-6-2021)
§ 53.84 INDUSTRIAL PARK SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Generally. This section shall apply only to those industrial parks
wherein the developer of same has entered into an agreement with the town for
the provision of sanitary sewer collection and treatment service. This section
shall not be retroactive to existing industrial parks now served by the town
and its utilities.
   (B)   Fees, rates, and charges.
      (1)   Service charge. A charge as follows shall be assessed to each user
unit each calendar month:
         (a)   Phase I (effective 2/1/2022): $29.77.
         (b)   Phase II (effective 1/1/2023): $30.66.
         (c)   Phase III (effective 1/1/2024): $31.58.
      (2)   Metered rates per user unit per month per 1,000 gallons, up to
1,000,000 gallons:
         (a)   Phase I (effective 2/1/2022): $1.27.
         (b)   Phase II (effective 1/1/2023): $1.31.
         (c)   Phase III (effective 1/1/2024): $1.35.
      (3)   Metered rates per user unit per month per 1,000 gallons, over
1,000,000 gallons:
         (a)   Phase I (effective 2/1/2022): $0.70.
         (b)   Phase II (effective 1/1/2023): $0.72.
         (c)   Phase III (effective 1/1/2024): $0.74.
      (4)   Tapping fees.
         (a)   A tap fee of $400 shall be assessed each user unit upon
connection to the public sewer main.
         (b)   The tap connection and service line shall be constructed at the
using unit’s expense.
   (C)   Compliance. All customers being served by the Hagerstown Sewer
Department shall agree to abide by and remain in compliance with the Hagerstown
Code of Ordinances as found in the following atitles and chapters: Title V;
Chapter 50, General Provisions;
Chapter 53, Sewer Ordinance; Ordinance Number 4-1996, Industrial Park Schedule
of Rates (this section).
(Ord. 4-1996, passed 10-7-1996; Am. Ord. 18-2021, passed 12-6-2021)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.90 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Manager, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter properties at any reasonable time for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, and sampling of the wastewater discharged
to ensure that discharge to the town wastewater facilities is in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Manager, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private property at reasonable times, through which the
town holds an easement for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any of the town’s wastewater facilities
within the easement. All entry and any subsequent work on the easement shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in divisions (A) and (B) above, the Manager shall observe all safety rules
established by the owner or occupant of the property and applicable to the
premises.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.91 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Duly-authorized representatives of the authority may inspect the
property or facilities of any user (including facilities under construction) to
ascertain compliance with these regulations. Owners or occupants of premises
where storm water or wastewater is either generated or discharged shall allow
ready access to properly-identified authority representatives at all reasonable
times during normal business hours and at other times when the authority
reasonably suspects that a violation of these regulations may be occurring.
Authority members shall be admitted to the parts of the premises as necessary
to inspect, observe, measure, sample, and test:
      (1)   Internal plumbing;
      (2)   Pretreatment facilities;
      (3)   Internal discharge points or connections;
      (4)   Exterior connections;
      (5)   Building sewer or building storm drains;
      (6)   Oil traps and grease traps;
      (7)   Any other facilities required by the authority to be constructed,
installed, or used;
      (8)   Measurement, sampling, and testing facilities and procedures that
have been required by the authority; and
      (9)   Any other facilities that the manager reasonably believes may be
contributing to a violation of these regulations.
   (B)   The authority, alone or in conjunction with other authorities, may
conduct routine, periodic inspections of certain types of facilities.
Restaurants, other food handling establishments, gas stations, and other
entities that deal with petroleum products are the most likely subjects of
inspections. Other industrial users also may be so inspected as the authority
deems appropriate.
   (C)   With proper identification and at reasonable times during normal
business hours and at other times when the authority reasonably suspects a
violation of these regulations, duly-authorized representatives of the
authority shall be permitted to enter all private property through which
authority holds an easement for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, testing, maintenance, repair, and reconstruction of any
portion of the authority’s wastewater or storm drainage systems within the
easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the easement.
   (D)   When an owner or user, after receiving reasonable notice from the
authority, refuses to permit properly-identified authority personnel to enter
or have access to premises or facilities in accordance with this section, the
authority may give written notice of its intent to terminate water service to
the user. The notice shall be given in accordance with authority regulations
governing termination of service for reasons other than nonpayment, and
subsequent termination proceedings shall conform to the regulations. These
consequences are in addition to any other enforcement measures available under
county, state or federal law.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.92 SECURITY CLEARANCE.
   When a user has security measures in force that require clearance before
entry to the premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements to permit
authority personnel to enter without undue delay to carry out their specific
responsibilities.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.93 GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION.
   The authority shall perform a governmental function for the benefit of the
general public. The authority shall not be liable for any loss or damage as a
result of the performance of the governmental function.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.94 MONETARY LIABILITY.
   (A)   Penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit and pay to the authority the penalty established by general laws for
each such violation. Each day of a prohibited discharge shall constitute a
separate violation, if the discharge is continuous. If a prohibited discharge
is intermittent, each occurrence shall be considered a separate violation.
   (B)   Reimbursement for costs to authority. Failure to comply with any
portion of this chapter, or with any permit or order issued thereunder, shall
be sufficient cause for the authority to levy on and collect from each violator
an additional cost for expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the violation.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.95 ENFORCEMENT ALTERNATIVES.
   When the authority determines that a violation of this chapter or any
permit, or any damage to the authority’s collection system, is threatened or
has occurred, one or more of the following actions may be taken:
   (A)   The authority may issue an order to cease and desist the violation and
may direct the violator as follows:
      (1)   To comply either forthwith or in accordance with a time schedule
set forth by the authority; or
      (2)   To take appropriate remedial preventive action in the event of a
threatened violation.
   (B)   The authority may require the user in question to submit a detailed
time schedule setting forth the specific proposed actions to prevent or correct
a violation. The authority may issue an implementation schedule to the user,
containing or modifying the specific actions and time schedule or requiring
other actions within the time as the authority deems appropriate;
   (C)   The authority may issue an order directing the user to pay to the
authority penalties and costs in accordance with §
53.94; and
   (D)   The authority may take direct enforcement action by filing suit in any
court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to general laws or any other
applicable statute or regulation.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.96 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. When the Town Manager finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Town Manager may serve upon that user
a written notice of violation. Within 30 days of the receipt of such notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the Town Manager. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the
user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the
notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Town Manager to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The Town Manager may enter into consent orders,
assurances of compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement
with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents shall include
specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a
time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force
and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to divisions (D) and
(E) below and shall be judicially enforceable.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. The Town Manager may order a user which has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the Town Manager and
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the
proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that
the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least 15 days prior to the
hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the
user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
   (D)   Compliance orders. When the Town Manager finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Town Manager may issue an order to
the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into
compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance
within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and
properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to
address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the
sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance
established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance
order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders. When the Town Manager finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the user’s past violations are
likely to recur, the Town Manager may issue an order to the user directing it
to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and
desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
   (F)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the Town Manager finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Town Manager may impose a fine of no more than $2,500 per day
per violation for a first violation, nor more than $7,500 per day per violation
for subsequent violations, in accordance with I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B).
      (2)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 60 calendar days,
be assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest
shall accrue thereafter at a rate of 1.8% per month. A lien against the user’s
property shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
      (3)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request
for the Town Manager to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit,
the Town Manager may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user’s
appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto,
shall be returned to the user. The Town Manager may add the costs of preparing
administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
      (4)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (G)   Emergency suspensions. The Town Manager may immediately suspend a
user’s discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension
is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably
appears to present, or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons. The Town Manager may also immediately suspend a
user’s discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Town
Manager may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance
of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its
receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Town Manager may
allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Town Manager that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in division (H) below are initiated
against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Town Manager prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under divisions (C) or (H) of this section.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to
any emergency suspension under this section.
   (H)   Termination of discharge.
      (1)   Any user who violates the following conditions is subject to
discharge termination:
         (a)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
         (b)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         (c)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
         (d)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
         (e)   Violation of the pretreatment standards of this section.
      (2)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under division (C) above
why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the
Town Manager shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991; Am. Ord. 1-2021, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 53.97 PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A list of significant violators of this chapter during the previous 12
months shall be published annually by the authority in the largest daily
newspaper. The publication also may summarize any enforcement action taken
against each entity listed during the same 12-month period.
   (B)   For the purposes of this provision, significant violations shall be
those that either:
      (1)   Remain uncorrected for 45 days after notification of noncompliance;
      (2)   Are part of a pattern of noncompliance over a 12-month period; or
      (3)   Involve failure to accurately report noncompliance.
(Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.98 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found in violation of this chapter or any requirement of a permit
issued hereunder, may be served with a written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for compliance. Any such notice
given shall be in writing and served in person or by registered or certified
mail. The notice shall be sent to the last address of the violator known to the
Manager. When the address is unknown, services may be made on the owner of
record of the property involved. If satisfactory action is not taken in the
time allotted by the notice, §
53.99 shall be implemented.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Injunctive relief. When the Town Manager finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Town Manager may petition the Wayne
County Circuit Court through the town’s Attorney for the issuance of a
temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order,
or other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The
Town Manager may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or
equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the town for a civil penalty of at least $1,000 per day per violation in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(1)(vi)(A), but no more than $2,500 per
violation per day for a first violation. Subsequent violations can be fined at
up to $7,500 per day per violation in accordance with I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B).
In the case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties
shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
      (2)   The Town Manager may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the town.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (C)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The Town Manager may take any, all, or any combination of these
actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations
will generally be in accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan.
However, the Town Manager may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the Town Manager is empowered to take more than
one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 5-1973, passed 1-7-1974; Am. Ord. 9-1990, passed 7-1-1991; Am. Ord. 8-
2007, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1-2021, passed 1-4-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 54: WELLHEAD PROTECTION
Section
   
54.01   Short title
   
54.02   Purpose
   
54.03   Definitions
   
54.04   Regulated substances
   
54.05   Restrictions within the sanitary setback area
   
54.06   Exemptions
   
54.07   Conflict and severability
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Wellhead Protection Ordinance
of Hagerstown.
(Ord. 1-2001, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 54.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is the protection of health, life, resources,
and property through the regulation of hazardous substance transport and
storage and other related aspects of land use and development in the vicinity
of any well that supplies potable water to the Hagerstown community.
(Ord. 1-2001, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 54.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system operated by the town to serve
its residential, commercial, and industrial customers.
   GROUNDWATER. Water that lays in a saturated zone or stratum beneath the
surface of land or water, whether or not it is flowing through known channels.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Those materials specified in §
54.04.
   MANAGEMENT ZONES. A zone or zones that have been established to provide
protection to the area surrounding a well or well field from potential
contaminant sources. Management options may include limits on certain
activities, more stringent design and operating standards, and strict
monitoring of potential pollution sources. Multiple protection zones may be
established for different management strategies based on proximity to the
wellheads in question.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCT. Fuels, gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene, or other
derivatives of hydro-carbons distilled from crude oil.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that meets state and federal standards of purity, that
is ingested by human beings or used for domestic purposes.
   PRIMARY CONTAINMENT. The first level of product containment which is the
container which comes into contact with the material being contained.
   SECONDARY CONTAINMENT. The level of containment external to and separate
from the primary containment. SECONDARY CONTAINMENT must be of adequate design
to contain all leaks, spills, and overflows without experiencing substance
loss. Containment systems shall be sheltered in order to negate the intrusion
of precipitation.
   STORAGE SYSTEM. Any one or combination of tanks, sumps, wet floors, waste
treatment facility, pipes, vaults, or other portable or fixed container used,
or designed to be used, for the storage of hazardous substances.
   WATER SYSTEM. Buildings, structures, appurtenances, pipes, pumps, mains,
storage tanks, and valves that store and distribute potable water to end users.
   WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug,
jetted, or otherwise constructed, wherein the intended use of the excavation is
to conduct groundwater from an aquifer to the surface by pumping or natural
flow for consumption or use and/or to monitor the characteristics of
groundwater within an aquifer system.
(Ord. 1-2001, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 54.04 REGULATED SUBSTANCES.
   The following substances shall be regulated:
   (A)   Petroleum products as defined in §
54.03;
   (B)   Substances listed in the federal hazardous waste list; and
   (C)   Substances other than those listed in the federal hazardous waste list
that are determined by state or other regulatory agencies to pose a significant
threat to the community water supply.
(Ord. 1-2001, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 54.05 RESTRICTIONS WITHIN THE SANITARY SETBACK AREA.
   (A)   No person, entity, or concern shall discharge, or cause or permit the
discharge of, a hazardous substance including herbicides and pesticides to the
soils, groundwater, or surface water within the sanitary setback area which
radiates for a distance of 200 feet around each wellhead. Any person, entity,
or concern knowing or having evidence of a discharge shall report the
information to the Director of Municipal Operations.
   (B)   New sanitary landfills are prohibited within the sanitary setback
area.
   (C)   The use, handling, production, or storage of hazardous substances is
prohibited within the sanitary setback area, with the exception of those set
forth in §
54.06.
   (D)   Feedlots or other concentrated animal facilities are prohibited within
the sanitary setback area.
   (E)   Wastewater treatment plants are prohibited within the sanitary setback
area.
   (F)   Septic tanks private or otherwise are prohibited in the sanitary
setback area.
(Ord. 1-2001, passed 6-4-2001)
Penalty, see § 54.99
§ 54.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities or uses are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   (A)   The transportation of any hazardous substance through the sanitary
setback area, provided the transporting vehicle is in transit;
   (B)   Substances used in the treatment of water quality;
   (C)   The use of hazardous substances as fuel in a vehicle fuel tank or as a
lubricant;
   (D)   Fire, police, emergency medical services, emergency management
facilities, or public utility transmission facilities;
   (E)   Retail sales establishments that store and handle hazardous substances
for resale in their original unopened containers;
   (F)   Consumer products located within a home or public facility which are
for personal, household, or institutional use;
   (G)   The storage and use of hazardous substances as fuel or lubricant to
provide auxiliary power for emergency use to the well field, provided an
enclosed secondary containment system is utilized;
   (H)   Herbicides and pesticides used in the wellhead protection area outside
the sanitary setback zone, provided all state and federal regulations are being
complied with in the use of the herbicides and pesticides; and
   (I)   Consumer products stored and used exclusively for janitorial or minor
maintenance purposes.
(Ord. 1-2001, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 54.07 CONFLICT AND SEVERABILITY.
   In case of a conflict between this chapter, or any part thereof, and an
existing ordinance, in whole or in part, the most restrictive provisions shall
apply. Further, if any word, clause, phrase, portion, or provision is held
invalid by any duly authorized court in the State of Indiana or the United
States of America, the decision shall not affect the remainder or any other
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2001, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1-2001, passed 6-4-2001; Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
CHAPTER 55: BACKFLOW PREVENTION
Section
   
55.01   Definition
   
55.02   Cross connections prohibited
   
55.03   Inspections
   
55.04   Entry
   
55.05   Precautionary measures
   
55.06   Discontinuance of service
   
55.07   Backflow preventer
   
55.08   Installation location
   
55.09   Relation to other laws
   
55.10   Installation procedure
§ 55.01 DEFINITION.
   A CROSS CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 55.02 CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No interconnection
shall be established whereby potable water from a private, auxiliary, or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the town,
may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality, unless such
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the town and by the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management in accordance with 327 IAC 8-10.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 55.03 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to be made of all
properties served by the public water system where cross connections with the
public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and re-
inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be established by
the town.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 55.04 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town shall have
the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine the property
served by a connection to the public water system of town for cross
connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross connections.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 55.05 PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES.
   The town is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water service to
any property wherein any connection in violation of this chapter exists, and to
take such other precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water system. Water service shall be
discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on the owner, lessee, or
occupants of the property or premises where a violation is found or suspected
to exist. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the cross
connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 55.06 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   If it is deemed by the town that a cross connection or an emergency
endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate action, and
a written finding to that effect is filed with the Town Clerk, and delivered to
the consumer's premises, service may be immediately discontinued. The consumer
shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten days of such emergency
discontinuance.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 55.07 BACKFLOW PREVENTER.
   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals, mortuaries,
wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous users
install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow preventer in the
main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow preventer
must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding or
freezing.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 55.08 INSTALLATION LOCATION.
   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be installed
below ground level.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 55.09 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
   This chapter does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, the IDEM Rule 327
IAC 8-10 or related town waterworks ordinances, but is supplementary to the
same.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 55.10 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   If, in the judgment of the town, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water system, the town will give notice
to the water consumer to install such an approved device immediately. The water
consumer shall, at his own expenses, install such an approved device at a
location and in a manner approved by the town, and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices as required by the town, and in accordance
with the IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-10.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
   
72.   STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
   
73.   PEDESTRIANS
   
74.   BICYCLES
   
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
   
76.   ATVS; RECREATIONAL OFF- ROAD VEHICLES; GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Title; Definitions
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Definitions
Enforcement and Obedience to Traffic Regulations
   
70.05   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.06   Required obedience to traffic code
   
70.07   Obedience to police officials
   
70.08   Pushcarts; riding animals
   
70.09   Public employees
   
70.10   Exemptions to authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.11   Vehicle identification fee
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Obedience to traffic-control devices required
   
70.16   Signs or marks
   
70.17   Play streets
   
70.18   Traffic-control signal legend
Violation Procedure
   
70.20   Warning notices
   
70.21   Notice; service by police officer
   
70.22   Notice; first-class mail
   
70.23   Duty to appear or mail penalty after notice
   
70.24   Failure to appear or pay penalty
   
70.25   Money collected
   
70.26   Duties of Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk
   
70.99   Penalty
TITLE; DEFINITIONS
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   Title VII may be known and cited as the Traffic Code of Hagerstown.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 64)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
      (1)   The following vehicles:
         (a)   Fire Department vehicles;
         (b)   Police Department vehicles;
         (c)   Ambulances; and
         (d)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8.
      (2)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the Indiana Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1.
      (3)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
Indiana Emergency Medical Services Commission that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies, or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (4)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
(I.C. 9-13-2-14)
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. Main Street from Elm Street to Washington Street
and all intersecting streets for one block north and south of Main Street
between Elm and Washington Streets.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of a sidewalk at intersections,
and also any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossings
by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles,
or the area in which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled. The term does not include a
farm tractor, an implement of agriculture designed to be operated primarily in
a farm field or on farm premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot
scooter, or an electric personal assistive mobility device.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop or
proceed.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this traffic code, placed or erected by authority of a
public body or officials having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating or
guiding traffic.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or
unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, used for
vehicular traffic by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any momentary stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not
occupied, attended or not attended, not to exceed ten minutes in duration.
   STOP. Complete cessation of movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. Any stopping of a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police
officer or traffic officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part is open to the use of the public as a
matter of right for purposes of vehicular traffic, and shall include roads,
avenues, alleys, and parkways within the town.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for purposes of
travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, §§ 1–10) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942; Am. Ord. 4-1974,
passed 8-19-1974; Am. Ord. 2-1985, passed 3-18-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicles - words and phrases defined, see I.C. 9-13-2-1 et seq.
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.05 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   Officers are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in conformance with
traffic laws, provided that, in the event of a fire or emergency or to expedite
traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police or Fire Departments
may direct traffic as conditions require, notwithstanding the provisions of the
traffic laws.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 55) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942 Am. Ord. 1-1985, passed
2-4-1985) Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of traffic by police officers, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 70.06 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden, or to fail to perform
any act required, in this traffic code.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 11) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 12) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.08 PUSHCARTS; RIDING ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon a
roadway, and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to
the provisions of this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle,
except those provisions which, by their very nature, can have no application.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 15) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.09 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this state,
county, or town, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this traffic
code or by state statute, or laws of the United States.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 13) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.10 EXEMPTIONS TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the operation, parking,
and standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, except
as follows.
   (B)   A driver, when operating the vehicle in an emergency, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand notwithstanding the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (C)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of the
vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 14) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of standing or parking of vehicles, see I.C. 9-21-16-1 et seq.
§ 70.11 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION FEE.
   The Police Department is authorized to assess a $5 fee for checking vehicle
identification numbers as allowed by I.C. 9-29-4 et seq. The proceeds of the
inspection fee shall be deposited into the town's Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund from which proper appropriations may be made for law enforcement
purposes.
(Ord. 12-2013, passed 11- -2013)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device placed in accordance with the traffic ordinances of this
town, unless otherwise directed by a police officer and subject to the
exemption granted the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle in this
traffic code.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 16) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of traffic by traffic-control signals, see I.C. 9-21-3-1 et seq.
§ 70.16 SIGNS OR MARKS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign, and when authorized marks, buttons, or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
there, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the direction of these indications.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 17) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.17 PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon this street or portion
thereof except drivers of vehicles having business in, or whose residences are
within, the closed area, and then the driver shall exercise the greatest care
in driving on this street or portion thereof.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 18) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.18 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic signals
exhibiting the words “go,” “caution,” or “stop” or exhibiting different colored
lights successively one at a time, the following colors shall be used, and
these terms and lights shall indicate as follows.
   (B)   Colors.
      (1)   Green alone or “Go.”
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through
or turn right or left unless a sign prohibits the turn. However, vehicular
traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection at the time the signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Yellow alone or “Caution,” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk at the intersection, provided that if the stop cannot be
made in safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing this signal are advised that there is
insufficient time to cross a roadway and any pedestrian then starting to cross
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
      (3)   Red alone or “Stop.”
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at other such points as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain standing until green or
“go” is shown alone.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing this signal shall enter the roadway unless
he or she can do so safely and without interfering with vehicular traffic.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 19) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 70.99
VIOLATION PROCEDURE
§ 70.20 WARNING NOTICES.
   The police officers of this town may issue warning notices to the owners or
operators of motor vehicles. The notices shall be in writing on forms provided
therefor, and shall provide the recipients with notice and information as to
violations committed. These notices shall be made in duplicate and the Town
Marshal shall keep a record of all notices.
(Ord. 5-1985, passed 3-18-1985)
§ 70.21 NOTICE; SERVICE BY POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   When it shall appear to any police officer of the town, while acting
as an officer, that any provision of Chapter 72 has been violated by the owner
or operator of any vehicle or motor vehicle, the officer shall immediately
notify the owner or operator in writing of the violation.
   (B)   The notice shall be made in duplicate upon a standard form provided
for this purpose by the town, and shall show the specific violation charged
against the owner or operator, the date the violation was committed, the state
license number of the vehicle, and, if possible, the name and address of the
owner or operator. All notices shall be signed by the police officer by whom it
is issued.
   (C)   One copy of the notice shall be presented to the owner or the operator
of the vehicle if the owner or operator is present at the time the violation
has come to the attention of the officer; but if the owner or operator is not
present at the time, the officer shall post a copy of the notice in a
conspicuous place upon the vehicle, and this notice shall be deemed sufficient
and effective notice to the owner or operator of the violation or violations
noted thereon. The other copy of the notice shall be filed with the Clerk of
the Town Court.
(Ord. 5-1985, passed 3-18-1985)
§ 70.22 NOTICE; FIRST-CLASS MAIL.
   In the event a police officer is unable to make personal service of notice
upon the owner or operator, this fact shall appear on the complaint summons
filed with the Clerk of the Town Court who shall then mail a copy of notice to
the last known or usual address of the owner or operator by first-class United
States mail, and this constructive notice shall constitute sufficient and
effective notice to the owner or operator of the violation or violations.
(Ord. 5-1985, passed 3-18-1985)
§ 70.23 DUTY TO APPEAR OR MAIL PENALTY AFTER NOTICE.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a vehicle who has been notified shall, within
48 hours after receipt of this notice, present himself or herself, together
with the notice, at the office of the Town Court of the town; or the owner or
operator may, within this period of time, mail to the Ordinance Violations
Bureau Clerk the specified penalty for each violation.
   (B)   If personal appearance in response to the notice is made before the
Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk, the owner or operator may admit or deny the
violation or violations charged, and if admitted shall pay the Ordinance
Violations Bureau Clerk the specified penalty for each violation when provided
in the schedule of fines and costs established by the Judge of the Town Court,
and if denied shall appear in the Court at the time and place set for the
appearance in the notice or as amended by the Judge of the Court or Court
Clerk.
(Ord. 5-1985, passed 3-18-1985)
§ 70.24 FAILURE TO APPEAR OR PAY PENALTY.
   (A)   Upon the failure of any owner or operator to appear at the office of
the Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk, after having been notified as above
provided, within five days after having been so notified, or upon the failure
of any owner or operator to pay the specified penalty by mail, the person shall
be advised by first-class United States mail from the office of the Ordinance
Violations Bureau Clerk that he or she will be subject to prosecution for
failure to report or to pay the penalty. The Judge may forthwith issue a
summons or execute a complaint and warrant against the person in the Town
Court, alleging in the complaint that the person has not complied with the
provisions of Chapter 72 and in what respect the chapter has been violated. The
summons or complaint shall forthwith be mailed as provided, or the Town Marshal
shall serve the summons or warrant as instructed by the Court.
   (B)   Persons admitting violations and those found by the Court to be
violators shall be fined in an amount not exceeding the specified penalty and
court costs, and shall pay the same forthwith.
(Ord. 5-1985, passed 3-18-1985)
§ 70.25 MONEY COLLECTED.
   All fines and penalties collected by the Town Court for violations of town
ordinances and costs or charges by Indiana law that are payable to the town
shall be remitted to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. 5-1985, passed 3-18-1985)
§ 70.26 DUTIES OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU CLERK.
   (A)   Upon the payment of any fee or penalties, the Ordinance Violations
Bureau Clerk shall issue a receipt to the person paying the fee.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk to keep
a correct record showing the amounts paid, the date of payment, the name of the
owner or operator, and the violation for which the fee was paid, and records
required to be maintained by state law in regard to the same and the operation
of the Town Court.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt to the court and account for all the
fees assessed and collected by his or her office and shall pay them into the
General Fund of the town or as otherwise specified by state law.
(Ord. 5-1985, passed 3-18-1985)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted
of a violation of any provision of this traffic code shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $2,500.
(I.C. 36-1-3-8)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Speed Regulations
   
71.01   Speed limits
   
71.02   Traveling lower than speed limits
   
71.03   Proof of negligence
Turning Movements
   
71.10   U-turns
Right-of-Way
   
71.15   Emerging from alley, driveway, or building
Miscellaneous Driving Rules
   
71.25   Driving within sidewalk
   
71.26   Roller skating or riding toy vehicles
   
71.27   Limitations on backing
   
71.28   Drivers in a procession
   
71.29   Through streets
   
71.30   Blocking intersections or crosswalks
   
71.31   Notice of violation
   
71.99   Penalty
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   When no special hazard exists, the following speeds shall be lawful, but any
speed in excess of these limits shall be prima facie evidence that the speed is
not reasonable or prudent and is unlawful:
   (A)   Twenty miles per hour on South Washington Street between Factory
Street and the railroad;
   (B)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any business district within the town,
and on the remainder of South Washington Street and on all of South Perry
Street; and
   (C)   Twenty-five miles per hour on the following streets: Lexington Lane,
East Graceland Heights, West Graceland Heights, West Lane, and Wildwood Drive.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 38) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942; Am. Ord. 1-1985,
passed 2-4-1985; Am. Ord. 5-1992, passed 10-5-1992) Penalty, see § 71.99
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of prima facie speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-3 and I.C. 9-21-5-6
§ 71.02 TRAVELING LOWER THAN SPEED LIMITS.
   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing limits
shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when special
hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of
weather or highway conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary
to avoid colliding with other persons, vehicles, or other conveyances on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 38) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03 PROOF OF NEGLIGENCE.
   Sections 71.01 and 71.02 shall not be construed to relieve a plaintiff in
any civil action from the burden of proving negligence upon the part of the
defendant as the proximate cause of an accident.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 38) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 71.10 U-TURNS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction on any street in a business district, and shall not so turn
upon any other street unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 31) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 71.99
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation of turns, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.15 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway and, upon entering the roadway,
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 33) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 71.99
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
§ 71.25 DRIVING WITHIN SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 34) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.26 ROLLER SKATING OR RIDING TOY VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person upon roller skates, skate boards, or riding in or by means
of any coaster, play vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any sidewalk
within the central business district, or upon any roadway except while crossing
a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets specified as play streets.
   (B)   A child under the age of ten years while in the company of an adult
would not be considered in violation of this section.
   (C)   Central business district: Main Street from Elm Street to Washington
Street and all intersecting streets for one block north and south of Main
Street between Elm and Washington Streets.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 37) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942; Am. Ord. 4-1992,
passed 8-3-1992)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.27 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back it into an intersection or over a
crosswalk nor back a vehicle unless the movement can be made in safety.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 32) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.28 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as is practical and follow the vehicle ahead as
close as is practical and safe.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 30) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.29 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets are through streets: Perry Street and Washington
Street.
   (B)   When stop signs are erected upon a highway intersecting a through
street at the entrance thereto or at the entrance to any intersection, every
driver of a vehicle shall stop at the sign or at a clearly marked stop line
before entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police
officer or traffic-control signal.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 27) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 71.99
Statutory reference:
   Stopping at through highways, see I.C. 9-21-8-32
§ 71.30 BLOCKING INTERSECTIONS OR CROSSWALKS.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 28) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 71.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulating vehicles at intersections, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 71.31 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Town Marshal may issue a notice of violation of this chapter to any
person who does any act forbidden by this section and a copy of the notice
shall be issued to the parent or guardian of the person if under 18 years of
age.
(Ord. 4-1992, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Every person found in violation of any provision of §
71.26 shall be fined in an amount of not less than $25 for each and every
violation thereof as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. The first
violation by any person of §
71.26 within a calendar year may be admitted and a civil penalty of $25 paid as
provided in
Chapter 38 of this code of ordinances which hereby is amended to include such
in §
38.04 of that chapter.
(Ord. 4-1992, passed 8-3-1992)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
Section
General Regulations
   
72.01   Signs at hazardous or congested places
   
72.02   Signs adjacent to school property or other designated places
   
72.03   Stopping, standing, or parking on streets or alleys
   
72.04   Parallel standing or parking
   
72.05   Standing or parking to display, wash, or repair vehicles
   
72.06   Areas where stopping, standing, or parking prohibited
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 72.01 SIGNS AT HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When signs are erected upon approach to hazardous or congested places, no
vehicle owner or operator shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in the
designated place.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 20) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942; Am. Ord. 6-1985,
passed 4-1-1985)
Penalty, see § 72.99
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation of stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, see I.C. 9-
21-1-3
§ 72.02 SIGNS ADJACENT TO SCHOOL PROPERTY OR OTHER DESIGNATED PLACES.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, doctor’s office, or like area, no vehicle
owner or operator shall park a vehicle or stand in the designated place.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 21) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942; Am. Ord. 6-1985,
passed 4-1-1985)
§ 72.03 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING ON STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   No vehicle owner or operator shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle upon a
street or alley, in a manner or under conditions as to leave available less
than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations,
or traffic signs or signals, or a police officer.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 22) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942; Am. Ord. 6-1985,
passed 4-1-1985)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.04 PARALLEL STANDING OR PARKING.
   (A)   Upon those streets which have been marked or signed for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at an angle to the curb indicated by these marks or
signs.
   (B)   In places where and at hours when stopping for the loading of
merchandise or materials is permitted, vehicles used for the transportation of
merchandise or materials may back into the curb to take or discharge loads.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 24) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942; Am. Ord. 6-1985,
passed 4-1-1985)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 STANDING OR PARKING TO DISPLAY, WASH, OR REPAIR VEHICLES.
   No vehicle owner or operator shall stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway
for the principal purpose of displaying it for sale or for washing, greasing,
or repairing the vehicle for hire, except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 25) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942; Am. Ord. 6-1985,
passed 4-1-1985)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 AREAS WHERE STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   These parking practices shall be prohibited:
      (1)   Overtime parking;
      (2)   Left-side parking, except where authorized;
      (3)   Parking within fire lanes;
      (4)   Alleys; and
      (5)   Driveways.
   (B)   No vehicle owner or operator shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of
the following places:
      (1)   Within 30 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection constituting a
passenger bus stop on regularly operated bus routes within the town;
      (2)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      (3)   Within 15 feet of a U.S. Postal Service mail box;
      (4)   Parking in a restricted zone prohibited by yellow curbing; and/or
      (5)   Within a designated handicap parking area, without displaying a
state-issued handicap placard.
   (C)   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by him or her into any of
these prohibited areas.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 26) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942; Am. Ord. 6-1985,
passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. 3-2019, passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Stop signs, see I.C. 9-21-4-11
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following penalty schedule:
      (1)   Parking in a handicap parking restricted zone - $50;
      (2)   Parking within a fire lane - $50;
      (3)   Parking, standing, or stopping in violation of this chapter of the
Traffic Code other than enumerated above - $25.
   (B)   Parking, stopping, or standing in violation of this traffic code other
than enumerated above - $32.
(Ord. 6-1985, passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. 1-2014, passed 4- -2014)
CHAPTER 73: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
73.01   Subject to traffic-control signs
§ 73.01 SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals declared in §
70.18, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and
shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(1963 Code, Ch. 11, § 52) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control devices, see I.C. 9-21-17-1
CHAPTER 74: BICYCLES
Section
   
74.01   Effect of regulations
   
74.02   Inspection of bicycles
   
74.03   Rental agencies
   
74.04   Bicycle dealers
   
74.05   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
74.06   Speed
   
74.07   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
74.08   Parking
   
74.09   Riding on sidewalks
   
74.10   Notice of violation
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is an infraction for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of these
provisions.
   (C)   These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any
highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles subject to
those exceptions stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 4-1974, passed 8-19-1974; Am. Ord. 3-1985, passed 3-18-1985)
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.02 INSPECTION OF BICYCLES.
   The Marshal, or an officer assigned the responsibility, may inspect any
bicycle.
(Ord. 4-1974, passed 8-19-1974)
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.03 RENTAL AGENCIES.
   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any bicycle for rent unless the
bicycle is equipped with the lamps and other equipment required in this
chapter.
(Ord. 4-1974, passed 8-19-1974)
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.04 BICYCLE DEALERS.
   Every person engaged in the business of buying or selling new or secondhand
bicycles shall make a report to the Marshal of every bicycle purchased or sold,
giving the name and address of the person from whom purchased or to whom sold,
a description of the bicycle by name or make, and the frame number, if any.
(Ord. 4-1974, passed 8-19-1974)
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.05 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of
the sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to make any turn,
in which event the person shall then obey the regulations applicable to
pedestrians.
(Ord. 4-1974, passed 8-19-1974; Am. Ord. 1-1985, passed 2-4-1985)
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.06 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is prudent under
the conditions then existing.
(Ord. 4-1974, passed 8-19-1974)
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.07 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
shall upon approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Ord. 4-1974, passed 8-19-1974)
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.08 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or
against a building or at a curb, in a manner causing the least obstruction to
pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 4-1974, passed 8-19-1974)
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.09 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within the Central
Business District.
   (B)   The Town Council is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk in any
district, and when the signs are in place, no person shall disobey them.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, that person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing a pedestrian.
(Ord. 4-1974, passed 8-19-1974)
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.10 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Marshal may issue a notice of violation of this chapter to any person
who does any act forbidden or fails to perform any act required by this chapter
and a copy of the notice shall be issued to the parent or guardian of the
person if under 18 years of age, providing for a time and place for inspection
thereafter by the Town Marshal of any bicycle owned, operated, or in possession
or control of the person or the parent or guardian of the person.
(Ord. 4-1974, passed 8-19-1974)
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $25, or by impounding of the person's
bicycle for a period not to exceed ten days or by any combination thereof.
(Ord. 4-1974, passed 8-19-1974)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No-parking zones
   
II.   Limited parking zones
   
III.   Elimination of angle parking
   
IV.   Restriction of miscellaneous vehicle parking
   
V.   Penalty
SCHEDULE I. NO-PARKING ZONES.
 
Description
West side of North Plum Street between Main Street and College Street.
West side of South Plum Street between Main Street and Walnut Street.
 
(Ord. 7-1985, passed 4-1-1985)
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
 
Description
Washington Street from Clay Street south to the Pennsylvania Railroad Crossing,
except the west side of Washington Street from Factory Street south to the
Pennsylvania Railroad crossing, which exempted area shall be closed to all
parking.
West side of Perry Street when signs are erected giving notice thereof, parking
shall be limited to Sundays and each legal holiday as follows: January l (New
Year’s Day); Memorial Day; Fourth of July; Labor Day; Veterans’ Day;
Thanksgiving Day; and Christmas Day.
First block of South Perry Street, east side, at least 30 feet north of the
alley.
First block of South Perry Street on west side, at least 15 feet north of the
alley.
 
(Ord. 7-1985, passed 4-1-1985)
SCHEDULE III. ELIMINATION OF ANGLE PARKING.
 
Description
Angle parking is prohibited upon any and all public streets and thoroughfares
within the corporate limits of the Town of Hagerstown, Indiana.
 
(Ord. 7-1985, passed 4-1-1985)
SCHEDULE IV. RESTRICTION OF MISCELLANEOUS VEHICLE PARKING.
   (A)   No vehicle of any type, regardless of whether the same is defined
specifically herein, shall be stopped or parked on any street, alley, roadway,
or highway in the town in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave
available less than 15 feet of width of the street for free movement of
vehicular traffic. No such vehicle shall be stopped or parked within the
traveled portion of any street, alley, roadway, or highway in the town. Any
such vehicle so stopped or parked may be removed by the proper authority,
including the Police Department or the Fire Department, in the discretion and
judgment of a properly authorized officer of any such authority if that stopped
or parked vehicle constitutes an immediate hazard by way of its placement. The
owner of any such vehicle shall be promptly notified of its removal, the method
of removal, and the location thereof. The owner of the vehicle shall be
responsible for any towing, removal, storage, or other charges and fees
associated with the removal unless such removal is required by an emergency of
which the owner had no knowledge in which case the town shall be responsible
for any such fees or charges. The town, its officers, agents, departments, and
employees shall not incur any civil liability for damages incurred as a result
of any such removal. Any such removal shall not relieve the owner from
liability for any fine due to the placement of said vehicle prior to its
removal.
   (B)   For the purposes of this Schedule the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DETACHED TRAILER. Any vehicle designed for transportation by being pulled
or towed by a wide vehicle, as defined herein, being more than eight feet wide
and more than 35 feet in length, designed to move on the highway.
      RECREATION VEHICLE. As defined in § 151.100 of the Zoning and Subdivision
Control Code, including pickup coach, fifth-wheel coach, motor home, and
camping trailer, excepting therefrom a travel trailer.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. As defined in § 151.100 of the Zoning and Subdivision
Control Code.
      WIDE VEHICLE. Any vehicle with an overall width in excess of 88 inches,
including semi-trucks and/or semitractors.
   (C)   Detached trailers. No such defined vehicle shall be parked at any time
on any street, alley, roadway, or highway in the town, except for the immediate
loading or unloading of the vehicle. All such vehicles shall not be left
unattended. Any such vehicle that is parked on private property shall be parked
on a hard concrete or asphalt surface of uniform nature that has a depth of
eight inches or more and that encompasses the entire length and width of the
vehicle. Parking of any such vehicle on any grass or surface composed of any
other plant material is prohibited.
   (D)   Recreation vehicles. No such defined vehicle shall be parked at any
time on any street, alley, roadway, or highway in the town, for more than 72
continuous hours. All such vehicles shall not be left unattended. Any such
vehicle that is parked on private property shall be parked on a hard concrete
or asphalt surface of uniform nature that has a depth of eight inches or more
and that encompasses the entire length and width of the vehicle. Parking of any
such vehicle on any grass or surface composed of any other plant material is
prohibited.
   (E)   Travel trailers. No such defined vehicle shall be parked at any time
on any street, alley, roadway, or highway in the town, for more than 72
continuous hours. All such vehicles shall not be left unattended. Any such
vehicle that is parked on private property shall be parked on a hard concrete
or asphalt surface of uniform nature that has a depth of eight inches or more
and that encompasses the entire length and width of the vehicle. Parking of any
such vehicle on any grass or surface composed of any other plant material is
prohibited.
   (F)   Wide vehicles. No vehicle with an overall width in excess of 88 inches
shall be parked at any time on any street, alley, roadway, or highway in the
town, except for the immediate loading or unloading of the vehicle or when
disabled such that it requires some vehicle or facility other than its own
means of motivation to move the same. All such vehicles shall not be left
unattended. Any such vehicle that is parked on private property shall be parked
on a hard concrete or asphalt surface of uniform nature that has a depth of
eight inches or more and that encompasses the entire length and width of the
vehicle. Parking of any such vehicle on any grass or surface composed of any
other plant material is prohibited.
   (G)   The owner, operator, lessor, or possessor of the trailer or wide
vehicle shall be liable for violation of this section and subject to the
penalties set forth in
Schedule V below.
(Ord. 7-2019, passed 11-4-2019)
SCHEDULE V. PENALTY.
   A person who violates this chapter commits a Class C Infraction, as provided
by I.C. 9-21-1-3, as that section is amended from time to time. An owner,
lessee or operator may be cited to appear in a court of competent jurisdiction
by issuance of an Indiana Uniform Traffic Ticket. Upon a finding by such court
that an owner, lessee or operator of a golf cart has violated any provision of
the chapter, the person shall be subject to the following fines, which fines
shall be deposited in the general fund of the town, in addition to court costs:
   (A)   For a first-time violation: $100;
   (B)   For a second-time violation: $250;
   (C)   For a third-time violation and for any subsequent violation
thereafter: $500.
(Ord. 7-2019, passed 11-4-2019)
CHAPTER 76: ATVS; RECREATIONAL OFF-ROAD VEHICLES; GOLF CARTS
Section
   
76.01   General provisions
   
76.02   Registration required
   
76.03   Operation by minors
   
76.04   Driver license required
   
76.05   Insurance required
   
76.06   Occupants
   
76.07   Crossing highways
   
76.08   Required equipment
   
76.09   Manner and place of operation
   
76.10   Enforcement
   76.11   Severability
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Subject to the regulations contained within this chapter, and all other
applicable state and local laws, all-terrain vehicles (as defined by I.C. 14-8-
2-5.7), recreational off-road vehicles (as defined by I.C. 14-8-2-233.5, but
excluding therefrom snowmobiles throughout this chapter), and golf carts (as
defined by I.C. 9-13-2-69.7) are hereby permitted to operate on the roads that
are under the jurisdiction of the town. This chapter does not apply to roads
and highways within the state highway system or those roads and highways
outside of the corporation boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 76.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Owners of the vehicles described herein and regulated hereby shall register
the all-terrain vehicle or recreational off-road vehicle in compliance with
I.C. 9-18.1-14-1 et seq. (and as those sections may be amended from time to
time).
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 76.03 OPERATION BY MINORS.
   A person under the age of 18 years old shall comply with I.C. 9-18.1-14-11
(Youth Helmet Law) while riding or operating an all-terrain vehicle or
recreational off-road vehicle.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 76.04 DRIVER LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person who operates an all-terrain vehicle, recreational off-road
vehicle, or golf cart upon the roads that are under the jurisdiction of the
town shall possess a valid Indiana driver license.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 76.05 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   An operator of an all-terrain vehicle, recreational off-road vehicle, or
golf cart shall have evidence of in place and valid liability insurance issued
by an insurance underwriter authorized to issue insurance in the state of
Indiana in an amount equal to or greater than the insurance requirements set
forth in I.C. 9-25-4-5 whenever the all-terrain vehicle, recreational off-road
vehicle, or golf cart is operated upon the roads and highways under the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 76.06 OCCUPANTS.
   No passengers are permitted on single-seat all-terrain vehicles or
recreational off-road vehicles. The number of passengers permitted at any time
to simultaneously occupy an all-terrain vehicle, recreational off-road vehicle,
or golf cart is limited to the number of manufacturer-installed passenger seats
on the vehicle.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 76.07 CROSSING HIGHWAYS.
   An operator of an all-terrain vehicle, recreational off-road vehicle, or
golf cart is permitted to cross a highway in the state highway system, at right
angles, in order to travel from one highway under the jurisdiction of the
county to another highway under the jurisdiction of the county when the
operation can be done safely.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 76.08 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   An all-terrain vehicle, recreational off-road vehicle, or golf cart may not
be operated between sunset and sunrise without at least two operable headlights
and two operable taillights, unless the same is manufactured with only one such
headlight or taillight, in which case, the same may also be so operated. All
golf carts must display, at the rear of the vehicle, a slow-moving vehicle
emblem as described in I.C. 9-21-9-3, or a red or amber flashing lamp as
described in I.C. 9-21-9-4 (and as those sections may be amended from time to
time).
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 76.09 MANNER AND PLACE OF OPERATION.
   All-terrain vehicles, recreational off-road vehicles, and golf cart must
travel in single file when operated upon road and highways under the
jurisdiction of the town. All-terrain vehicles, recreational off-road vehicles,
and golf cart shall not be operated on sidewalks.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 76.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any law enforcement agency, including but not limited to: the Wayne County
Sheriff’s Department, the Indiana State Police, Indiana Conservation officers,
Wayne County municipal police officers, and Town of Hagerstown police officers
may enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 76.11 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision of this chapter be declared, by a court of
jurisdiction, to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity or
impair the enforcement of the remaining provisions of this chapter, or any
portion thereof.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for a violation of this chapter are fines up to but not
exceeding the following amounts:
      (1)   Violation of first offense shall be $100.
      (2)   Violation of second and subsequent offenses shall be $250.
   (B)   Three or more violations of this chapter by a single operator
occurring within a 12-month period shall constitute grounds for the withdrawal
of the registrations of any vehicles covered by this chapter owned by that
operator, subject to the owner’s right to appeal such registration withdrawal
to the Town Council.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 2-6-2023)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   CEMETERIES
   
92.   GARBAGE, RUBBISH, ASHES, AND FILTH
   
93.   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
   
94.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND ALLEYS
   
95.   PERSONAL PROPERTY SALES
   
96.   HAGERSTOWN AIRPORT
   
97.   FAIR HOUSING
   
98.   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
   
99.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Livestock running at large
   
90.02   Keeping of livestock
   
90.03   Slaughtering of domestic animals
Control of Dogs
   
90.10   License and tag
   
90.11   Vaccination certificate
   
90.12   Records
   
90.13   Running at large
   
90.14   Impounding authorized
   
90.15   Confinement of unlicensed, vicious, or stray dogs
   
90.16   Redemption of impounded dogs
   
90.17   Destruction or removal of unredeemed dogs
   
90.18   Resisting or obstructing enforcement
   
90.19   Removal or destruction of vicious dogs
   
90.20   Removal or change of license tags
   
90.21   Quarantine of biting dogs
   
90.22   Dogs that habitually bark, yelp, or howl
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No cattle, horses, mules, swine, goats, sheep, or other livestock
shall be permitted to run at large within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   No person owning or having the control of any animal or animals shall
permit them to run at large within the corporate limits of the town.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 13) (Ord. 17-1878, passed 4-15-1878; Am. Ord. 40-1878,
passed 4-15-1878; Am. Ord. 48-1882, passed 5-8-1882)
Penalty, see § 90.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of town boards to control animals, see I.C. 36-8-2-6
§ 90.02 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, cause, or permit to be
kept, or to confine one or more horses, mules, swine, goats, sheep, or other
livestock within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   However, nothing in this section shall be construed as regulating or
prohibiting the keeping or confinement of dogs or cats; nor the temporary
keeping or confinement of domestic animals by a slaughterhouse, lawfully
operated, and meeting the requirements specified by state law and as
established by rules and regulations of the Indiana State Board of Health.
   (C)   Each and every day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 14) (Ord. 1-1944, passed 1-3-1944; Am. Ord. 5-2013, passed
8-19-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 SLAUGHTERING OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to slaughter any domestic animal in the
open or to slaughter domestic animals in any building which does not meet the
requirements specified by state laws or by rules and regulations established by
the Indiana State Board of Health.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 15) (Ord. 1-1944, passed 1-3-1944; Am. Ord. 5-2013, passed
8-19-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
CONTROL OF DOGS
§ 90.10 LICENSE AND TAG.
   (A)   There is a license tax to be collected on or before March 15 each year
of $1 on each male or spayed female dog and $2 on each female dog owned and
kept within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The license tax shall be paid by the owner of the dog directly to the
Clerk-Treasurer on or before March 15 each year and the Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue proper receipts of the town for the payment, and he or she shall also
issue at that time an appropriate tag to be placed upon the dog and worn by it
at all times when upon streets, alleys, or public places in the town.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is charged with the procuring of suitable tags.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, §§ 1, 2) (Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.11 VACCINATION CERTIFICATE.
   No license tax shall be accepted, nor a receipt or tag be issued, until the
owner of the dog shall exhibit to the Clerk-Treasurer a certificate executed by
a duly licensed veterinarian showing that the dog has been vaccinated against
rabies within one year prior to the date of application for a license.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 2) (Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949))
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.12 RECORDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of the licenses whereby owner and
dog may be identified.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 2) (Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.13 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Dogs shall be kept under restraint, with restraint defined as under
the control of the owner or other competent person by means of a leash, or
confined in a pen, yard, cage, house, or other secure enclosure.
   (B)   If a dog be found in any alleys, streets, or other public places in
the town, not in custody or in charge of the owner or someone deputized by the
owner, it shall be impounded.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 3) (Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1944; Am. Ord. 1-2016, passed
1-18-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 IMPOUNDING AUTHORIZED.
   The town may establish a dog pound or use the facilities of any private or
public pound within Wayne County for the purpose of confining, keeping, and
caring for all dogs picked up or impounded under the provisions of this
chapter.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 4) (Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949; Am. Ord. 1-1958, passed
4-7-1958; Am. Ord. 2-1969, passed 3-17-1969)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.15 CONFINEMENT OF UNLICENSED, VICIOUS, OR STRAY DOGS.
   It shall be the duty of the Dog Warden, the Marshal, or Deputy Marshals to
seize and hold for impounding any unlicensed, vicious, or stray dog found in
any public place in the town or upon any premises other than those occupied or
owned by the owner of the dog, and the Dog Warden, the Marshal, or Deputy
Marshals shall make arrests for violating the provisions of this chapter.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 5) (Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949; Am. Ord. 2-1969, passed
3-17-1969)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.16 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   The owner or persons entitled to the custody of any impounded dog may redeem
the dog at any time before it has been disposed of as provided for in §
90.17, by:
   (A)   Paying to the Clerk-Treasurer the license fee for the current year and
furnishing evidence that the dog has been vaccinated against rabies as provided
for in §
90.21 if an unlicensed dog, and by paying to the Clerk-Treasurer an impounding
fee of $4 and a maintenance fee of not more than $.50 a day for each day during
which the dog may have been impounded in a town dog pound or by paying the
normal maintenance charge of any private or public pound to which the dog may
have been sent; or
   (B)   If a licensed dog, by the payment of the impounding and maintenance
fees.
(Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949; Am. Ord. 2-1969, passed 3-17-1969)
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 7)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.17 DESTRUCTION OR REMOVAL OF UNREDEEMED DOGS.
   If the dog is not redeemed within five days, it may be destroyed or
otherwise disposed of.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 7) (Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949; Am. Ord. 2-1969, passed
3-17-1969)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.18 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to resist or obstruct the Dog
Warden, the Marshal, or Deputy Marshals in the exercise of their respective
duties.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 8) (Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949; Am. Ord. 2-1969, passed
3-17-1969)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.19 REMOVAL OR DESTRUCTION OF VICIOUS DOGS.
   All vicious dogs shall, at the discretion of the Town Council, be destroyed
or removed from the limits of the town, and all dogs which have bitten any
person shall be deemed to be vicious and also subject to removal and
destruction.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 9) (Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.20 REMOVAL OR CHANGE OF LICENSE TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a license tag or plate from
any dog belonging to another, or to place on any dog another tag or plate other
than the tag or plate issued by the Clerk-Treasurer for the particular dog
licensed.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 10) (Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.21 QUARANTINE OF BITING DOGS.
   (A)   Any and all dogs which are known to have been exposed to or bitten by
a rabid dog shall be impounded for observation for a period of not less than
ten days.
   (B)   All fees and charges for the care and keeping of the dog or dogs shall
be paid before they are released, and if not paid within five days after the
owner has been notified to redeem them, the dog or dogs may be destroyed or
removed from the limits of the town at the discretion of the Town Council.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 11) (Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949; Am. Ord. 2-1969,
passed 3-17-1969)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.22 DOGS THAT HABITUALLY BARK, YELP, OR HOWL.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog shall permit or allow the dog
to annoy or disturb one or more of the inhabitants of two or more separate
residences of this town by the frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking,
or making of any other such noises by the dog within the corporate limits.
   (B)   Any dog that violates division (A) of this section is declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 4-1949, passed 10-3-1949; Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   General authority over cemetery
   
91.03   Fees and charges
   
91.04   Maintenance
   
91.05   Visitation
   
91.06   Construction
   
91.07   Administrative record-keeping
   
91.08   Modifications of rules and regulations
   
91.09   K9 officers
   
91.10   Monies
   
91.11   Gifts
   
91.12   Rules and regulations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CEMETERY. The grounds used to inter human remains commonly known as West
Lawn Cemetery located in Hagerstown, Indiana.
   CEMETERY CLERK. The person designated by the Town Council to act on the Town
Council's behalf with authority in the administration of rules, regulations,
and other matters provided for in this chapter in the operation, enforcement,
and collection of charges.
   CEMETERY OFFICE. The main office maintained by the town, commonly referred
to as Town Hall.
   FOUNDATION. The base constructed for the purpose of supporting a memorial,
monument, or marker placed upon the base. A memorial flush with surface of the
ground.
   HUMAN REMAINS. The body of a deceased person, in whole or in parts,
regardless of its stage of decomposition. For purposes of this chapter, the
term HUMAN REMAINS shall also include the body of a K9 officer (eligible for
burial in K-9 officer burial area identified in § 91.09), in whole or in parts,
regardless of its stage of decomposition.
   INTERMENT. The permanent disposition of the remains of human remains,
including a deceased person or K9 officer by burial, entombment, or cremation
and inurnment.
   LAND DIVISIONS. Shall be comprised of the following:
      (1)   DEED. A written instrument issued to reflect ownership of a space
or multiple spaces within a lot of the cemetery.
      (2)   LOT. A numerically-designated parcel of land within a section, with
a lot being comprised of eight spaces in the old section of the cemetery and
four spaces in the new sections of the cemetery.
      (3)   SECTION. A numerically-designated parcel of land containing lots
and spaces.
      (4)   SPACE. A numerically-designated parcel of land within a lot wherein
norn1ally one human remains is or may be intered, commonly called a grave.
   LOT MARKER. A marking device placed in the ground to identify and locate the
corners of a lot.
   MARGIN. Areas of the foundation not covered by a memorial, monument, or
marker.
   MEMORIAL. A monument, marker, tablet, headstone, mausoleum, or tomb for
family or individual use and common funerary items such as urns and niches.
   MONUMENT. A stone of granite, marble, alloyed metal, or other non-manmade
material that extends above the surface of the ground. Monuments in excess of
48 inches tall are prohibited subject to written request for the same to be
approved by the Town Council or, in its absence, the Town Manager with said
approval to be wholly discretionary.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.02 GENERAL AUTHORITY OVER CEMETERY.
   (A)   The Town Council shall be the designated authority over the cemetery.
The Town Council designates the Cemetery Clerk, or in his or her absence, the
Town Manager, to act on behalf of the Town Council as the authority in the
administration of rules, regulations, and other matters provided for in this
chapter in the operation, enforcement, and collection of charges.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have the authority to adopt additional rules
and regulations and/or to amend or repeal any section of this chapter, and to
provide for the management, control, direction, care, and maintenance of the
property, funds, and affairs of the cemetery, provided that the rules and
regulations are not in conflict with Indiana law.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.03 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A) Administrative fees. The following fees and charges shall apply:
      (1)   There shall be a $100 standard records and administrative fee for
all grave openings for human remains, including standard grave openings, infant
grave openings, and cremains grave openings. This fee shall be paid to the town
prior to the occurrence of any and all grave opening.
      (2)   The Cemetery Clerk, or in his or her absence the Town Manager,
shall have discretion, as is generally set forth in §
91.02(A), in assessing 0% to 100% of the nonnal fee when the human remains to
be interred are those of an indigent person at the time of death or of an
indigent family member of a person who remains are to be interred. In utilizing
this discretion, the Cemetery Clerk shall consider whether the person has some
other inability to make full payment of the $100 standard records and
administrative fee, with said discretion to be predicated upon reasonable
documentation of a person's inability to satisfy the standard records and
administrative fee. The following parameters shall be used by the Cemetery
Clerk to detennine indigency:
         (a)   Whether there exists an estate for the decedent opened in a
court oflaw;
         (b)   The cash account values of the person requesting the waiver of
the fee;
         (c)   The employment status of the person requesting the waiver of the
fee; and
         (d)   Any and all other matters the Cemetery Clerk deems of value in
making such a decision.
      (3)   There shall be a standard deed transfer fee of $35 for any
requested transfer of a deed for a single space between owners and a standard
deed transfer fee of $50 for any requested transfer of two or more deeds for
spaces within the same lot between owners.
   (B)   Space purchase. The cost of a single burial space shall be $450.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.04 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Responsibility.
      (1)   The Town Manager, with the monetary authority approved by the Town
Council and the administrative assistance provided by the Cemetery Clerk, shall
assist in advising, scheduling, and generally providing for the maintaining
buildings and grounds in a workmanlike manner in regard to planting, mowing,
weeding, upkeep of buildings, fences, roadways, signage and removal of debris
to include flowers, floral designs, weeds, trees, shrubs, plants, or other
herbage.
      (2)   Maintenance of private memorials, markers, monuments, and plantings
in regard to cleaning, repairing, resetting, and care of the private plantings
shall not be a responsibility of the Cemetery Clerk or any town employee or
representative. The maintenance of such items shall be the responsibility of
private interest persons, and if not maintained in a reasonable manner, as
adjudged by the Cemetery Clerk and the Town Council, may be removed by the
Cemetery Clerk at his or her discretion.
   (B)   Plants and other decoration.
      (1)   Individual beds of mulch, shrubbery, flowers, or plants shall not
be placed upon the grounds, and no spraying shall be allowed.
      (2)   The installation of curbing, fencing, hedging border, walls, wood
boxes, cans, glass containers of any kind, candles, stone edging, or enclosures
of any kind around a burial lot or grave space is prohibited.
      (3)   No plants or other decorations, including cut flowers or other
floral or decorative designs, shall be placed on the ground around a burial lot
or space. American flags are permitted.
      (4)   The Cemetery Clerk reserves the right to have removed materials
placed upon the headstone or the grave site that in its opinion do not conform
to good order, poses a hazard to others, or creates maintenance difficulties.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.05 VISITATION.
   (A)   Vehicular traffic.
      (1)   The cemetery shall be closed to all vehicular traffic from sunset
to sunrise unless written permission is granted by the Cemetery Clerk.
      (2)   Vehicles shall remain upon the paved roadways at all times, with
the exception of construction and/or other vehicles and equipment relative to
the interment.
      (3)   Vehicles shall not travel at a greater speed than is reasonable and
prudent and shall be kept under complete control at all times. In any event,
vehicles shall not exceed ten mph.
      (4)   Funeral processions shall have the right-of-way over individual
vehicular traffic and individual traffic shall yield to the funeral
processions.
      (5)   Vehicle horns shall not be sounded in the cemetery nor shall other
excessive vehicle noise be permitted.
      (6)   Parked motor vehicles shall not be left unattended with their
engines running.
   (B)   Pedestrian traffic.
      (1)   The cemetery shall be closed to all pedestrian traffic from sunset
to sunrise unless written permission is granted by the Cemetery Clerk.
      (2)   Animals, unless a part of an organized funeral ceremony, utilized
as a primary means of personal transportation, or assisting a person due to a
disability, are prohibited from being brought upon the cemetery grounds.
      (3)   Persons entering the cemetery shall remain upon its paved roadways
and shall be permitted to walk upon or across lots only to access a specific
grave site.
      (4)   Persons within the cemetery grounds shall adhere to and reflect
reasonable proprieties expected in a cemetery environment as follows:
         (a)   No loud or boisterous talking or behavior;
         (b)   No consuming of food or other refreshments;
         (c)   No solicitation for sales of any commodity;
         (d)   No placing of notices or advertisements; and
         (e)   No littering.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.06 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Grave location. Upon notification by the owner or mortician of a
proposed interment, the Cemetery Clerk, or his or her designee, shall perform
the following:
      (1)   Ascertain that there are no outstanding fees due on the plot in
question from prior interments or headstone foundations. No subsequent burials
shall be authorized if unpaid charges remain. All fees and costs are due and
payable before the burial process may begin;
      (2)   Ascertain the proper location and availability or the grave site by
section, lot, and space;
      (3)   Transact the sale of the grave site if applicable, providing the
purchaser with a deed to the property upon payment;
      (4)   Cause the grave site in question to be identified within the
cemetery grounds and clearly mark same for grave opening;
      (5)   Arrange for the grave to be opened in a timely manner;
      (6)   Coordinate the timing, site location, and other pertinent issue
with the attending mortician; and
      (7)   Sign all internment certificates.
   (B)   Headstone foundations administration. Upon notification by the owner
or mortician of a requested placement of a headstone and/or the need for a
foundation, the Cemetery Clerk, or his or her designee, shall perform the
following:
      (1)   Ascertain that there are no outstanding fees due on the plot in
question from prior interments or headstone foundations. No subsequent burials
shall be authorized if unpaid charges remain. All fees and costs are due and
payable before the burial process may begin;
      (2)   Require the owner to fill out any informational type form that the
town may require to proceed with the construction of a headstone foundation,
and to pay the deposit required as provided in §
91.03.
   (C)   Headstone foundation construction. The contractor designated by said
owner or mortician shall perform the following:
      (1)   Provide the actual cost of construction to the owner both prior to
and subsequent to the foundation construction; and
      (2)   Construction of a foundation shall be within the following
specifications.
         (a)   All support foundations shall be placed parallel with the
established west lot line and centered north and south within the four feet by
eight feet lot space at the west end of each lot of Sections 1-11 and four feet
by 11 feet lot space at the west end of each lot of Sections 12-17. Each
foundation shall be in a uniform line with existing monuments and be flush with
surrounding grade elevations.
         (b)   All permanent foundations shall be of sufficient size and depth
to support the proposed headstone. A minimum depth of 36 inches reflecting a
five-inch flare in each direction on the bottom with an eight-inch minimum
foundation margin around the stone shall be maintained. Greater depths and
wider margins may be necessary for large headstones or markers. The Cemetery
Clerk, or his or her designee, shall make the final decision in all
construction matters regarding sizing and depth of foundations. All permanent
foundations shall be completed by the contractor.
         (c)   Temporary foundations reflecting a four-inch depth may be
constructed if a second person will be interred utilizing the same stone. The
construction of the temporary headstone shall be conducted by the contractor;
however, upon the second interment, a standard foundation will be required as
specified above, with the owner being responsible for the cost of removing the
temporary headstone and constructing a permanent foundation.
         (d)   Contractors shall ensure that concrete used to form the
foundation shall meet or exceed 3,000-pound test.
         (e)   Although construction of the finished foundations shall be at
the town's direction, the contractor shall permit finished foundations to be
inspected by the Cemetery Clerk, or his or her designee, prior to the setting
of a headstone for compliance with this section. The Cemetery Clerk may order
the foundation removed if found not to be in compliance with the foregoing
specifications. Forms and other tools or equipment shall be removed from the
site within 36 hours of constructing the foundation.
   (D)   Construction setbacks. All mausoleums, crypts, tombs, or other above
ground interment facilities requiring multiple lots shall occupy a maximum of
50% of the available area and be centered upon the lot area.
   (E)   Military or other plaques.
      (1)   Plaques of whatever type shall be attached to the headstone if the
headstone is currently used as a monument on the grave site.
      (2)   If no monument is on the grave site, the plaque may be attached to
a beveled plaque stone which shall elevate the plaque to a minimum of five
inches above the surrounding ground elevation. The foundation for the stone
shall reflect the specification of depth and flare as stated above. However, a
minimum foundation margin of four inches around the plaque stone shall be
maintained.
      (3)   In any case where there already exists a military plaque or other
marker as a footstone, said shall be permitted to remain so long as it remains
in a good and undamaged condition. No replacement footstones shall be
permitted. No new footstones shall be permitted.
   (F)   Use of an outer burial container required. With the exception of
cremains, an outer burial container of sufficient design to prevent
unreasonable settling of the earth over the container shall be required.
   (G)   Construction.
      (1)   A space shall not be used for any other purpose than a place of
burial of human remains, and only one person may be buried in any one space,
subject to that which is set forth in divisions (2) through (4) below.
      (2)   With the approval of the space owner, up to two cremated human
remains may also be placed within any such space if other, non-cremated human
remains are buried therein; however, if the space has no other non-cremated
human remains buried therein, such space may be used for the burial of a total
of four cremated human remains. There shall not be permitted the burial of non-
cremated remains and more than two cremated remains in any one space.
      (3)   Any cremated remains buried within a space shall be placed in a
non-biodegradable box, urn, or other such container or, if no such container is
chosen, the biodegradable container utilized shall be encased in cement, and
thereafter, any type of container utilized, whether biodegradable or not, shall
be buried at a depth of not less than three feet, with said burial to be
verified by the Town Manager or his or her designee.
      (4)   The cremated remains may be placed under an un-set headstone if so
desired.
      (5)   The cost of the burial of cremated remains shall be the same as set
forth in §
91.03.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.07 ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD-KEEPING.
   (A)   Lot/space purchases.
      (1)   The Cemetery Clerk shall conduct, record, and maintain, in a manner
that will permit reasonable inspection, cemetery records related to all sales
of lots and persons interred within the cemetery.
      (2)   The Cemetery Clerk shall make interment location records public by
posting the records in a conspicuous place within the cemetery grounds in a
reasonably timely manner.
      (3)   The Cemetery Clerk shall issue a deed over the signature of the
Town Council President to persons purchasing a burial lot or lots as a
certificate of ownership. The Cemetery Clerk shall be under no obligation to
record the deed except in its own internal records.
   (B)   Requirements for morticians and fossors.
      (1)   Provide the Cemetery Clerk with timely notification of proposed
interments;
      (2)   Identify or have the family identify the proposed site of
internment;
      (3)   Provide the Cemetery Clerk with a death certificate attesting to
the identity of the person to be interred; and
      (4)   At the time of any interments, the mortician is responsible for
furnishing all necessary information on the deceased to the Cemetery Clerk in
order that proper recording of the burials may be made.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.08 MODIFICATIONS OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Council and the Cemetery Clerk recognize that special circumstances
and cases may arise in which the literal enforcement of a rule may impose
unnecessary hardship. The Cemetery Clerk therefore reserves the right to make
exceptions, suspensions, or modifications of any of these rules and
regulations, without notice, when, in the judgment of the Cemetery Clerk, the
action appears necessary. Any such temporary exception, suspension, or
modification shall in no way be construed as affecting the general application
of the rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.09 K9 OFFICERS.
   Section 18 of the Cemetery has been designated as an area for the remains of
K9 officers that have served the Town of Hagerstown. The location of said area
shall be identified by the Cemetery Clerk, or his or her designee, upon
request.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.10 MONIES.
   (A)   The collection, preservation, and payment of all monies, funds,
securities, obligations, and property of any kind related to cemetery purposes
is hereby reserved to the Town Council.
   (B)   Gifts, donations, and bequests, or devises of money or property, real
or personal, for the use of the cemetery or permanent maintenance fund of the
cemetery shall be in the name of the town and shall be subject to deposit,
investment, and appropriation by the Town Council. The Town Council or its
designee, including the Town Manager or the Cemetery Clerk, shall assist the
Clerk-Treasurer in preparing and submitting an annual budget to the Town
Council for its approval. The Cemetery Clerk shall also submit all lawful
claims for payment that he or she receives to the Clerk-Treasurer for
submission to the Town Council for approval and authorization of payment.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.11 GIFTS.
   Gifts to the town restricted to cemetery use shall be held in a special fund
subject to any specific restriction specified by the donor, and the fund shall
be designated as the West Lawn Cemetery Improvement Fund. Any gifts restricted
to perpetual maintenance of the cemetery shall be held in a fund designated as
the West Lawn Cemetery Perpetual Maintenance Fund. No gifts may be accepted for
maintenance of individual lots but only for the benefit of the entire cemetery.
The funds shall be established as are approved by the state.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.12 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall assist the Town Council or its designee,
including the Cemetery Clerk or the Town Manager in enforcing existing rules
and regulations governing the use of the cemetery and with respect to the use
of utilities in the cemetery.
   (B)   Burials shall not be permitted on Christmas Day, Easter, Memorial Day,
Fourth of July, Labor Day, and Thanksgiving. This prohibition may be stayed
upon written request to the Cemetery Clerk and subsequent, wholly discretionary
approval by the Town Council or, in its absence, the Town Manager.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. There is hereby established the following penalties for
violations by any person of any of the rules and regulations set forth in this
chapter. The Cemetery Clerk shall have authority over enforcement of the
penalties described herein and shall notify the town of enforcement actions.
Each repetition of the same act of violation on the same or any subsequent day
shall be an additional and separate violation for purposes of enforcement, for
which separate and additional penalties shall be imposed as provided herein.
   (B)   Maintenance violations.
      (1)   First violation: $50 plus reimbursement for authorities' expenses
plus court costs; and
      (2)   Second or subsequent violation: $100 plus reimbursement for
authorities' expenses plus court costs.
   (C)   Visitation violations.
      (1)   First violation: $50 plus reimbursement for authorities' expenses
plus court costs; and
      (2)   Second or subsequent violation: $100 plus reimbursement for
authorities' expenses plus court costs.
   (D)   Construction violations.
      (1)   First violation: $50 plus reimbursement for authorities expenses
plus court costs; and
      (2)   Second or subsequent violation: $100 plus reimbursement for
authorities expenses plus court costs.
   (E)   Mortician requirements.
      (1)   First violation: $100 plus reimbursement for authorities' expenses
plus court costs; and
      (2)   Second or subsequent violation: $200 plus reimbursement for
authorities' expenses plus court costs.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
CHAPTER 92: GARBAGE, RUBBISH, ASHES, AND FILTH
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Property to be kept free from rubbish or refuse
   
92.03   Throwing refuse or rubbish on streets, alleys, or sidewalks
   
92.04   Disposal of dead carcasses
   
92.05   Unsanitary privies
Burning of Trash, Refuse, and Other Material
   
92.10   Garbage placed outdoors for collection
   
92.11   Open burning prohibited
   
92.12   Regulation of cooking fires or grills
Transportation and Disposal of Waste Materials
   
92.20   Requirements for vehicles
   
92.21   Exception for private automobiles
   
92.22   Waste disposal or transfer stations
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Food waste and refuse of a similar nature.
   WASTE MATERIALS. All putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, including, but
not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, household wastes, industrial and
construction wastes, and all material disposable at waste disposal and transfer
stations and locations in the town.
§ 92.02 PROPERTY TO BE KEPT FREE FROM RUBBISH OR REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying, or having the
use and control of, any lot or building in the town to throw or deposit, or
permit to remain upon, in, or about the lot or building any kind of refuse or
rubbish, manure, or other unwholesome thing or material.
   (B)   Any person owning any lot or building or having the use and control
thereof, within the limits of the corporation, shall be required to keep the
lot or building, and everything pertaining thereto, in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (C)   No person shall store, place, or dispose on his or her lot or building
or the lot or building of another, or permit to accumulate on his or her lot or
building, any solid waste in such a manner whereby it will become a rodent or
insect harborage or breeding place, or create a health menace, and unsanitary
condition, or nuisance.
   (D)   On 24-hours’ notice given by the Marshal or other official designated
by the Town Council, any person owning or occupying, or having the use and
control of, any lot or building on which refuse or rubbish, manure, solid
waste, or other unwholesome material has accumulated shall be required to
remove it immediately.
(1963 Code, Ch. 7, § 2) (Ord. 1-1878, passed 4-15-1878; Am. Ord. 2-1977, passed
10-3-1977)
Penalty, see § 92.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of the disposal of wastes, see I.C. 36-9-6-19
§ 92.03 THROWING REFUSE OR RUBBISH ON STREETS, ALLEYS, OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or permit to remain any
refuse or rubbish, manure, or other unwholesome thing or material in or upon
any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other public property within the
town.
(1963 Code, Ch. 7, § 2) (Ord. 27-1878, passed 4-15-1878)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.04 DISPOSAL OF DEAD CARCASSES.
   (A)   All dead carcasses found within the town shall be removed by the owner
or by the persons responsible for the existence of the carcasses.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Marshal, or other official designated
by the Town Council, to notify the owner or other responsible person and to
order the removal of the carcass.
      (2)   If the owner or other person responsible shall refuse to comply
with the order, then the carcass shall be removed at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   If the owner of any carcass found in the town is not known, then it
shall be the duty of the Marshal or other official designated by the Town
Council to remove and dispose of it.
(1963 Code, Ch. 7, § 3) (Ord. 1-1978, passed - -)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.05 UNSANITARY PRIVIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit any human excrement
on any premises in an unsanitary manner, or to erect, construct, maintain, or
permit to remain upon any premises privies, vaults, cesspools, pits, or like
places, which are unsanitary or which are foul or malodorous, and these
conditions constitute a public nuisance.
(1963 Code, Ch. 7, § 4) (Ord. 4-1936, passed 10-19-1936)
Penalty, see § 92.99
BURNING OF TRASH, REFUSE, AND OTHER MATERIAL
§ 92.10 GARBAGE PLACED OUTDOORS FOR COLLECTION.
   Garbage placed outdoors for collection or disposal shall be kept in proper
garbage containers of metal or other suitable material covered with protective
lids.
(Ord. 4-1968, passed 12-16-1968; Am. Ord. 4-1976, passed 10-4-1976)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.11 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any flammable matter
within the corporate boundaries of the Town of Hagerstown except that which
meets the standards and regulations of the Indiana Air Pollution Control Board
and the further authorization of the Town Council of the Town of Hagerstown.
   (B)   Any person desiring to obtain the authorization from the Town Council
of Hagerstown must apply to the Town Council prior to any burn permitted by the
State Air Pollution Board and at least two weeks before the expected burn date,
providing full details and description of the place, time, material, and
expected duration of the burn, and including a copy of the State Air Pollution
Control permission to so burn. The Town Council will hear the applicant at its
next regular meeting after the application and review and determine in its
discretion if the burn, not being in violation of state standards, is also in
the best interests or is deemed to be detrimental to the health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the Town of Hagerstown.
   (C)   There shall be no charge for the application to the Town Council for a
permit to open burn when a permit has been issued by the State Air Pollution
Control Board and applicant furnishes all required information.
   (D)   This section does not establish regulations for any form of indoor
heating or cooking regulated by other laws and ordinances, nor for outdoor
cooking grills for the consumption of food on the premises, fires used for
Twelfth Night Ceremonies, pep rallies, scouting activities, and recreational
campfires, provided, nevertheless, upon notice by the Town Council or the Fire
Chief declaring an emergency, any authorized or unregulated outdoor open
burning of any kind shall cease until the restriction is released.
   (E)   Any open burning within the corporate boundaries of the town, whether
by permit and authorization, or by an exemption in division (D) above, shall be
properly attended at all times in order to guard against the spread of fire,
and is subject to immediate extinction by order of the Hagerstown Fire Chief or
his or her delegate should the burning be deemed by the official to create an
immediate hazard to the public safety and property.
   (F)   Any person authorized by the State Commissioner or his or her delegate
to conduct open burning declared by the State Air Pollution Control Board to be
an emergency necessary and permissible because of a natural disaster, notify
the Town Director of Municipal Operations and the Hagerstown Fire Chief, who
shall have authority to act in the emergency on behalf of the town.
(Ord. 4-1997, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 92.12 REGULATION OF COOKING FIRES OR GRILLS.
   No section of this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the use of open or
outdoor cooking fires or cooking grills, provided that the cooking fires or
cooking grills shall be for the preparation of food for consumption on the
premises, and that the cooking fires or cooking grills shall be properly
attended at all times in order to guard against the spread of fire.
(Ord. 6-1992, passed 11-16-1992)
Penalty, see § 92.99
TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL OF WASTE MATERIALS
§ 92.20 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle or motor vehicle shall be used to transport waste materials
in the town unless the waste materials are entirely enclosed within vehicles
having enclosed bodies on all sides with watertight beds.
   (B)   Vehicles meeting these requirements, except that an opening remains at
the top side of vehicle, may not transport waste materials without being
covered securely with a solid waterproof cover over the top opening to screen
the waste material from view and to hold and secure the waste material in the
vehicle.
   (C)   Waste materials in paper, cloth, or plastic bags, or uncovered barrels
or cans, or similar containers, must also be so covered.
(Ord. 5-1978, passed 10-16-1978)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.21 EXCEPTION FOR PRIVATE AUTOMOBILES.
   Section
92.20 shall not prevent any person from transporting waste material in a
private automobile from his or her own household to or through the town;
however, waste materials must be transported entirely within the confines of
the enclosed vehicle and meet the requirements of §
92.20 if the load is loose or leaks.
(Ord. 5-1978, passed 10-16-1978)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.22 WASTE DISPOSAL OR TRANSFER STATIONS.
   Vehicles and motor vehicles transporting waste material to a waste disposal
or transfer station or location in violation of § 92.20 shall not be permitted
to remain on or unload at any waste disposal or transfer station or location in
the town, and the owner, or person holding under the owner, agent, employee, or
other person responsible for the premises of any town waste disposal or
transfer station or location, shall not permit a vehicle in violation of §
92.20 to remain or unload.
(Ord. 5-1978, passed 10-16-1978)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person who violates §
92.02 shall, on conviction, be fined as follows:
      (1)   For the first day the violation remains uncured: $500;
      (2)   For the second day the violation remains uncured: $1,000; and
      (3)   For the third day the violation remains uncured, and for each and
every day the violation remains uncured: $2,500.
(Ord. 1-1878, passed 4-15-1878; Am. Ord. 2-1977, passed 10-3-1977)
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
92.03 or
92.05 shall, on conviction, be fined in a sum not exceeding $25 and each and
every day the violation continues shall be taken to be a separate offense.
(Ord. 27-1878, passed 4-15-1878; Am. Ord. 4-1936, passed 10-19-1936)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
92.04 shall, on conviction, be fined in a sum not exceeding $50.
(Ord. 1-1878, passed 4-15-1878)
   (D)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of §§
92.11 and
92.12 shall be fined a sum of not less than $25 nor more than $2,500 for each
and every offense.
(Ord. 4-1968, passed 12-16-1968; Am. Ord. 4-1976, passed 10-4-1976; Am. Ord. 6-
1992, passed 11-16-1992; Am. Ord. 4-1997, passed 10-6-1997)
   (E)   Any violation of §§
92.20 through
92.22 by any person shall be an infraction of law for which the penalty shall
be $100 for each and every violation.
(Ord. 5-1978, passed 10-16-1978; Am. Ord. 16-2021, passed 11-1-2021)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Rules and regulations adopted by reference
   
93.02   Establishment of park
   
93.03   Custody and management
   
93.04   Rights and powers of the Town Council
Department of Parks and Recreation and Board of Parks and Recreation
   
93.05   Creation
   
93.06   Powers and duties of Board
   
93.07   Composition of Board
   
93.08   Vacancies on the Board
   
93.09   Meetings of the Board
   
93.10   Compensation of Board members
   
93.11   Annual organization of Board
   
93.12   Meeting place of Board
   
93.13   Gifts and bequests
   
93.14   Department funds
   
93.15   Use of funds
   
93.16   Nonreverting capital funds
   
93.17   Discrimination
   
93.18   Park free of charge; reasonable fees for facilities and activities
Superintendent of Parks and Recreation
   
93.20   Appointment, compensation, and qualifications
   
93.21   Duties
   
93.22   Assistants to the Superintendent
Advisory Council
   
93.25   Advisory Council to the Park Board
   
93.26   Duties
Bonds
   
93.30   Issuance; limitation on amount; denominations and interest
   
93.31   Notice and hearing on bond issues
   
93.32   Deposit and use of bond proceeds
   
93.33   Levy for payment of bonds; Park District Bond Fund
   
93.34   Effect of discontinuance of Board or district on bond obligations
Contracts
   
93.40   Contracts with town or school boards
   
93.41   Contracts with other parties
Municipal Pool
   
93.55   Name
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Rules and regulations for the operation and control of the Hagerstown
Park by the Municipal Park Board of the town and now on file in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer in three separate volumes of the rules and regulations of
the town are hereby approved, adopted, and established by reference hereto and
are incorporated herein as though fully set forth herein, the rules and
regulations to continue to remain in effect hereinafter.
   (B)   The rules and regulations of the park may be amended from time to time
hereinafter by adoption and recommendation of the respective controlling boards
or commissions and the Hagerstown Town Council, and the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall then place each and every amendment so adopted in the appropriate volume
or volumes of rules and regulations on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer, all of which rules and regulations shall be open to public
inspection during the established hours for business in the Town Hall.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 93.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF PARK.
   (A)   There is established a public park to be located on 16.83 acres of
land with the improvements thereon, approximately one-half mile west of the
west corporation line of the town in Jefferson Township, Wayne County, Indiana,
or on any part that may be designated by the Town Council or by any authority
created by the Town Council for the management of public parks of the town.
   (B)   This real estate is subject to conditions with respect to the
reservation of rights and easements by the Sohio Pipe Line Company.
(1963 Code, Ch. 9, § 1) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 4-1-1963)
§ 93.03 CUSTODY AND MANAGEMENT.
   The custody and management of the park shall be in the Town Council unless
the Town Council by ordinance creates a separate authority for the management
of public parks.
(1963 Code, Ch. 9, § 3) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 4-1-1963)
§ 93.04 RIGHTS AND POWERS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   This chapter shall not be construed to deprive the town of any right
or authority conferred upon it by any state statutes relating to parks and
recreation, in addition to those herein contained.
   (B)   Powers conferred by this chapter shall not be exercised by a Board of
Parks and Recreation which is not organized under the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION AND BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 93.05 CREATION.
   There is created a Department of Parks and Recreation, to be composed of a
Board of Parks and Recreation. This Board is invested with the power to perform
all acts necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct
those programs which are generally understood to be park and recreation
functions.
(Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.06 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to all other powers necessary to achieve its
general objectives, the Park Board shall have, for park and recreation
purposes, the following powers and duties.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Exercise general supervision of and make regulations for the
Department and establish rules governing the use of the park and recreation
facilities by the public;
      (2)   Provide police protection for its property and activities either by
requesting assistance from state, town, or county police authorities, or by
having specified employees deputized as police officers. The deputized
employees, however, shall not be eligible for police pension benefits or other
emoluments of police officers;
      (3)   Make contracts and leases for facilities and services, but shall
have no authority to contract with a person, corporation, or private agency for
the operation of a park recreation program;
      (4)   Acquire and dispose of real and personal property;
      (5)   Exercise the power of eminent domain;
      (6)   Appoint the administrative officers of the Department as are
necessary, fix their duties and compensation, and delegate authority to perform
ministerial acts in all cases except where final action of the Town Council is
necessary;
      (7)   Establish standards and qualifications for the appointment of all
personnel, fix their compensation, and approve their appointments without
regard to political considerations;
      (8)   Engage in self-supporting activities as prescribed below;
      (9)   Contract for special and temporary services and for professional
assistance;
      (10)   Make recommendations and an annual report to the Town Council
concerning the operation of the Park Board and the status of park and
recreation programs within its jurisdiction;
      (11)   Prepare, publish, and distribute reports and other materials
relating to authorized activities;
      (12)   Sue and be sued collectively by its legal name Hagerstown Park and
Recreation Board; service of process being had upon the President of the Park
Board; but no costs shall be taxed against the Board or its members in any
action;
      (13)   Invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter and any state statutes pertaining to parks
and recreation, a park or recreation ordinance, or the Board’s own action taken
thereunder;
      (14)   Prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as other
departments of the town government; and
      (15)   Engage a Superintendent and such other personnel as the Board may
from time to time determine.
(Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties, I.C. 36-10-3-10 and 36-10-3-11
§ 93.07 COMPOSITION OF BOARD.
   (A)   The Park Board consists of four members to be appointed by the
President of the Town Council. The members shall be appointed on the basis of
their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation, but no more than two
members may be affiliated with the same political party. In addition, the
creating ordinance may provide for one or two ex officio members, those being:
      (1)   A member:
         (a)   Of the Board of School Trustees selected by that Board; or
         (b)   Designated by the Board of School Trustees if the Board is in a
town.
      (2)   A member of the Library Board selected by that Board; or
      (3)   Both divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above.
   (B)   Initial appointments to the Park Board are as follows:
      (1)   One member for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member for a term of two years;
      (3)   One member for a term of three years; and
      (4)   One member for a term of four years.
   (C)   As a term expires, each new appointment is for a four-year term. All
terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member continues in office
until his or her successor is appointed.
(I.C. 36-10-3-4 and 36-10-3-5) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.08 VACANCIES ON THE BOARD.
   If a vacancy on the Park Board occurs, the President of the Town Council
shall appoint a member for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(I.C. 36-10-3-5(f)) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.09 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   All meetings of the Board are open to the public. The Board shall fix
the time and place of its regular meetings, but it shall meet at least
quarterly.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the President or by any
two members by written request to the Secretary. The Secretary shall send to
each member, at least two days before a special meeting, a written notice
fixing the time, place, and purpose of the meeting. Written notice of a special
meeting is not required if the time of the special meeting is fixed at a
regular meeting or if all members are present at the special meeting.
   (C)   A majority of the members constitutes a quorum. Action of the Board is
not official unless it is authorized by at least three members present and
acting.
(I.C. 36-10-3-8) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.10 COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members of the Board shall receive no salary.
   (B)   When the Board decides it is desirable for members or employees to
attend a state, regional, or national conference dealing with park and
recreation problems, it may authorize the payment of the actual expenses
involved in attending these meetings, if the amount has been made available in
the Board’s appropriations.
(I.C. 36-10-3-9) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.11 ANNUAL ORGANIZATION OF BOARD.
   At its first regular meeting each year, the Board shall elect a President
and a Vice-President. The Vice-President may act as President during the
absence or disability of the President. The Board may select a Secretary either
from within or outside its membership.
(I.C. 36-10-3-8(c)) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.12 MEETING PLACE OF BOARD.
   The Town Council shall provide suitable quarters for the holding of meetings
and conducting the work of the Park Board.
(Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.13 GIFTS AND BEQUESTS.
   (A)   The Board may accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for park and
recreational purposes. However, a gift or transfer of property to the Board may
not be made without its approval.
   (B)   A gift or grant of money shall be deposited in a special nonreverting
fund to be available for expenditure by the Board for purposes specified by the
grantor. The disbursing officer of the unit may draw warrants against the fund
only upon vouchers signed by the President and Secretary of the Board.
(I.C. 36-10-3-18) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.14 DEPARTMENT FUNDS.
   The Town Council shall determine and provide the revenues necessary for the
operation of the Department of Parks and Recreation, or for capital
expenditures, not covered by the issuance of bonds by:
   (A)   A specific levy to be used exclusively for these purposes;
   (B)   A special appropriation; or
   (C)   Both of these methods.
(I.C. 36-10-3-19(b)) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.15 USE OF FUNDS.
   The Department is authorized to expend, under regular town procedures as
provided by law, all sums appropriated to it for purposes and activities
authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.16 NONREVERTING CAPITAL FUNDS.
   (A)   The Town Council may establish by ordinance, upon request of the Park
Board:
      (1)   A special nonreverting fund for park purposes from which
expenditures may be made as provided by ordinance, either by appropriation by
the Park Board or by the Town Council; and/or
      (2)   A special nonreverting capital fund for the purpose of acquiring
land or making specific capital improvements from which expenditures may be
made by appropriation by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate the fund or funds into which the
County Treasurer shall deposit fees from golf courses, swimming pools, skating
rinks, or other major facilities requiring major expenditures for management
and maintenance. Money received from fees other than from major facilities or
received from the sale of surplus property shall be deposited by the County
Treasurer either in the special nonreverting operating fund or in the
nonreverting capital fund, as directed by the Town Council. However, if neither
fund has been established, money received from fees or from the sale or surplus
property shall be deposited in the General Fund. Money from either special fund
may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed and signed by the President
and Secretary of the Town Council.
   (C)   Money placed in the special nonreverting capital fund may not be
withdrawn except for the purposes for which the fund was created, unless the
Town Council repeals the ordinance establishing the fund. The Town Council may
not repeal the ordinance under suspension of the rules.
   (D)   Money procured from fees or received from the sale of surplus property
under I.C. 36-10-3-12 shall be deposited at least once each month with the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-10-3-22) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.17 DISCRIMINATION.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted as authority for discriminatory
treatment of nonresidents of a town or county in the use of park and
recreational facilities.
(Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.18 PARK FREE OF CHARGE; REASONABLE FEES FOR FACILITIES AND ACTIVITIES.
   The parks and playgrounds of the town shall be available to the public free
of charge; however, there is hereby established a schedule of rates and fees
for the use of certain park facilities, including shelters, other structures,
and the Hagerstown Dutro Municipal Pool, all as set forth in the schedule which
is incorporated in Ordinance 8-2010 and is attached thereto and marked as
Exhibit “A”. The attached schedule may be amended, from time to time as
warranted; however, any amendment to the schedule must be available for public
inspection at the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer and/or at Town Hall, 49
East College Street, Hagerstown, Indiana.
(I.C. 36-10-3-22) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964; Am. Ord. 8-2010, passed 6-21-
2010)
SUPERINTENDENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 93.20 APPOINTMENT, COMPENSATION, AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall appoint a Superintendent of
Parks and Recreation and fix his or her annual salary compensation commensurate
with his or her qualifications; upon approval of the Park Board, the
Superintendent may be additionally compensated for performing duties as a
caretaker as may be determined by the Park Board within the annual budget of
the Park Board.
   (B)   The tenure and compensation of the Park Superintendent shall be
subject to termination by the Park Board at any time.
   (C)   The Board shall give no consideration to political affiliation in the
selection of the Superintendent.
(I.C. 36-10-3-13) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964; Am. Ord. 14-1979, passed 12-
17-1979)
§ 93.21 DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. Under the direction of the Park Board, the Superintendent
shall perform the following duties.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Propose annually a plan for the operation of the Department;
      (2)   Administer the plan as approved by the Board;
      (3)   Supervise the general administration of the Department;
      (4)   Keep the records of the Department and be responsible for the
custody and preservation of all papers and documents of the Department;
      (5)   Recommend persons for appointment as assistants if the Board
determines there is a need;
      (6)   Appoint the employees of the Department, subject to the approval of
the Board, according to the standards and qualifications on a basis similar to
that prescribed for the Superintendent;
      (7)   Prepare and present to the Board an annual report; and
      (8)   Perform other duties that the Board directs.
(I.C. 36-10-3-14) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.22 ASSISTANTS TO THE SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   If the Board determines that the size of the Department’s operation
requires assistants for the Superintendent, the Board may appoint, upon the
recommendation of the Superintendent, one or more assistants. The Board shall
determine their qualifications on a basis similar to that prescribed for the
Superintendent.
   (B)   Assistants are directly responsible to the Superintendent and shall
perform the duties specified by the Superintendent.
(I.C. 36-10-3-15) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
ADVISORY COUNCIL
§ 93.25 ADVISORY COUNCIL TO THE PARK BOARD.
   (A)   The Board may create an Advisory Council and special committees
composed of citizens interested in parks and recreation.
   (B)   In selecting an Advisory Council or special committees, the Board
shall give consideration to the groups in the community particularly interested
in parks and recreation. In a resolution creating an Advisory Council or a
special committee, the Board shall specify the terms of its members and the
purposes for which it is created.
(I.C. 36-10-3-17) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.26 DUTIES.
   The Advisory Council or a special committee shall:
   (A)   Study the subjects and problems specified by the Board and recommend
to the Board additional problems in need of study;
   (B)   Advise the Board concerning these subjects, particularly as they
relate to different areas and groups in the community;
   (C)   Upon the invitation of the Board, sit with and participate in the
deliberation of the Board, but without the right to vote; and
   (D)   The Advisory Council or a special committee shall report only to the
Board, and make inquiries and reports only in those areas specified by the
Board’s resolution creating the Council or committee.
(I.C. 36-10-3-17) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
BONDS
§ 93.30 ISSUANCE; LIMITATION ON AMOUNT; DENOMINATIONS AND INTEREST.
   (A)   In order to raise money to pay for land to be acquired for any of the
purposes named in this chapter, to pay for an improvement authorized by this
chapter, or both, and in anticipation of the special benefit tax to be levied
as provided in this chapter, the Board shall cause to be issued, in the name of
the unit, the bonds of the district. The bonds may not exceed in amount the
total cost of all land to be acquired and all improvements described in the
resolution, including all expenses necessarily incurred in connection with the
proceedings, together with a sum sufficient to pay the costs of supervision and
inspection during the period of construction of a work. The expenses to be
covered in the bond issue include all expenses of every kind actually incurred
preliminary to acquiring the land and the construction of the work, such as the
cost of the necessary record, engineering expenses, publication of notices,
preparation of bonds, and other necessary expenses. If more than one resolution
or proceeding of the Town Council under I.C. 36-10-3-23 is confirmed whereby
different parcels of land are to be acquired, or more than one contract for
work is let by the Town Council at approximately the same time, the cost
involved under all of the resolutions and proceedings may be included in one
issue of bonds.
   (B)   The bonds may be issued in any denomination not less than $1,000 each,
in not less than five nor more than 40 annual series. The bonds are payable one
series each year, beginning at a date after the receipt of taxes from a levy
made for that purpose. The bonds are negotiable. The bonds may bear interest at
any rate, payable semiannually. After adopting a resolution ordering bonds, the
Board shall certify a copy of the resolution to the Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall prepare the bonds and the President of the Board shall execute
them, attested by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The bonds and final interest on them are exempt from taxation as
prescribed by I.C. 6-8-5-1. Bonds issued under this section are subject to the
provisions of I.C. 5-1 and I.C. 6-1.1-20 relating to:
      (1)   The filing of a petition requesting the issuance of bonds;
      (2)   The right of:
         (a)   Taxpayers and voters to remonstrate against the issuance of
bonds in the case of a proposed bond issue described by I.C. 6-1.1-20-3.1(a);
or
         (b)   Voters to vote on the issuance of bonds in the case of proposed
bond issue described by I.C. 6-1.1-20-3.5(a).
      (3)   The appropriation of the proceeds of the bonds and approval by the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (4)   The sale of bonds at public sale for not less than their par value.
   (D)   The Town Council may not have bonds of the district issued under this
section that are payable by special taxation when the total issued for that
purpose, including the bonds already issued or to be issued, exceeds 2% of the
total assessed valuation of the property in the district. All bonds or
obligations issued in violation of this division are void. The bonds are not
obligations or indebtedness of the unit, but constitute an indebtedness of the
district as a special taxing district. The bonds and interest are payable only
out of a special tax levied upon all the property of the district as prescribed
by this chapter. The bonds must recite the terms upon their face, together with
the purposes for which they are issued.
(I.C. 36-10-3-24)
§ 93.31 NOTICE AND HEARING ON BOND ISSUES.
   (A)   Before bonds may be issued under I.C. 36-10-3-23, the Town Council
shall give notice of a public hearing to disclose the purposes for which the
bond issue is proposed, the amount of the proposed issue, and all other
pertinent data.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have published, in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1,
a notice of the time, place, and purpose of the hearing.
   (C)   After the public hearing and before additional proceedings on the bond
issues, the Town Council must obtain an ordinance approving the bond issue from
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-10-3-25)
§ 93.32 DEPOSIT AND USE OF BOND PROCEEDS.
   All proceeds from the sale of bonds issued under I.C. 36-10-3-24 shall be
kept in a separate fund. The fund shall be used to pay for land and other
property acquired and for the construction of a work under the resolution,
including all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the project. The
fund may not be used for any other purpose. The fund shall be deposited as
provided in this chapter. A surplus remaining from the proceeds of the bonds
after all costs and expenses are paid shall be paid into and becomes a part of
the Park District Bond Fund.
(I.C. 36-10-3-26)
§ 93.33 LEVY FOR PAYMENT OF BONDS; PARK DISTRICT BOND FUND.
   (A)   In order to raise money to pay all bonds issued under I.C. 36-10-3-24,
the Town Council shall levy annually a special tax upon all of the real and
personal property located in the district sufficient to pay the principal of
the bonds as they mature, including accrued interest. The Town Council shall
have the tax to be levied each year certified to the auditor of the county in
which the district is located at the time for certification of tax levies. The
tax shall be collected and enforced by the County Treasurer in the same manner
as other taxes are collected and enforced.
   (B)   As the tax is collected, it shall be accumulated and kept in a
separate fund to be known as the Park District Bond Fund. The tax shall be
applied to the payment of the district bonds and interest as they mature and
may not be used for another purpose.
(I.C. 36-10-3-27)
§ 93.34 EFFECT OF DISCONTINUANCE OF BOARD OR DISTRICT ON BOND OBLIGATIONS.
   If a board or district is discontinued under I.C. 36-10-3-3 and a new board
or district is not established, the primary obligation on its bonds is not
affected, and the unit assumes liability for the payment of the bonds according
to their terms.
(I.C. 36-10-3-28)
CONTRACTS
§ 93.40 CONTRACTS WITH TOWN OR SCHOOL BOARDS.
   The Board of Parks and Recreation may contract with another board, a unit,
or a school corporation for the use of park and recreation facilities or
services, and a township or school corporation may contract with the Board for
the use of park and recreation facilities or services
(I.C. 36-10-3-11(3)) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
§ 93.41 CONTRACTS WITH OTHER PARTIES.
   (A)   The Park Board may contract with another board, a governmental unit,
department, or agency, or with a person for property, facilities, or services;
but shall have no authority to contract with a person, corporation, or private
agency for the operation of a park or recreation program.
   (B)   The Town Council may sell, lease, or enter into a royalty contract for
the natural or mineral resources of land which it owns.
   (C)   Money received from these sources shall be deposited in the
nonreverting capital fund of the Board of Parks and Recreation.
(I.C. 36-10-3-11) (Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964)
MUNICIPAL POOL
§ 93.55 NAME.
   The town’s municipal pool, as established pursuant to Ord. 2-2000, shall
hereinafter be named the Hagerstown Dutro Municipal Pool.
(Ord. 9-2006, passed 9-5-2006)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1-1964, passed 6-1-1964; Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND ALLEYS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Obstruction of streets
   
94.02   Paving alleys
   
94.03   Planting shade and ornamental trees
Cutting Public Right-of-Way
   
94.10   Definitions
   
94.11   Cutting the street opening
   
94.12   Backfilling
   
94.13   Replacing pavement and base
   
94.14   Curbing
   
94.15   Permit
   
94.16   Improper use of public ways
   
94.99    Penalty
   
Appendix A: Diagrams
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any street or alley of
the town by building a fence or fences or by placing a gate or gates across it
or to obstruct any street or alley of the town in any manner whatever without
the express written consent of the Town Council.
   (B)   Any person guilty of violating this section shall, on conviction, be
fined in any sum not exceeding $10 for each and every day the obstruction
remains.
(1963 Code, Ch. 10, § l) (Ord. 12-1878, passed 4-15-1878)
Statutory reference:
   Obstruction of streets, see I.C. 36-9-2-7
§ 94.02 PAVING ALLEYS.
   (A)   When all of the owners of lots adjoining a public alley in the town
between intersections of public alleys and public alleys, or public alleys and
public streets request, by properly signed petitions, to have the public alley
paved, then the town shall cooperate in the paving by furnishing the following:
      (1)   All necessary engineering service;
      (2)   All labor necessary to do necessary grading;
      (3)   All necessary gravel; and
      (4)   All necessary equipment.
   (B)   The lot owners shall do and furnish all else necessary, and all work
done and material furnished shall be according to the plans and specifications
duly approved by the Town Council.
   (C)   There must be sufficient funds available and appropriated to do and
perform the things set out in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   If any of the owners fail or refuse to sign the original petition and
other owners adjoining the alley sign an agreement to furnish material and
labor for those failing or refusing to sign, then, in that event, the petition
shall be considered as having been signed by all of the lot owners.
   (E)   If two or more petitions are pending at the same time, the Town
Council shall be the sole judge as to which petition shall receive first
consideration and action.
   (F)   The entire expense of paving intersections of alleys shall be paid by
the town.
(1963 Code, Ch. 10, § 2) (Ord. 1-1942, passed 1-5-1942)
§ 94.03 PLANTING SHADE AND ORNAMENTAL TREES.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for any person owning or having the control of any
lot or lots within the corporation to plant and cultivate shade or ornamental
trees in front of the lot or lots, provided, that the trees when planted shall
be at least eight feet from the front line of the lot or lots on Main, Perry,
and Washington Streets, and at least six feet from the front line on all other
streets.
   (B)   This section shall not affect the placement of shade or ornamental
trees planted prior to the adoption of this section.
(1963 Code, Ch. 3, § 3) (Ord. 19-1878, passed 4-15-1878)
Penalty, see § 94.99
CUTTING PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 94.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFILL. The material used in refilling an opening from the bottom of the
new base.
   FLEXIBLE BASE. Asphalt concrete, stone, or other material commonly used in
the construction of a roadway.
   RIGID BASE. Cement concrete, or reinforced cement concrete under an asphalt
surface.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Utilities, or any of his or her
appointed representatives.
(Ord. 12-1981, passed 8-3-1981)
§ 94.11 CUTTING THE STREET OPENING.
   (A)   Openings shall be saw cut with straight, neat, vertical edges, and
square corners.
   (B)   No opening shall have the dimension of less than 18 inches unless
authorized by the Superintendent.
   (C)   Openings shall be made so that there is no section of adjacent old
pavement with a dimension of less than 18 inches unless authorized by the
Superintendent.
   (D)   Methods used in removal of pavement material shall not cause damage to
adjacent pavement.
   (E)   Where existing pavement contains reinforcing, steel shall not be cut
with pneumatic hammers, but shall be cut by sawing or gas cutting.
   (F)   Openings in concrete pavement shall be outlined with a saw to provide
straight, neat joining lines.
(Ord. 12-1981, passed 8-3-1981)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.12 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Method “A.” If protection for underground facilities does not require
clay for backfill, then the entire depth of the excavation shall be filled with
granular material in 12-inch layers with each layer being thoroughly compacted,
as in Appendix A at the end of this chapter.
   (B)   Method “B.” Selected clay material free from rocks may be used in the
bottom two feet of the excavation under circumstances where clay material is
desired for the protection of underground facilities, but the clay material
shall not be used within 18 inches of the finish grade. Clay backfill must be
placed in layers not to exceed four-inch thickness and each layer must be
thoroughly compacted by mechanical means. The remaining depth shall be filled
with granular material and compacted in no more than 6-inch layers as in
Appendix A at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 12-1981, passed 8-3-1981)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.13 REPLACING PAVEMENT AND BASE.
   (A)   Concrete and base.
      (1)   Concrete will not be used if the cut is within two feet of any
utility line owned by the town.
      (2)   When this is not the case, concrete will be used, and shall be high
early strength type; have compressive strength of 4,000 P.S.I. after 28 days;
be placed at a uniform depth.
   (B)   When repairing concrete surfaces.
      (1)   Concrete shall be broom finished to conform to the cross-section
and profile of the roadway and the edges troweled to be neat and uniform.
      (2)   If an opening is to extend from one joint section of existing
pavement into another, a butt joint or contraction joint of two inches in depth
shall be constructed on the alignment of the original joint.
      (3)   If the opening is to be more than 15 feet in length and no original
joints are provided, then contraction joints must be constructed so that no
joint spacing is greater than 15 feet.
   (C)   Hot asphalt concrete pavement.
      (1)   Materials shall be placed and compacted in lifts not to exceed l.5
inches in depth.
      (2)   The final surface will be rolled with equipment standard to the
standard asphalt paving industry. Hand tamping will not be allowed.
      (3)   Materials and application will meet the specifications for hot
asphalt concrete as prescribed by the Indiana State Highway Commission.
(Ord. 12-1981, passed 8-3-1981)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.14 CURBING.
   (A)   All curbing will be installed according to curb and gutter detail
drawing types A, B, and C in Appendix A to this chapter.
   (B)   As soon as newly placed concrete acquires an initial set but no more
than 12 hours after placing, an approved method of curbing shall be initiated
which will not discolor or disfigure the curbing and gutter.
   (C)   Newly poured curb and gutter shall be closed to traffic for a period
of 48 hours when the temperature is above 50°F and for a period of 72 hours
when the temperature is between 35° and 50°F.
   (D)   Only with the consent of the Superintendent will concrete be permitted
to be placed as curb and gutter when the temperature is below 35°F.
(Ord. 12-1981, passed 8-3-1981)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.15 PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall dig or make an excavation of any kind in
any public street, alley, or sidewalk of the town without first obtaining a
written permit from the Superintendent of Utilities to do so.
   (B)   Application for permit. The applicant for the permit shall execute, in
triplicate, a written application to be furnished by the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer. The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The date when the proposed excavation is to be made and the
estimated time for completion of the work necessitating the excavation;
      (2)   The location of the area where the excavation is to be made and the
purpose; and
      (3)   The approximate dimensions of the excavation.
   (C)   Agreement of applicant.
      (1)   By his or her application, the applicant agrees to the following
specifications to fill, close, seal, and resurface the excavation:
         (a)   To backfill opening of street, alley, or sidewalk, with pea
gravel or bankrun gravel and to tamp in top of that part of the trench which is
in the traveled street or alley and to maintain the street or alley surface
which has been disturbed in a smooth and uniform condition for a period of 52
weeks after traffic is again permitted to pass over the filled trench, unless
otherwise specifically provided;
         (b)   To resurface all openings at least 20 days after refill;
         (c)   To stop the work at any time on request of the Superintendent;
         (d)   To resurface with the same kind of material removed by cutting;
         (e)   To haul from the project all the unused material used in the
refill; and
         (f)   To notify the Superintendent of the date of cutting and refill
for proper inspection. All work must be approved by the Superintendent when
completed.
      (2)   The applicant further agrees that in the event the excavation is
not properly filled, closed, and sealed or resurfaced pursuant to the
established standards and regulations and after due notice from the
Superintendent of the defects or omissions, the applicant shall immediately
proceed to correct the defects and omissions in the closing of the excavation.
      (3)   In the event that the defects or omissions are not corrected within
a reasonable period of time after mailing of the notice, the Superintendent
shall proceed to properly close and resurface the excavation, and shall bill
the applicant for the cost of labor and material required to properly close and
resurface the excavation. The applicant shall agree to reimburse the town for
costs so incurred.
      (4)   The applicant agrees to erect and maintain, as safeguards and
warnings to the public, proper and adequate guards and sufficient and adequate
warning lights about the work and excavation until the project is complete and
the surface is properly restored.
      (5)   The applicant agrees to indemnify and save harmless the town from
and against any and all liability, damages, expenses, and judgments from
injuries to any person or property as a result of the excavation.
      (6)   The applicant agrees to make the excavation within a period of 30
days after issuance of the permit.
   (D)   Conditions of permit; fee.
      (1)   Before the granting of a permit to any person, the Superintendent
shall do the following:
         (a)   Require the applicant to file with the Clerk-Treasurer an
insurance policy, or a certificate showing insurance to be in effect, issued by
a responsible insurance carrier to protect the applicant and the town from
personal and property damage arising from or caused or affected to any extent
by an excavation made pursuant to the permit;
         (b)   Check the records of the town to ascertain whether the applicant
has ever failed to reimburse the town for any work or materials furnished by
the town in the filling and resurfacing of any excavation made by the applicant
on a previous permit. In the event that the town records disclose any unpaid
account owed by the applicant, the permit shall not be granted until payment is
made in full; and
         (c)   Require the payment of a fee of $40 for a permit.
      (2)   Thereafter, the Superintendent shall issue a permit to the
applicant and the permit shall contain the name of the applicant, the date of
issuance of the permit, the place where the excavation is to be made, and the
approximate dimensions thereof. The permit shall be authority to break the
street, alley, or sidewalk specified therein.
   (E)   Emergencies. In the event of an emergency requiring the immediate
excavation of a street, alley, or sidewalk, any person may proceed to open or
make the excavation necessary to alleviate the condition causing the emergency
without first applying for and being granted a permit. However, within 48 hours
after making the excavation, the person shall make application for a permit as
set forth above.
   (F)   Issuance of a permit. On the issuance of a permit the Superintendent
shall mark each copy of the application Approved and Permit Issued; to which he
or she shall also note the date of issuance and his or her signature. The
original shall be retained by the Superintendent, a copy shall be delivered to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and a copy shall be issued to the applicant.
   (G)   Inspection. The Superintendent shall inspect each project for which a
permit has been issued to determine whether proper safeguards and lights may
have been installed, to see that the excavation is properly closed and
resurfaced, and to give notice and properly close and resurface the opening or
excavation in the event that the restoration is not completed within a
reasonable time or is inadequately or improperly completed by the permittee. On
final inspection, the Superintendent shall note on his or her copy of the
application the completion of the project. He or she shall further note any
moneys expended by the city on behalf of the permittee in completing the
project and shall then return his or her copy to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (H)   Waiver. The Superintendent may waive the requirements of this
subchapter and issue a permit to an applicant when the Building Commissioner
has authorized new construction in regard to which provision has been made to
protect public safety and hold the town harmless from any and all claims,
liability, and damage.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.16 IMPROPER USE OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or cause to be obstructed the movement of
vehicular traffic or legal parking of vehicles in any public way located within
the town, except as may be necessary while loading or unloading merchandise or
materials, and except as may be permitted under this chapter. This provision
shall also prevent any person from playing any game upon any street of the
town. This provision shall also prevent any person from placing game playing
equipment on any street, public way, or designated public right-of-way or
easement of the town.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall negate the authority of the Town
Council to issue permits with respect to street closings and other traffic and
parking restrictions necessitated by circumstances approved by proper
authority.
(Ord. 2-1997, passed 4-21-1997; Am. Ord. 3-2010, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for the violation of any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be as prescribed by and set forth
in §
10.99 of
Chapter 10 (Rules of Construction; General Penalty) of Title I (General
Provisions) of the Town Code of Hagerstown, Indiana.
   (B)   The penalty for the violation of §§
94.10 et seq. shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $50 and not more
than $2,500 for each violation.
(Ord. 12-1981, passed 8-3-1981; Am. Ord. 2-1997, passed 4-21-1997; Am. Ord. 8-
2007, passed - -)
APPENDIX A: DIAGRAMS
Section
   
1.   Surface and base repairs
   
2.   Backfilling methods
   
3.   Curb and gutter detail; Types A, B and C
§ 1. SURFACE AND BASE REPAIRS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5be6777ae90278059a7173215d6b6d936904128e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1864.gif]
 
(Ord. 12-1981, passed 8-3-1981)
§ 2. BACKFILLING METHODS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5be6777ae90278059a7173215d6b6d936904128e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1866.gif]
 
(Ord. 12-1981, passed 8-3-1981)
§ 3. CURB AND GUTTER DETAIL: TYPES A, B, AND C.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5be6777ae90278059a7173215d6b6d936904128e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1868.gif]
 
(Ord. 2-1958, passed 4-21-1958; Am. Ord. 9-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 8-3-1981)
CHAPTER 95: PERSONAL PROPERTY SALES
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Prohibitions
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds and declares that the nonregulated sales of personal
property in districts zoned residential in the town designated herein as garage
sales are annoying to citizens of the town, conducive to congestion in the
area, and that it is necessary for the safety and welfare of the citizens of
the town to enact the provisions and prohibitions herein contained, not to
prevent, but to regulate the sales.
(Ord. 11-1982, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. All general sales, open to the public, conducted from or on a
residential premise in any residential zone, as defined by the zoning
ordinance, for the purpose of disposing of personal property, including, but
not limited to, all sales entitled GARAGE, LAWN, YARD, ATTIC, PORCH, ROOM,
BACKYARD, PATIO, FLEA MARKET, or RUMMAGE SALE.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which is owned, utilized, and maintained by an
individual or members of his or her residence and acquired in the normal course
of living in or maintaining a residence.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. All districts shown in the code of ordinances and the
zoning maps pertinent thereto which are zoned for residential one- or two-
family or multiple residential use only within the corporate limits of the
town.
(Ord. 11-1982, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 95.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Time limits.
      (1)   No garage sale shall be conducted by any person, or held by any
person, for a period in excess of four consecutive calendar days regardless of
the time of day the sale commences or ends at the place the sale is held.
      (2)   No garage sale shall be held on the same premises at the same
location by any person or persons more than three times in any calendar year,
nor within 30 consecutive calendar days of any previous garage sale on the same
premises at the same location.
   (B)   Signs.
      (1)   Signs, posters, or other materials used to advertise or promote a
garage sale shall not be placed on public property without written permission
of the owner or public body responsible for the use of the property.
      (2)   Signs, posters, or other materials used to advertise or promote a
garage sale shall not be placed so as to interfere, impede, or lessen the clear
view of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (3)   Signs, posters, or other materials used to advertise or promote a
garage sale shall conform to all other governmental laws and ordinances and
shall be removed within 24 hours after the last day of any individual garage
sale.
(Ord. 11-1982, passed 12-6-1982)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for the violation of any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be as prescribed by and set forth
§
10.99 of
Chapter 10 (Rules of Construction; General Penalty) of Title I (General
Provisions) of the Town Code of Hagerstown, Indiana.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 11-1982, passed 12-6-1982; Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 96: HAGERSTOWN AIRPORT
Section
   
96.01   Rules and regulations adopted by reference
   
96.02   Rules and regulations may be amended by adoption
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Rules and regulations for the operation and control of the Hagerstown
Airport by the Hagerstown Board of Aviation Commissioners of the town and now
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer in three separate volumes of the
rules and regulations of the town are hereby approved, adopted, and established
by reference hereto and are incorporated herein as though fully set forth
herein, the rules and regulations to continue to remain in effect hereinafter.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 11-21-1989)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS MAY BE AMENDED BY ADOPTION.
   The rules and regulations of the airport may be amended from the time to
time hereinafter by adoption and recommendation of the respective controlling
boards or commissions and the Hagerstown Town Council, and the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall then place each and every amendment so adopted in the
appropriate volume or volumes of rules and regulations on file in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer, all of which rules and regulations shall be open to public
inspection during the established hours for business in the Town Hall.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for the violation of any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be as prescribed by and set forth
in §
10.99 of
Chapter 10 (Rules of Construction; General Penalty) of Title I (General
Provisions) of the Town Code of Hagerstown, Indiana.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 97: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
97.01   Policy statement
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Unlawful practice
   
97.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
97.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
97.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
97.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
97.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
97.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
97.10   Exemptions
   
97.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 97.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Town of Hagerstown to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
97.04,
97.05,
97.06,
97.07, or
97.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of the
individual or the written permission of the parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of the family being
further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS of this section.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of the person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code; nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely
because that individual is transvestite (910 IAC2-3-2(14)) .
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 97.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
97.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in § 97.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
97.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
shall be exempted from application of this section only if the house is sold or
rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
97.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of this division (B) above, a person shall be deemed
to be in the businesses of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 97.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
97.03 and except as exempted by §§
97.03(B) and
97.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the mailing of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin,
or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person;
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person;
   (H)   For purpose of this section, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if the modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Lights, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard
for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and usability for
physically disabled people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy
the requirements of division (H)(3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord.9-2019, passed 9-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTION. Any of the following:
         (a)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
            1.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
            2.   Secured by residential real estate.
         (b)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real
property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 9-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of the access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 9-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
97.03,
97.04,
97.05, or
97.06.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 9-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force, or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwelling; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage the citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 9-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 97.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to those persons,
unless membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS. Housing:
            1.   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
            2.   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age
or older; or
            3.   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 97.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the Town of
Hagerstown, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief
elected official of the twon, shall refer all the complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) above to the Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C.
22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town, shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further the purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting the information.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 9-9-2019)
CHAPTER 98: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
98.01   Incorporation of state law
   
98.02   Towing, storage, and charges
   
98.03   Administration
   
98.04   Establishment of market value for disposal
   
98.05   Abandoned Vehicle Fund
§ 98.01 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   The provisions of I.C. 9-13-2-1 and 9-22-1-1 et seq., including any
amendments thereto, are declared to be in full force and effect for the town
and those provisions of the law are incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   All provisions of this chapter, which shall become a part of the town
code of ordinances (hereinafter referred to from time to time for convenience
sake as the code), shall be in conformance with and not in conflict with the
aforementioned sections of the Indiana Code. Any provision(s) found to be in
conflict with the Indiana Code shall be deemed amended to conform to the
statute. This chapter is passed pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-1 through 9-22-1-32 for
the purpose of facilitating the removal and disposition of abandoned vehicles
in the town.
   (C)   To the extent possible under law, any future amendment(s) and/or
recodification(s) of any statute(s), regulation(s), and/or code(s) referenced
and/or cited in this chapter shall be adopted by the passage of this chapter,
or any amendment(s) thereto, and the chapter may be amended, without further
action, to reflect a change(s) in the citation(s) to the statute(s), regulation
(s), and/or code(s) when the updates are appropriate, provided that the
amendment(s) does not alter the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 3-2000, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 98.02 TOWING, STORAGE, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The Police Department, in conjunction with the Town Clerk-Treasurer,
are hereby authorized to develop and implement a system for calling wreckers to
tow vehicles which are not removed by owner’s direction or pursuant to other
contract or agreement. The Police Department, in conjunction with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, shall be authorized to establish charges allowed for the
towing and storage of vehicles, and the allowed charges, and any subsequent
changes thereto, shall be filed with the Bureau pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-30. The
allowed charges shall be reasonable in light of all circumstances. The Police
Department shall not have any vehicle towed until the time that allowed charges
are established and filed with the Bureau as outlined herein.
   (B)   Any wreckers agreeing to tow and store vehicles pursuant to this
chapter and I.C. 9-22-1-1 etseq. shall agree and acknowledge that the town is
not responsible for payment for towing or storage, and that the wreckers are to
be paid by the owners or lien holders in the event that the vehicle is released
to the owner or lien holder pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-8 (pursuant to the allowed
charges filed with the Bureau), or paid by the Bureau in the event that the
vehicle is sold pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-23. Any wreckers agreeing to tow and
store vehicles shall agree that any charges in excess of the charges allowed
and paid by the owner, lien holder, or Bureau shall not be the responsibility
of the town.
(Ord. 3-2000, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 98.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This section is to provide assistance to the officers of the Police
Department, which shall include the Town Marshal/Police Chief (hereinafter from
time to time referred to for convenience sake as officers) in carrying out the
requirements of I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq., including any amendments thereto.
   (B)   The Town Marshal/Police Chief of the town shall make available to
officers a notice tag which complies with the requirements set forth in I.C. 9-
22-1-11, and any future amendments thereto.
   (C)   After an abandoned vehicle or parts have been tagged pursuant to I.C.
9-22-1-11 and is not removed within the statutorily-provided period, the
officer shall comply with all report and photographing requirements, and shall
arrange for the removal of the vehicle pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1. The Town
Marshal may, but is not required to, have the officer complete an affidavit of
compliance to be placed with and maintained with the reports and other
information required to be maintained by the Hagerstown Police Department by
I.C. 9-22-1. The affidavit of compliance, if completed, shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   That the officer believed the vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle;
      (2)   That the officer complied with the requirements of I.C. 9-22-1-1l;
      (3)   That, if applicable, the officer’s opinion is that the market value
of the vehicle is less than the amount established in this chapter; and
      (4)   That the officer has prepared the written report and taken the
necessary photographs required by I.C. 9-22-1.
   (D)   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage area pursuant
to I.C. 9-22-1, and within the time frame required therein, the Police
Department shall prepare and forward to the Bureau an abandoned vehicle report
in compliance with the chapter.
   (E)   Officers of the Police Department shall complete any and all necessary
reports required by I.C. 9-22-1, and shall take necessary photographs as
required by the statutory sections, and the reports and photographs shall be
maintained and preserved on file by the Police Department in compliance with
the time frames set forth in the statutory sections, and copies of the reports
and photographs shall be forwarded to the appropriate agency or agencies as
required by the statutory sections, including, but not limited to, the Indiana
Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (F)   The Police Department shall cooperate with and assist the Indiana
Bureau of Motor Vehicles in carrying out the Bureau’s responsibilities and
duties in regards to I.C. 9-22-1.
   (G)   The town establishes, pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-30, that the means for
disposition of vehicles shall be pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-23, in that the Bureau
shall be responsible for selling the vehicle or parts in the event that the
owner or lien holder does not appear within the statutorily-allotted time frame
after the Bureau mails the appropriate notice.
(Ord. 3-2000, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 98.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF MARKET VALUE FOR DISPOSAL.
   Pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-13(b), the Town Council, a municipality, hereby
establishes the market value below which an officer may dispose of a vehicle or
parts under I.C. 9-22-1-13(a) as $500.
(Ord. 3-2000, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 98.05 ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   The town, pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-30, hereby establishes an Abandoned
Vehicle Fund for the purposes of I.C. 9-22-1.
(Ord. 3-2000, passed 11-6-2000)
CHAPTER 99: NUISANCES
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Growth of certain vegetation restricted
   
99.03   Notice of violation
   
99.04   Failure to abate nuisance; cost of removal; lien
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRASS. The ornamental and/or environmental growth of plants having the
slender leaves characteristic of the grass family and used to cover an expanse
of land such as a lawn and is the primary ground cover for the expanse of land.
Common names of grass may be, but are not limited to, bluegrasses, fescues, and
ryegrasses.
   NOXIOUS. Harmful to living things or injurious to health or having the
potential to do so.
   RANK VEGETATION. Vegetation that is ill smelling, fetid, malodorous, or
noxious.
   WEED. A plant commonly considered to be undesirable, unattractive, or
troublesome, especially when growing where it is not wanted.
(Ord. 3-1998, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 99.02 GROWTH OF CERTAIN VEGETATION RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful and in violation of this chapter for any property owner
to permit weeds, grass, or other rank or noxious vegetation as defined in this
chapter to grow to a height exceeding 12 inches on their real estate located
within the geographic limits of town, and the vegetation exceeding the height
are hereby declared to be a nuisance. Any property owner who fails to remove
the weeds, grass, or other rank vegetation shall be deemed in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 3-1998, passed 6-15-1998)
Penalty, see § 10.99 
§ 99.03 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Notification in writing of a property in violation of this chapter will be
given to the Town Manager, or designated employee, by any town employee or
private citizen. The Town Manager will cause a view of the property to be made
by a designated employee. Upon verification of the offense, the Town Manager,
or designated employee, will inform the Clerk-Treasurer of the property in
violation. Upon receipt of the notice from the Town Manager, the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town shall issue a five-day Notice of Violation in writing to
any property owner in violation of this chapter. The issuance of one Notice of
Violation to a property owner in violation of this chapter in a calendar year
shall serve as notice for that property for the full calendar year. In the
event that the property owner resides within the corporate limits of the town,
the Notice of Violation shall be served by:
   (A)   An officer of the town’s law enforcement department upon the property
owner; or
   (B)   By certified or registered mail addressed to the property owner’s
address as shown on the records of the Wayne County Treasurer’s Office, Wayne
County, Indiana. In the event the property owner does not reside within the
corporate limits of the town, to the best knowledge of the town, the Notice of
Violation shall be served by certified or registered mail addressed to the
property owner's address as shown on the records of the Wayne County
Treasurer’s Office, Wayne County, Indiana. The Notice of Violation shall demand
the abatement of the nuisance and removal of the weeds, grass, detrimental
plants or other rank or noxious vegetation, as specified in the Notice of
Violation, by the property owner within five days from the date of service of
the Notice of Violation if by personal service or five days from the date of
mailing the Notice of Violation, whichever is applicable.
(Ord. 3-1998, passed 6-15-1998; Am. Ord. 3-2007, passed 5-7-2007; Am. Ord. 12-
2009, passed 11-17-2009)
§ 99.04 FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE; COST OF REMOVAL; LIEN.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Manager, or a designated employee, will determine after
the expiration of the aforementioned five day notice if there has been
compliance with the Notice of Violation to abate the nuisance. If the property
owner so served does not abate the nuisance and fails to remove the specified
weeds, grass, detrimental plants or other rank or noxious vegetation on their
property within the aforementioned five days, the town shall have the right to
cut and remove the weeds, grass, detrimental plants or other rank or noxious
vegetation specified in the Notice of Violation.
      (2)   The Town Manager, or designated employee, shall cause the cutting
and removal of such to be done and forward information to the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town for preparation of a certified statement of the actual costs
incurred for such cutting and removal by the town, either by using its own
employees or an independent contractor.
   (B)   Thereupon the Clerk-Treasurer shall have the statement delivered to
the property owner by the town's law enforcement department or by certified or
registered mail addressed to the property owner's address shown on the records
of the Wayne County Treasurer.
   (C)   In the event the property owner disputes the Notice of Violation
issued under this chapter or a certified statement of the cutting and removal
costs, such property owner may file a written appeal with the Town Council for
rescission or adjustment of such notice or certified statement within five days
after the date of such notice or certified statement.
   (D)   Upon failure of the property owner to pay the certified statement
issued under this chapter within ten days as set forth in this chapter, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall file a certified copy of the statement of actual costs
for the cutting and removal of such vegetation with the Office of the Wayne
County Auditor for placement of the amount due upon the tax duplicate of the
property owner for the collection as delinquent taxes are collected and
disbursed to the general fund of the Town of Hagerstown as provided by I.C. 36-
7-10.1-4.
(Ord. 3-1998, passed 6-15-1998; Am. Ord. 3-2007, passed 5-7-2007; Am. Ord. 12-
2009, passed 11-17-2009)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   ADVERTISING AND HANDBILLS
   
111.   PLUMBERS
   
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
   
113.   LIQUOR RETAILERS
   
114.   CABLE REGULATIONS
   
115.   PROCEDURE FOR TAX ABATEMENT
CHAPTER 110: ADVERTISING AND HANDBILLS
Section
Handbill Distributors
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Application for license; fee
   
110.03   Exception for farmers
   
110.99   Penalty
HANDBILL DISTRIBUTORS
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a resident or a nonresident of
Jefferson Township, who is employed by a person, firm, or corporation whose
place of business is outside of Jefferson Township, to pass, post, distribute,
or circulate handbills or posters bearing advertising upon the streets, alleys,
or commons of the town, without obtaining a license.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 13) (Ord. 1-1933, passed 1-16-1933)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   Any person, persons, firm, or corporation, whose residence or place of
business is outside of Jefferson Township, desiring to pass, post, distribute,
or circulate handbills or posters within the corporate limits of the town shall
apply to the Clerk-Treasurer for a license and pay the following license fee:
for each day $10, but no license shall be issued for a period longer than one
day and no license shall be transferable.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 14) (Ord. 1-1933, passed 1-16-1933)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.03 EXCEPTION FOR FARMERS.
   This chapter does not prevent farmers from posting or passing sales bills
which advertise for sale their own personal property or real estate.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 15) (Ord. 1-1933, passed 1-16-1933)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1-1933, passed 1-16-1933 Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 111: PLUMBERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Compliance with rules of State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission
   
111.03   Lights and guards at openings or obstructions
   
111.04   Disturbance of underground structures or public works
   
111.05   Excavations to be back-filled
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLUMBER. Any person, company, or corporation engaged, either wholly or in
part, in the business of laying, fitting, connecting, and repairing natural or
artificial gas pipes or mains, water pipes or mains, or sewerage pipes or
drains, or in the doing of anything properly belonging to the work.
   PLUMBING. The business of plumbing as engaged in by a plumber.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 3) (Ord. 2-1953, passed 6-15-1953)
§ 111.02 COMPLIANCE WITH RULES OF STATE FIRE PREVENTION AND BUILDING SAFETY
COMMISSION.
   A plumber shall, in the performance of his or her occupation in the town,
comply with the approved rules and regulations of the State Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission and all approved revisions of that body; a copy of
these rules and regulations shall be filed at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
for inspection.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 5) (Ord. 2-1953, passed 6-15-1953)
Penalty, see § 111.99
Statutory reference:
   Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, see I.C. 22-12-1-1 et seq.
through 22-15-7-1 et seq.
§ 111.03 LIGHTS AND GUARDS AT OPENINGS OR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It is the duty of all town employees and officials to report any
observation of trenches which are improperly bridged and to report whether or
not proper lights or warnings are placed at all openings or obstructions; town
employees and officials must also immediately notify the licensee of the
dereliction, and if unable to find the proper parties, or if, when the proper
parties are notified, the defect is not immediately remedied, to arrange for
the placement of proper lights and guards.
   (B)   These reported acts of neglect shall be placed before the Town Council
for disposition.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 6) (Ord. 2-1953, passed 6-15-1953)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.04 DISTURBANCE OF UNDERGROUND STRUCTURES OR PUBLIC WORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for a plumber, his or her or its agents or employees,
or any of them, in the prosecution of business, or in the laying of pipes,
mains, conduits, or drains, or other apparatus, or in the excavation of the
soil of any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, lanes, or public ground, to
displace, disturb, deface, or endanger any water main or sewer drain in the
town, or any other public work, without the consent of the Town Council, or any
of the pipes, mains, conduits, or other subterranean structures, or cables of
any other person or company without the consent of the person or company, and
shall be liable and pay to the town the necessary cost of repairs made
necessary by the interference and disturbance.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 7) (Am. Ord. 3-1969, passed 3-17-1969)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.05 EXCAVATIONS TO BE BACK-FILLED.
   (A)   Generally. All excavations shall be back-filled in accordance with the
following procedures.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   No extremely wet or muddy back-fill material shall be used. If
these conditions exist, gravel shall be used.
      (2)   Back-fill material will be returned to excavation in not more than
12-inch layers and each layer compacted by hand tamp, pneumatic tamper, or
similar device before the next layer is added.
      (3)   The water-jet method of tunneling may be used under a sidewalk,
curb, gutter, or other place of tunneling.
      (4)   Excavation shall be back-filled to a point two inches above the
existing street level.
      (5)   The Utilities Superintendent shall be notified by the contractor
before back-filling is started and he or she shall be responsible for the
execution of these regulations.
         (a)   The Superintendent shall inspect back-filling during and at the
finish of back-fill with a probe rod or any compaction indicator at his or her
disposal.
         (b)   The Superintendent shall have the right to order reexcavation
and refill if compaction does not comply with these regulations.
      (6)   The contractor shall maintain the two inches above street-level
grade of excavation for a period of 30 days.
(Ord. 3-1969, passed 3-17-1969)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2-1953, passed 6-15-1953; Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application
   
112.04   Bond and license fee
   
112.05   Issuance
   
112.06   Use of license; surrender
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT or TRANSIENT SOLICITOR, PEDDLER, HAWKER, SALESPERSON, or VENDOR.
Any person who comes into the town for the sole purpose of selling, or
attempting to sell or solicit orders for the purchase of, any goods, wares,
merchandise, services, magazines, papers, books and pamphlets, or subscriptions
thereto, by going on private property and residences within the town without
invitation from the owner or occupant or any person who sells, attempts to
sell, offers to sell, or displays for sale any goods, merchandise, or services
from a mobile or otherwise temporary vehicle or structure located within the
corporate limits of the town; however, this definition does not include any
person who has resided in the town for more than six months continuously
immediately preceding any of the activities described above, or any person who
is a resident householder or a member of the family of a resident householder
residing in a household in the town; or one who offers to sell any food or
foodstuffs from house to house; nor any person soliciting sales to or orders
from resident merchants of the town, nor any student regularly enrolled in the
Nettle Creek School System.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 10) (Ord. 2-1962, passed 11-19-1962)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any itinerant or transient solicitors, peddlers,
hawkers, salespeople, or other vendors to sell or offer to sell from house to
house or from a mobile or otherwise temporary vehicle or structure in the town
any goods, wares, merchandise, services, magazines, papers, books and
pamphlets, or subscriptions thereto, without having obtained a license.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 9) (Ord. 2-1962, passed 11-19-1962; Am. Ord. 2-1984,
passed 5-7-1984)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each itinerant or transient solicitor, peddler, hawker, salesperson,
or other vendor shall, prior to engaging in sales or related activities, apply
to the Clerk-Treasurer for a license to do so.
   (B)   Each applicant shall furnish to the Clerk-Treasurer the following
information:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Permanent address;
      (3)   Local address;
      (4)   Date and place of birth;
      (5)   Merchandise or produce to be sold;
      (6)   Name and address of employer; and
      (7)   Name and address of immediate supervisor.
(Ord. 2-1962, passed 11-19-1962)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.04 BOND AND LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The applicant shall furnish a surety bond, acceptable to the Clerk-
Treasurer, in the sum of $2,000, payable to the town for the protection of the
public and conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her obligations.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer the following license
fee: for one day, $10; for one week, $25; for one month, $50; provided, no
license shall be issued for longer than one month. The license shall be
nontransferable.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 11) (Ord. 2-1962, passed 11-19-1962)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.05 ISSUANCE.
   Upon the fulfillment of §§
112.03 and
112.04, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue over his or her signature and the seal
of the town a license which shall contain the information set forth in §
112.03.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 11) (Ord. 2-1962, passed 11-19-1962)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.06 USE OF LICENSE; SURRENDER.
   The licensee is required to carry the license on his or her person while
engaged in business and to surrender it on his or her departure from the town
or upon the expiration of the license period, whichever occurs first.
(1963 Code, Ch. 8, § 11) (Ord. 2-1962, passed 11-19-1962)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2-1962, passed 11-19-1962; Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 113: LIQUOR RETAILERS
Section
   
113.01   Issuance of liquor retailers’ permits
§ 113.01 ISSUANCE OF LIQUOR RETAILERS’ PERMITS.
   The consent of the town is given to the proper state legal authorities to
issue liquor retailers’ permits for the sale of alcoholic, spirituous beverages
to applicants otherwise duly qualified to premises within the town.
(Ord. 1-1976, passed 3-1-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Issuance of retailers’ and dealers’ permits, see I.C. 7.1-3-19-1 through
7.1-3-19-16
CHAPTER 114: CABLE REGULATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Rate regulations
§ 114.01 RATE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town will adhere to the FCC Rate Regulations in its regulation of
the Basic Service Rates and Charges of the company and any other cable
television system that now or in the future operates in the town, where in the
town’s opinion no effective competition exists among cable television
operators, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions in the
franchise.
   (B)   In connection with the regulation, the town will ensure a reasonable
opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties.
   (C)   The Town Council, or its authorized designee, is authorized to execute
on behalf of the town and file with the FCC the certification forms or other
instruments as are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC Rate Regulations
in order to enable the town to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 11-1-1993)
CHAPTER 115: PROCEDURE FOR TAX ABATEMENT
Section
   
115.01   Statement of Benefits
   
115.02   Compliance with Statement of Benefits
   
115.03   General
§ 115.01 STATEMENT OF BENEFITS.
   (A)   The applicant’s Statement of Benefits (SB1) shall be made available to
the Town Council for a minimum of 45 days in order that it may be processed.
   (B)   In conjunction with the SB1, applicant shall simultaneously file
supporting information required under Hagerstown form HSB1.
   (C)   The Town Council shall cause an investigation into the facts as set
forth in the SB1 and HSB1.
   (D)   The person(s) or entities named by the Town Council shall make the
investigation and shall verify the information contained in the SB1 and HSB1
applications, maintaining lawful confidentiality required of certain specific
information that release to the public at large compromises the applicant’s
operation.
   (E)   The person(s) or entities making the investigation shall advise the
Town Council of their findings and advise the Town Council of a recommended
course of action, prior to any action being taken by the Town Council.
   (F)   The Town Council shall consider the following factors in making it’s
required findings of beneficial impact:
      (1)   Average wage paid to employees, including fringe benefits;
      (2)   Health benefits paid to employees;
      (3)   Potential for upward mobility of the jobs to be created or retained
by the applicant; and
      (4)   Applicant’s level of commitment and involvement in the Hagerstown
community.
   (G)   In the event that the Town Council denies a tax abatement, in addition
to the Town Council denying same during a public hearing, the applicant shall
be notified in writing that the Town Council did not make the required findings
of fact provided in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1 et seq.
   (H)   In the event that the town approves the taxpayer applicant’s SB1,
Council shall pass a resolution making the necessary findings of fact required
by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1 et seq. Further, the resolution shall contain the following:
      (1)   Reference to the resolution number of the resolution establishing
the taxpayer applicant’s area as an Economic Revitalization Area;
      (2)   The established period or term of the abatement set forth in the
referenced resolution establishing the area as an Economic Revitalization Area;
or in the event that the referenced resolution contains no specific term, the
term for which the Town Council is granting the abatement pursuant to the
applicable terms provided by statute at the time of the passage; and
      (3)   Upon passage of the above, Town Council will provide the taxpayer
applicant a copy of the resolution whereby the Statement of Benefits has been
approved, and a copy of the resolution which established the area as an
Economic Revitalization Area, in the event that the taxpayer applicant needs
the documents to submit with the deduction application.
   (I)   Commencing in 1999, a representative number, but no less than 5% of
all outstanding owners who have previously secured approved the Statement of
Benefits from the Town Council, and are still in the period of their tax
abatement phase-ins, may be randomly selected by the Town administration, and
the owner’s information regarding job creation and/or retention, and applicable
wages and benefits, shall be audited by the Town administration as part of
assuring continued compliance with the Statement of Benefits. And further, any
written complaints received in regard to the alleged noncompliance of a
specific business shall be subject to investigation and audit. To the extent
any nonconforming information is found, the Town Council shall be enabled to
take any and all action as authorized by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
   (J)   In order to implement and/or advise applicants of the guidelines set
fort herein, an addendum to the Statement of Benefits form SB1, known as HSB1,
a copy of which is incorporated by reference and attached to Ordinance 3-1999,
shall be required of all applicants with their statements of benefits
applications. Two copies of the HSB1 form are available for public inspection
at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The HSB1 form, and any worksheet related
thereto, may be amended from time to time as required by statute or at the
discretion of the Town Council. In the event that an SB1 form is submitted
without an accompanying HSB1 form, or in the event the documents are not
completely filled out, the town shall notify and/or return the form(s) to the
taxpayer applicant, informing the taxpayer applicant of the need for the HSB1
form or the need for additional information.
(Ord. 3-1999, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 115.02 COMPLIANCE WITH STATEMENT OF BENEFITS.
   (A)   Upon receiving a Compliance with Statement of Benefits form from a
property owner (Form CF-1), the Town Council shall, as soon as possible, cause
an investigation into the facts to determine whether or not the property owner
has substantially complied with the Statement of Benefits.
   (B)   The person(s) or entities named by the Town Council shall make the
investigation and shall verify the appropriate information to determine whether
or not the property owner is in substantial compliance, maintaining
confidentiality required as to certain specific information, of which release
to the public at large would compromise the property owner’s operation.
   (C)   The person(s) or entities making the investigation shall advise the
Town Council of their findings and advise the Town Council of a recommended
course of action.
   (D)   Within 45 days of receiving the Compliance with Statement of Benefits
from a property owner (Form CF-1), and in the event that the Town Council
determines that the property owner is in substantial compliance, Town Council
may complete the CF-1 form, indicating the compliance.
   (E)   Within 45 days of receiving the Compliance with Statement of Benefits
form from a property owner (Form CF-1), and in the event that the Town Council
determines that the property owner is not in substantial compliance, the
property owner shall be provided written notice pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-
5.9. The notice shall include the reasons for the determination and the date,
time, and place of a hearing to be conducted by the Town Council. If a notice
is mailed to a property owner for new manufacturing equipment, a copy of the
written notice shall be sent to the State Board of Tax Commissioners.
   (F)   At any hearing held pursuant to division (E) above, the Town Council
shall conduct the hearing for the purpose(s) set forth and in conformance with
I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-5.9.
   (G)   Based on the information presented at the aforementioned hearing, the
Town Council shall determine whether or not the property owner has made
reasonable effort to substantially comply with the Statement of Benefits.
   (H)   In the event that the Town Council determines that the property owner
has not made reasonable effort to comply with the Statement of Benefits, the
Town Council shall adopt a resolution terminating the property owner’s
deduction. The Town Council shall mail a certified copy of the resolution to:
the property owner; the County Auditor; and the State Board of Tax
Commissioners if the deduction was granted under I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4.5.
(Ord. 3-1999, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 115.03 GENERAL.
   All provisions or sections of this chapter shall be in conformance with and
not in conflict with I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq., including any amendments
thereto. Any provision found to be in conflict with the statute shall be deemed
amended to conform with the statute.
(Ord. 3-1999, passed 8-2-1999)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   PERSONS AND PROPERTY
   
131.   PUBLIC PEACE
CHAPTER 130: PERSONS AND PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Reserved
   
130.02   Possession of explosives
   
130.03   Distribution of handbills, advertisements, or other circulars
   
130.04   Killing or injuring birds
   
130.05   Throwing or shooting missiles
   
130.06   Getting on or off moving trains
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 RESERVED.
§ 130.02 POSSESSION OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to have or keep
within the limits of the town any nitroglycerin, dynamite, or other dangerous
explosive.
(1963 Code, Ch. 5, § 6) (Ord. 90-1899, passed 3-20-1899)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS, ADVERTISEMENTS, OR OTHER CIRCULARS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, or deposit in or
on any street, alley, gutter, porch, yard, lot, or common within the limits of
the town any handbill, advertisement, circular, or other paper or to tack or
fasten any number of handbills, advertisements, circulars, or other papers to
any pole, post, fence, building, or other object on the outside of any building
or house.
   (B)   Any person licensed to circulate or distribute handbills,
advertisements, or other papers among the inhabitants of the town shall so
circulate, distribute, place, and deposit them in stores, houses, or buildings
in such manner that they are not blown and scattered over and on the streets,
gutters, alleys, lots, yards, and commons of the town.
   (C)   This section does not prevent the posting of legal notices required by
law to be posted in public places nor the posting up of ordinary show bills and
notices of amusement where these are securely posted or fastened in single
sheets to billboards or other permanent objects.
(1963 Code, Ch. 5, § 7) (Ord. 110-1911, passed 2-6-1911)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.04 KILLING OR INJURING BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or injure, or pursue with intent
so to do, any turtledove, meadowlark, robin, mockingbird, wren, redbird,
martin, thrush, swallow, oriole, yellowhammer, catbird, or peewee, or to
destroy or disturb the eggs or the young of these birds.
(1963 Code, Ch. 5, § 8) (Ord. 34-1878, passed 4-15-1878)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.05 THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or shoot stones, clubs, shot,
or any objects or missiles, either with hand, sling, or other instrument for
the purpose of throwing or shooting at any person or animal or at any building
or other property, or to throw or shoot objects or missiles in like manner upon
any of the streets or alleys within the limits of the town.
(1963 Code, Ch. 5, § 9) (Ord. 20-1878, passed 4-15-1878; Am. Ord. 34-1878,
passed 4-15-1878)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.06 GETTING ON OR OFF MOVING TRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than passengers or employees to
get on or off or to swing or hang on the outside of any railroad engine or car
while it is in motion or switching within the corporate limits of the town.
(1963 Code, Ch. 5, § 10) (Ord. 47-1879, passed 12-15-1879)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Am. Ord. 8-2007, passed - -)
CHAPTER 131: PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
131.01   Curfew for persons under 18 years of age
   
131.02   Defenses to curfew violations
   
131.03   Noise control
   
131.04   Loitering prohibited
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 CURFEW FOR PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   Curfew violations; children 15 through 17 years of age. It is a curfew
violation for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
   (B)   Right to detain or take custody of child for violation of division
(A). A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of division (A) above unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated said division (A); and
      (2)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
   (C)   Curfew violations; children less than 15 years of age. It is a curfew
violation for a child less than 15 years of age to be in a public place after
11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   Right to detain or take custody of child for violation of division
(C). A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of division (C) above unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated said division (C); and
      (2)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
   (E)   Intent of town; amendments to Indiana Code.
      (1)   It is the intent of the Town, by adoption of §
131.01, to incorporate the applicable provisions of I.C. 31-37-3, including any
amendments thereto and future recodifications thereof.
      (2)   It is the intent of the Town that this section shall be in
conformance with and not in conflict with I.C. 31-37-3, including any
amendments thereto and future recodifications thereof. Any provision(s) found
to be in conflict with the Indiana Code shall be deemed amended to conform to
the statute. This section is passed pursuant to I.C. 31-37-3 to govern curfew
violations within the town.
      (3)   To the extent possible under law, any future amendment(s) and/or
recodification(s) of the applicable Indiana Code cited above in this section,
shall be adopted by the passage of this section, or any amendment(s) thereto,
and this section would be amended, without further action, to reflect a change
(s) in the citation(s) to said Indiana Code when said updates, amendments, and/
or recodifications occur and are appropriate, provided that said updates,
amendments, and/or recodifications of the applicable section of Indiana Code do
not alter the purpose of this section.
(1963 Code, Ch. 5, § 11) (Ord. 2-1957, passed 5-20-1957; Am. Ord. 5-2007,
passed 5-7-2007)
Penalty, see § 131.99
Statutory reference:
   Curfews-local option, see I.C. 31-30
§ 131.02 DEFENSES TO CURFEW VIOLATIONS .
   (A)   Emancipation of child. It is a defense to a violation under §
131.01 that the child was emancipated:
      (1)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
      (2)   By virtue of having married; or
      (3)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction; at
the time that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct.
   (B)   Defenses to child engaging in prohibited conduct. It is a defense to a
violation under §
131.01 that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child's parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child's parent, guardian,
or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child's rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution of
Article 1, Section 31 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, or both,
such as freedom of speech and the right of assembly; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision
of one or more adults;
      (4)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child's parent, guardian, or custodian; or
      (5)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside Indiana to another location outside Indiana.
   (C)   Intent of town; amendments to Indiana Code.
      (1)   It is the intent of the town, by adoption of §
131.02, to incorporate the applicable provisions of I.C. 31-37-3, including any
amendments thereto and future recodifications thereof.
      (2)   It is the intent of the town that this section shall be in
conformance with and not in conflict with I.C. 31-37-3, including any
amendments thereto and future recodifications thereof. Any provision(s) found
to be in conflict with the Indiana Code shall be deemed amended to conform to
the statute. This section is passed pursuant to I.C. 31-37-3 to govern curfew
violations within the town.
      (3)   To the extent possible under law, any future amendment(s) and/or
recodification(s) of the applicable Indiana Code cited above in this section,
shall be adopted by the passage of this section, or any amendment(s) thereto,
and this section would be amended, without further action, to reflect a change
(s) in the citation(s) to said Indiana Code when said updates, amendments, and/
or recodifications occur and are appropriate, provided that said updates,
amendments, and/or recodifications of the applicable section of Indiana Code do
not alter the purpose of this section.
(1963 Code, Ch. 5, § 12) (Ord. 2-1957, passed 5-20-1957; Am. Ord. 5-2007,
passed 5-7-2007)
Penalty, see § 131.99
Statutory reference:
   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor, see I.C. 35-46-1-8
§ 131.03 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEVICE. Any radio, tape recorder/player, compact disc player, stereo
system, record player, television or other electronic or mechanical device
capable of producing or reproducing any sound, noise, musical rhythm or vocal
sound.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle, such as, but not limited to automobiles,
trucks, motorcycles or any other vehicles propelled or operated by means of
power.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any noise, musical sound, musical rhythm or any other
sound that is electronically amplified or broadcast in any manner that can be
heard by the human ear.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or PUBLIC PLACE. Includes, but is not limited to, any
avenue, street, road, alley, easement, parkway, highway, sidewalk, park or
other public place that is owned or controlled by any governmental entity.
   (B)   Offense.
      (1)   No person, corporation, entity, or landowner shall permit any noise
to be generated or produced which is plainly audible from the device producing
the noise for more than two minutes per hour, when measured at least ten feet
from the property line of the property where such sound originates.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful within the municipal limits of the town, for
any device within or attached to any motor vehicle to be utilized in or at such
a level so as to be plainly audible at a distance greater than 40 feet from
said device, or which causes a distraction to any person.
      (3)   The use and operation of lawn mowers, weed eaters, blowers, garden
tractors, construction and repair equipment, go-carts, generators and power
tools and the like, shall be limited to the following hours: between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. May 15th to September 15th, and 7:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m. September 16th to May 14th only.
   (C)   Exceptions. The following are exempted from the provisions of this
section:
      (1)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles or sirens
(including tornado sirens).
      (2)   Burglar and car alarms and other warning devices, when properly
installed, providing the cause for such alarm or warning device sound is
investigated and turned off within a reasonable period of time.
      (3)   Town or other governmental entity sanctioned parades, festivals,
carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concert performances, band and drum corps
performances, artistic performances and the like, as well as any rehearsals for
same.
      (4)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the testing of such equipment, or for the
performance of emergency construction, repair or other work.
      (5)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, and any other
applicable law, rule or regulation, those sounds associated with motor vehicles
lawfully operating on town, county, state, and federal streets and highways.
      (6)   Sounds associated with the operation of aircraft or snow removal
equipment.
      (7)   Sounds emitted by emergency generators in the event of power
failure, periodic testing and maintenance of which shall adhere to the
limitations set forth in division (B) above.
      (8)   Sounds emitted by construction/road work approved by the town or
other governmental entity.
      (9)   Train horns as required by law.
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall have
committed an offense subject to the jurisdiction of the Ordinance Violation
Bureau and shall be punished accordingly, with each violation being a separate
and distinct violation and subject to being penalized accordingly. The schedule
of fines payable through the Ordinance Violation Bureau shall provide for an
increasing fine for subsequent offenses.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than:
 
First offense                  Up to $50
Second offense                 Up to $100
Third offense                  Up to $250
Fourth and subsequent offenses Up to $500
 
   (E)   Enforcement. Citations for violation of this section may be issued by
any sworn member of the Police Department.
(Ord. 1-2015, passed 2- -2015)
§ 131.04 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity.
   (B)   Circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm is
warranted include:
      (1)   The fact the actor takes flight upon appearance of a peace officer;
      (2)   Refuses to identify himself or herself; or
      (3)   Manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.
   (C)   Unless flight by the actor or other circumstances makes it
impracticable, a peace officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the actor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted, by requesting him or her to identify himself or herself
and explain his or her presence and conduct.
   (D)   No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the
officer did not comply with division (C) above, or if it appears at the trial
that the explanation given by the actor was true and, if believed by the peace
officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm.
(Ord. 5-1972, passed 9-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who commits a curfew violation under §§
131.01 or
131.02 shall be punished in accordance with I.C. 31-37-1 et seq. Any person
guilty of the offenses prohibited in §
131.03 shall be fined not exceeding $10 for each and every offense.
(Am. Ord. 5-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
   (B)   Violation of §
131.04 shall be a misdemeanor and any person violating this section shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $20 nor more than $50.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   PLANNING
   
151.   ZONING CODE
   
152.   RESERVED
   
153.   BUILDING CODE
   
154.   RESERVED
   
155.   THOROUGHFARE PLAN
   
156.   ELECTRICAL PROVISIONS
   
157.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
   
158.   BUILDING COMMISSIONER
   
159.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 150: PLANNING
Section
Master Plan
   
150.01   Designation of Master Plan
   
150.02   Purpose of Plan
   
150.03   Content of Plan
   
150.04   Certain matters to conform to Master Plan
   
150.05   General policy of Master Plan to be guide
   
150.06   Power of Town Plan Commission
   
150.07   Master Plan available for public inspection
   
150.08   Building Commissioner, Clerk-Treasurer to keep copies of Plan for
public inspection
   
150.09   Manner of amendment
Plan Commission
   
150.15   Creation; designation
   
150.16   Membership; terms; appointment
   
150.17   Powers and duties
Urban Development Areas
   
150.25   Hagerstown Industrial Park
Numbering of Houses and Structures
   
150.35   Conformity with county uniform numbering system
   
150.36   Administration
   
150.37   Compliance with Master Plan
   
150.38   Appeals
   
150.99   Penalty
MASTER PLAN
§ 150.01 DESIGNATION OF MASTER PLAN.
   This chapter, as amended, shall be referred to as the Master Plan of
Hagerstown, Indiana.
(Ord. 5-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.02 PURPOSE OF PLAN.
   The purpose of the Master Plan is to establish a single, unified body of
information consisting of all plans, reports, and ordinances plus supplemental
details that deal with the subjects of planning and zoning, as a comprehensive
guide to the future growth and development of the town and its environs.
(Ord. 5-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.03 CONTENT OF PLAN.
   (A)   The Master Plan consists of maps, charts, reports, and ordinances
concerning zoning, subdivision control, thoroughfares, parking, school, park,
recreation, and public areas, and a separate plan entitled Comprehensive
Development Plan as well as other related subjects.
   (B)   The following plans, as amended, reflect the policy of the town with
respect to the present and future development of land uses concerning the
subjects set forth above, and are a part of this plan:
      (1)   Comprehensive Development Plan, Town of Hagerstown, 1974, sheet one
of two; and
      (2)   Comprehensive Development Plan, Jurisdictional Area, Hagerstown,
Indiana, 1974, sheet two of two.
(Ord. 5-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.04 CERTAIN MATTERS TO CONFORM TO MASTER PLAN.
   The layout, location, relocation, extension, or widening of thoroughfares,
the general design of neighborhoods and their street patterns, the use of land,
and the location of sites for schools, parks, recreation, and other public
uses, shopping centers, off-street parking lots, and community facilities shall
conform to the principles, policies, and provisions of the plan.
(Ord. 5-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.05 GENERAL POLICY OF MASTER PLAN TO BE GUIDE.
   The Town Council and all municipal boards, commissions, and all other
agencies of the town shall be guided by and give consideration to the general
policy and pattern of development set out in the Master Plan prior to the
authorization, construction, alteration, or abandonment of any public
installation, required or necessitated in the interest of the physical
development of the town and its environs.
(Ord. 5-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.06 POWER OF TOWN PLAN COMMISSION.
   The Town Plan Commission shall from time to time consider and review
proposals with respect to changes and amendments in the Master Plan and, upon
conclusion of their consideration including a public hearing thereon, shall
certify to the Town Council reports on these matters.
(Ord. 5-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.07 MASTER PLAN AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   The maps, charts, plans, reports, and ordinances which comprise the Master
Plan are on file in the office of the Building Commissioner and the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer in the Town Hall, and are available for public inspection
during all regular office hours.
(Ord. 5-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.08 BUILDING COMMISSIONER, CLERK-TREASURER TO KEEP COPIES OF PLAN FOR
PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   The Building Commissioner and the Clerk-Treasurer are required to keep on
file for public inspection, during all regular office hours, two copies of the
Master Plan, including maps, charts, reports, and ordinances.
(Ord. 5-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.09 MANNER OF AMENDMENT.
   The Master Plan may be amended from time to time according to the procedure
set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-509 through 36-7-4-511, as amended, except that, if
the Town Council desires an amendment, it may direct the Town Plan Commission
to prepare an amendment and submit it to a public hearing within 60 days after
formal written request by the Town Council.
(Ord. 5-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
Penalty, see § 150.99
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 150.15 CREATION; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Advisory Plan Commission for the town for
the purpose of promoting the orderly development of the governmental units and
environs of the town.
(1963 Code, Ch. 13, Part 1, § 1)
   (B)   The Commission shall be known as the Hagerstown Advisory Plan
Commission.
(1963 Code, Ch. 13, Part 1, § 3)
(Ord. 1-1957, passed - -; Am. Ord. 4-2011, passed 11-21-2011)
§ 150.16 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Hagerstown Advisory Plan Commission shall consist of nine members,
three of whom shall be persons in the town government and appointed by the
municipal legislative body, and four of whom shall be citizen members, not more
than two of whom shall be members of the same political party and appointed by
the municipal executive, and, two members of whom shall reside in the
unincorporated, two-mile jurisdictional territory, not of the same political
party and appointed by the executive of the county.
   (B)   The terms of two of the citizen members shall expire on 1-1-1960, and
the terms of the remaining two citizen members shall expire on 1-1-1961.
Thereafter, as the terms expire, each new appointment shall be for a term of
four years. The terms of the members who are in the town government shall
expire with the expiration of office in the government.
   (C)   All members shall be appointed as provided for in I.C. 36-7-4-207, and
all acts and laws amendatory and supplemental thereto.
(1963 Code, Ch. 13, Part 1, § 2) (Ord. 1-1957, passed - -; Am. Ord. 4-2011,
passed 11-21-2011)
§ 150.17 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall have all the rights, duties, obligations, and
powers conferred upon plan commissions under and by the terms and provisions of
I.C. 36-7-4-101 et seq., and all acts and laws amendatory and supplemental
thereto, and this subchapter shall be construed so as to give full force and
effect to the spirit and the letter of I.C. 36-7-4-101 et seq., and all laws
and acts amendatory and supplemental thereto.
(1963 Code, Ch. 13, Part 1, § 4) (Ord. 1-1957, passed - -)
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AREAS
§ 150.25 HAGERSTOWN INDUSTRIAL PARK.
   (A)   The Town Council acquired, developed, and now owns a parcel of real
estate within the town as described in deed record book 381 at page 450 in the
office of the Wayne County Recorder. Only one lot in one section of the
industrial park development has been sold and is used as a waste compaction
station. The Town Council finds that since acquisition of the area by the town
on 12-8-1975 there has been a lack of development in the industrial park area,
a cessation of growth, and a general decline in the economy affecting further
establishment of industrial use of the park without further stimulation and
encouragement by appropriate governmental action available under state law to
grant tax abatement inducements to attract new or expanded industrial
development.
   (B)   The Town Council now finds that the part of the Hagerstown Industrial
Park now owned by the town as described in that certain deed from Dana
Corporation to the town dated 12-8-1975 and recorded in deed record book 381 at
page 450 of the records of the Wayne County Recorder, excepting therefrom that
portion of Section one of the real estate previously conveyed to Hagerstown
Industrial Complex, Inc., has become impossible of normal development because
of a lack of development and cessation of growth and is an Urban Development
Area within the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq. and those persons
hereafter acquiring parcels of land in the described Hagerstown Industrial Park
for closed industrial use shall be eligible to make application for the
property tax relief as is available under Indiana law.
(Res. 2-1983, passed l-19-1983)
NUMBERING OF HOUSES AND STRUCTURES
§ 150.35 CONFORMITY WITH COUNTY UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   Houses and structures in the jurisdictional area under the town’s Master
Plan and zoning code outside of the town limits shall be numbered or renumbered
in conformity with the uniform numbering system as established by the County
Board of Commissioners by existing ordinance or by amendment or additional
ordinance hereafter.
(Ord. 3-1987, passed 9-21-1987)
§ 150.36 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Building Commissioner shall act as the liaison official for the
town to cooperate and implement the numbering and renumbering of houses and
structures as issued by the administrative office of the County Plan Department
within the jurisdictional area of the town zoning code outside of the town
limits. Building permits issued by the Building Commissioner shall show
compliance with the uniform numbering system, and require such of any
applicant.
(Ord. 3-1987, passed 9-21-1987)
§ 150.37 COMPLIANCE WITH MASTER PLAN.
   This subchapter shall become a part of the Master Plan, and the Hagerstown
Advisory Plan Commission shall implement this subchapter with consideration of
the citizens in the jurisdictional area outside of the town, to achieve
cooperation with and implementation of the county uniform numbering system.
(Ord. 3-1987, passed 9-21-1987; Am. Ord. 4-2011, passed 11-21-2011)
§ 150.38 APPEALS.
   All appeals filed by citizens and applicants in the jurisdictional area
governed by the town zoning code, with respect to renumbering or numbering of
houses and structures under this subchapter, shall be heard by the Hagerstown
Advisory Plan Commission, whose determination in such matters shall be final,
subject to appeal rights therefrom, irrespective of assigned numbers
recommended by the County Plan Department, where the numbers would violate the
intent and spirit of the town’s Master Plan and zoning code.
(Ord. 3-1987, passed 9-21-1987; Am. Ord. 4-2011, passed 11-21-2011)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Action on the violation of any provision of this chapter and the right of
injunction against a violation shall be as provided by I.C. 36-7-4-100 et seq.
and all amending acts.
(Ord. 5-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Hagerstown, Indiana, is hereby adopted
by reference as if set forth in full herein. The full text of the zoning
ordinance is available to the public: 1) in the Office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer during regular office hours; or 2) on the town website
www.hagerstown.in.gov.
(Ord. 7-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 152: RESERVED
CHAPTER 153: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Requirements
   
153.01   Short title
   
153.02   Purpose
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Scope
   
153.05   Authority
   
153.06   Severability
   
153.07   Effect of adoption on prior ordinances
   
153.08   Fees
Building Permits
   
153.09   Building permit required
   
153.10   Application for building permit
   
153.11   Issuance of building permit
   
153.12   Certificate of occupancy
Investigations and Inspections of Construction Activities
   
153.13   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
153.14   Inspections by Fire Department
   
153.15   Licensing of plumbers
Enforcement and Penalties
   
153.16   Withhold issuance of permits
   
153.17   Permit revocation
   
153.18   Stop-work order
   
153.19   Civil action
   
153.20   Monetary penalty
   
153.21   Right of appeal
Minimum Construction Standards
   
153.22   Adoption of rules by reference
   
153.23   Lifting devices located within a private residence
   
153.24   Mobile home foundations
Effective Date
   
153.25   Effective date
   
Appendix A: Fee Schedule for Building Code Permits
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the Building Code of Hagerstown, Indiana.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards to protect the
life, public safety, health, and general welfare of the citizens of Hagerstown,
Indiana, and shall be construed in such a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. As used in this chapter, includes individuals
employed by the Building Department that are authorized to represent the
Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4 has the following definition:
      (1)   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public.
            2.   Three or more tenants.
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in subdivision (1)(a) above.
         (c)   Outdoor stage equipment. This subdivision expires January 1,
2014.
         (d)   Any class of buildings or structures that the commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in subdivision
(1)(a) above, except buildings or structures described in subdivisions (3)
through (6) below.
      (2)   Subdivision (1)(a) includes a structure that contains three or more
condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Subdivision (1)(a) does not include a building or structure that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located.
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Subdivision (1)(a) does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Subdivision (1)(a) does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Subdivision (1)(a) does not include a structure that is intended to
be or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
         (c)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5 has the following definition:
      (1)   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or
structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in subdivision (1)(a)
above, such as a garage, barn, or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1) does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, means any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site.
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site wher it will be used.
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication, or fie or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class 2
structure at the site where it will be used.
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate, or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, means any part
of a building or other structure that is in whole or substantial part
fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly
at the building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or
another building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile
structure or a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16 has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. § 5402 as it existed on 1-1-2003. This definition is as follows:
MANUFACTURED HOME means a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements
and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification
required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with
the standards established under this 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq. and except that
the term shall not include any self-propelled recreational vehicle.
      MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, has the following
definition.
         (a)   Means any part of a fabricated unit that is designed to be:
            1.   Towed on its own chassis; and
            2.   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another structure.
         (b)   The term includes the following.
            1.   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing
purposes and subsequently expanded for additional capacity.
            2.   Two or more units that are separately towable but designed to
be joined into one integral unit.
      PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, means an individual, corporation,
limited liability company, partnership, unincorporated association, or
governmental entity.
      STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically
stated otherwise.
      VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, means any bridge that is
neither:
         (a)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
         (b)   A passageway for light vehicles; suspended between two or more
parts of a building or between two or more buildings.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this building code.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this building code shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this building code and the rules promulgated
by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any
construction related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure
not certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this building code is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
   (D)   The town, and in the event that extraterritorial jurisdiction has been
established by law, the contiguous unincorporated territory shown on a map
filed by the Town Plan Commission with the County Recorder of Wayne County,
constitutes the jurisdiction of the Town Plan Commission.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner of the town is authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, the town’s building
code, consistent with the authority and duties of the Building Commissioner as
established by the Town Code of the Town of Hagerstown.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.06 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision (section, clause, phrase, word, or any other portion)
of this chapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, the remaining provisions shall not be affected, if and only if
the remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions, be
given the effect intended in adopting this chapter. To this end, the provisions
of this chapter are severable.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.07 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this chapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter. These rights, liabilities, and other
proceedings are continued and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the
repealed or amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.08 FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees shall be in accordance with the official permit fee
schedule as adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Hagerstown. Reinspection
fees for work found incomplete or not ready upon requested inspection shall be
as in the official permit fee schedule. Permit re-issue fees shall be in the
official permit fee schedule. Investigation fees of work for which a permit is
required and has been commenced without first obtaining a permit shall be as in
the official permit fee schedule.
   (B)   Building permit fees may only be reduced or waived by the Town
Council. A written request shall be submitted to the Hagerstown Town Council
indicating why the permit fee should be reduced or waived. The Building
Commissioner shall submit the request to the Hagerstown Town Council with a
recommendation.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 153.09 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction.
A building permit shall be required and obtained before beginning any
construction, alteration, or repair of any building or structure which is
anticipated to have a cost which shall exceed $500.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.10 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished;
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, the plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all the construction is to occur entirely
within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the location of the
structure in relation to existing property lines and show streets, curbs and
sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to the streets, curbs, and
sidewalks;
      (4)   If required by Indiana law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3;
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws; and
      (6)   The fee established by Town of Hagerstown.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.11 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee,
provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable building
laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.12 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be issued
unless the building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of the building code. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such
building or structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 153.13 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around, or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this building code or to the rules of the Fire Prevention And Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of the
structure. The inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this building code and the rules of the Fire Prevention And
Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.14 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work cooperatively
to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire
safety laws. (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17).
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.15 LICENSING OF PLUMBERS.
   Licensing of plumbers shall be as regulated by the State of Indiana.
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 153.16 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees to the Building Commissioner
(including checks returned for insufficient funds, permit fees owed pursuant to
the Town of Hagerstown, or inspection fees owed pursuant to the Town of
Hagerstown), the Building Commissioner may withhold the issuance of
subsequently requested permits until the time that the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until the time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.17 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable.
   (A)   The application, plans, or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.
   (B)   The application, plans, or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures.
   (C)   There is failure to comply with the building code.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.18 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this building code or any
state law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this building code or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will substantially difficult to correct the violation; and/
or
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this building code.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.19 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this building code.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.20 MONETARY PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this building code may be subject to a
fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty
shall in no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this
building code.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.21 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this building code shall
have the right to petition for review of any order of the Building
Commissioner.
   (B)   Such a person may file a petition using either, or both, of the
following procedures.
      (1)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this building code
may appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
town that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C.
22-15, a fire safety, or a building rule.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 Structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
         (d)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this building code.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any
statute in which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the
order.
      (2)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. If,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the town has established by ordinance to hear
appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person aggrieved by an order
may petition for review with this administrative body in accordance with said
ordinance. If no administrative body exists, then the person may petition a
court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 153.22 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   Article 13 – Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
         (b)   Indiana Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14 – Indiana Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16 — Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 – Indiana Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18 – Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 – Indiana Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20 –   Indiana Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22 –   Indiana Fire Code;
      (9)   Article 24 –   Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code; and
      (10)   Article 25 –   Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Hagerstown for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this building code. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance
granted by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been
approved by Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.23 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1 a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME Al 8.1 a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of
Hagerstown for public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 153.24 MOBILE HOME FOUNDATIONS.
   In the event, and only in the event, that the zoning code of the Town of
Hagerstown provides for and allows mobile homes to be located in any district
or districts in the town or jurisdictional area in which the town controls
zoning regulation and which are not located in a mobile home park, the
installation and tie-down requirements for manufactured housing shall be as
specified by the manufacturer of the home. In the absence of the
specifications, installation shall be as provided for in the Indiana
Residential Code.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
EFFECTIVE DATE
§ 153.25 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This building code shall be in full force and effect from and after the date
on which both of the following have occurred.
   (A)   The Town Council has adopted this Building Code/Ordinance.
   (B)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana has
approved of this chapter as required by I.C. 22-13-2-5.
(Ord. 19-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE FOR BUILDING CODE PERMITS
   Note: Building Permit Fee and Fine Schedule is at the end of Appendix A
   (1)   New homes. The designation SF shall mean square feet each time it
appears throughout this section.
 
Construction Type (1) Required Inspections Additional Fees         Permit Fee
Up to 1,071 SF        4                    See Building Permit Fee $75
                                           and Fine Schedule
1,072 SF and over     4                    See Building Permit Fee $.07 per SF
                                           and Fine Schedule
Notes to Table: Square footage shall be based on outside dimensions to include
attached garage if applicable. Multi-store dwellings shall be total of square
feet of all levels.
 
   (2)   Room addition, residential.
 
Construction Type (2) Required Inspections Additional Fees Permit Fee
Up to 750 SF          2                    $20             $75
751 SF and over       2                    $20             $.10 per SF
Notes to Table: Square footage shall be based on outside dimensions to
include attached garage if applicable. Multi-store dwellings shall be total
of square feet of all levels. See also the Building Permit Fee and Fine
Schedule for additional fees and fines.
 
   (3)   Residential remodeling.
 
Construction Type (3) Required Inspections Additional Fees Permit Fee
Up to $18,750         2                    $20             $75
Over $18,750          2                    $20             $4 per $1,000 of
                                                           actual cost
Notes to Table: Square footage shall be based on outside dimensions to
include attached garage if applicable. Multi-store dwellings shall be total
of square feet of all levels. See also the Building Permit Fee and Fine
Schedule for additional fees and fines.
 
   (4)   Garages (detached), pole barns, patios, porches, decks, accessory
buildings (based on outside dimensions).
 
Construction Type (4) Required Inspections Additional Fees Permit Fee
Up to 600 SF          1                    $20             $20
601 to 1,200 SF       1                    $20             $30
1,201 and over SF     1                    $20             $40
Notes to Table: Square footage shall be based on outside dimensions to
include attached garage if applicable. Multi-store dwellings shall be total
of square feet of all levels. See also the Building Permit Fee and Fine
Schedule for additional fees and fines.
 
   (7)   Commercial, institutional, industrial structures (new).
 
Construction Type  Required Inspections Reinspection Fees Permit Fee
(7)
                                                          $1.50 per $1,000 of
All                6                    $20               actual cost (minimum
                                                          $75)
Notes to Table: Square footage shall be based on outside dimensions to include
attached garage if applicable. Multi-store dwellings shall be total of square
feet of all levels. See also the Building Permit Fee and Fine Schedule for
additional fees and fines.
 
   (8)   (a)   Commercial, institutional, industrial structures (remodeling
except roofing and siding).
 
Construction Type  Required Inspections Reinspection Fees Permit Fee
(8)
                                                          $1.50 per $1,000 of
All                6                    $20               actual cost (minimum
                                                          $75)
 
      (b)   Commercial, institutional, industrial structures (roofing and
siding only).
 
Construction Type  Required Inspections Reinspection Fees Permit Fee
(8)
                                                          $35 for the first
                                                          $10,000/in excess of
All                2                    $20               $10,000, treated as
                                                          remodeling (except
                                                          roofing and siding)
Notes to Table: Square footage shall be based on outside dimensions to include
attached garage if applicable. Multi-store dwellings shall be total of square
feet of all levels. See also the Building Permit Fee and Fine Schedule for
additional fees and fines.
 
   (9)   Swimming pools (residential).
 
Construction Type (9) Required Inspections Reinspection Fees Permit Fee
Above-grade           1                    $20                  $20
Below-grade           2                    $20                  $40
 
   (10)   Swimming pools (commercial).
 
Construction Type (10) Required Inspections* Reinspection Fees* Permit Fee*
Notes to Table:
* Based on the number of inspections deemed necessary by the Building
Commissioner in relation to the scope of the project and communicated to the
applicant prior to construction, based on the following formula: number of
inspections times $20 equals fee.
 
   (11)   Certificate of occupancy. Certificate of occupancy shall not be
issued until the time as permit holder documents the final cost of the work to
the Building Commissioner on construction wherein fee is based on actual costs.
Any fee adjustment shall be resolved at this time.
   (12)   Demolition of building.
 
Construction Type (12) Required Inspections* Reinspection Fees* Permit Fee*
Notes to Table:
* Based on the number of inspections deemed necessary by the Building
Commissioner in relation to the scope of the project and communicated to the
applicant prior to demolition, based on the following formula: number of
inspections times $20 equals fee. In addition to the fee, demolition of a
building requires a $1,000 performance bond.
 
   (13)   Moving or changing location of buildings.
 
Construction Type (14) Required Inspections* Reinspection Fees* Permit Fee*
                                             $20                $20
Notes to Table:
* Based on the number of inspections deemed necessary by the Building
Commissioner in relation to the scope of the project and communicated to the
applicant prior to demolition, based on the following formula: number of
inspections times $20 equals fee.
 
   (14)   Cumulative fees. The town hereby establishes a limit on the total
amount of permit fees that the town shall collect as Building Code related fees
from the same project. In no event shall the total permit fees for the same
project exceed $500. However, any reinspection fees collected due to the
failure of the person to pass any initial inspections shall not count toward
the limit amount and are fees that shall be in excess of said limit.
(Ord. 13-2019, passed 1-6-2020)
BUILDING PERMIT FEE AND FINE SCHEDULE
   (1)   Residential additions(a).
      $0.10/sq. ft. with a minimum fee of $75.
      Includes two inspections. If further inspections are needed, additional
inspection fees will be charged at $20 each.
   (2)   Residential remodeling and repairs(b).
      $4 per $1,000 actual cost with a minimum fee of $75.
      Includes two inspections. If further inspections are needed, additional
inspection fees will be charged at $20 each.
   (3)   New construction.
      $0.07/sq. ft. with a $75 minimum in addition to the following:
         $25 improvement location permit fee
         $35 certificate of occupancy
         $35 mechanical permit
         $35 plumbing permit
         $35 electrical permit
         $20 code violation re-inspections (per inspection)
   (4)   Fine schedule.
      Starting work without permit: $150(c)
      Underestimating/misrepresenting cost: $150
FOOTNOTES:
   (a)   Including but not limited to porches, decks, garages, carports,
sunrooms, etc.
   (b)   Remodel or repair id defined as a minimum of $2,000 work that includes
any of the following:
         -   Replacing or altering roofing, siding, structural components,
garage doors, exterior doors (excluding storm doors) or windows
         -   Finishing attic or basement living spaces
         -   Any change that affects or includes plumbing, structural items or
electrical changes from the panel out to the supply lines
   (c)   If contact is made with the Building Commissioner by mail or phone
call (including leaving a message with Town Hall personnel) BEFORE beginning
the job, the starting work without permit fine will not apply.
CHAPTER 154: RESERVED
CHAPTER 155: THOROUGHFARE PLAN
Section
   
155.01   Scope and purpose
   
155.02   Short title
   
155.03   Maps of thoroughfares
   
155.04   Drawings of cross-sections
   
155.05   Designation of thoroughfares
   
155.06   Policies and directives
   
155.07   Authority of Town Plan Commission
   
155.08   Amendments
   
155.09   Thoroughfare plan on file
   
155.10   Duty of Clerk-Treasurer
§ 155.01 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish an official thoroughfare plan to
promote the orderly development of the town and its environs; to improve the
health, safety, convenience, and welfare of its residents to the end that the
highway system be carefully planned; that new community centers grow only with
adequate highway facilities; that the needs of industry, business, and
agriculture be recognized in future growth; that residential areas provide safe
and healthy surroundings for family life; that the development of the town be
commensurate with the promotion of the efficient and economical use of public
funds for the purpose of formulating definite policies for the laying out,
development, and improvement of public streets and highways; to provide
services to platted and unplatted land; and to provide for the establishment of
a thoroughfare fund.
(Ord. 3-1958, passed 4-21-1958; Am. Ord. 6-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 155.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter, as amended, shall hereafter be referred to as the Thoroughfare
Plan of the Town of Hagerstown.
(Ord. 3-1958, passed 4-21-1958; Am. Ord. 6-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 155.03 MAPS OF THOROUGHFARES.
   (A)   The official thoroughfare plan of the town and its environs is shown
on the maps listed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following plans, as amended, which reflect the policy of the town
with respect to the present and future development of thoroughfares, are
incorporated into and made a part of this chapter:
      (1)   Comprehensive Development Plan, Hagerstown, Indiana, 1974, Sheet
one of two; and
      (2)   Comprehensive Development Plan, Jurisdictional Area, Hagerstown,
Indiana, 1974, Sheet two of two.
   (C)   Notations, references, indications, and other details shown on the
thoroughfare plan portions of the comprehensive development plan maps are as
much a part of this chapter as if they were fully described in the text of this
chapter.
(Ord. 3-1958, passed 4-21-1958; Am. Ord. 6-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 155.04 DRAWINGS OF CROSS-SECTIONS.
   A drawing entitled Typical Thoroughfare Cross Sections, Hagerstown, Indiana,
showing cross-sections for streets as designated on the comprehensive
development plan maps, is incorporated by reference to this chapter.
(Ord. 3-1958, passed 4-21-1958; Am. Ord. 6-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 155.05 DESIGNATION OF THOROUGHFARES.
   The thoroughfares are classified as to width and type in accordance with
their functions as a part of the thoroughfare system, and are designated as
arterial, feeder, and residential streets as shown on the comprehensive
development plan maps. The streets are to be provided with the right-of-way
widths shown on the plan maps as set out in §
155.06 and are to be improved.
(Ord. 3-1958, passed 4-21-1958; Am. Ord. 6-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 155.06 POLICIES AND DIRECTIVES.
   (A)   Opening or widening of streets. Whenever a street designated in the
thoroughfare plan is to be platted as a part of the subdivision of land, the
right-of-way width shall conform to the policies and specified designations and
indications in the thoroughfare plan; however, where a street borders a tract
of land to be subdivided, the owner of the land shall be required to plat only
one-half of the right-of-way width designated for the street, measured at 90
degrees to the center line thereof.
   (B)   Location of streets. Wherever the locations of the streets are
indicated in the thoroughfare plan as following existing roads or streets, or
section or half-section lines, or other established property lines, they shall
conform to these locations; however, streets lying wholly within a subdivision,
and not designated as following an existing road or a section line, may be
varied in their alignment when the variance promotes the plan of a neighborhood
development unit in accordance with good site-planning principles, and if the
alignment provides for the continuity of traffic movement. Streets which follow
irregular alignment, or indicate revised alignments, or are not referenced to
established lines, shall follow in a general manner the alignment shown on the
thoroughfare plan maps. Their alignment shall be subject to detailed surveys
which may be made by the Town Engineer, the Town Plan Commission or other
public agencies, or by the owners of land to be subdivided. The surveys shall
be subject to the approval of the Town Plan Commission prior to the acquisition
of land or the filing of subdivision plans affecting the streets.
   (C)   Consideration of public agencies. After adoption of the official
thoroughfare plan and this chapter, the Town Council and other governing bodies
within the jurisdiction of the Commission shall be guided by and give
consideration to the general policy and pattern of development set out in the
official thoroughfare plan in the authorization, construction, alteration, or
abandonment of public highways and structures.
   (D)   Issuance of permits. In the case of permits authorized by the Town
Council for the erection or alteration of structures and other improvements,
the permit shall be issued only if the proposed street and thoroughfare rights-
of-way as set forth in the official thoroughfare plan will be protected from
encroachment, and, for planning and zoning purposes, the proposed street and
thoroughfare right-of-way lines will be considered as the front line of lots
and tracts bordering the streets and thoroughfares.
(Ord. 3-1958, passed 4-21-1958; Am. Ord. 6-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.07 AUTHORITY OF TOWN PLAN COMMISSION.
   Subsequent to the adoption of the official thoroughfare plan and the passage
of this chapter, the Town Plan Commission may:
   (A)   Determine lines for new, extended, widened, or narrowed thoroughfares
in any portion of its jurisdiction; and
   (B)   Certify to the Town Council the amended or additional plan under the
same procedures as established for the certification and approval of the
official thoroughfare plan.
(Ord. 3-1958, passed 4-21-1958; Am. Ord. 6-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 155.08 AMENDMENTS.
   In addition to the provisions of §
155.07, amendments may be initiated as follows.
   (A)   The Town Council may direct the Town Plan Commission to prepare an
amendment, as desired, and submit it to public hearing within 60 days after
formal written request by the Town Council.
   (B)   The owners of 50% or more of the property abutting upon a street may
also petition the Town Plan Commission requesting an amendment to the official
thoroughfare plan.
(Ord. 3-1958, passed 4-21-1958; Am. Ord. 6-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 155.09 THOROUGHFARE PLAN ON FILE.
   The maps, charts, plans, reports, and ordinances which comprise the
thoroughfare plan are on file in the office of the Building Commissioner and
office of the Clerk-Treasurer in the Town Hall and are available for public
inspection during all regular office hours.
(Ord. 3-1958, passed 4-21-1958; Am. Ord. 6-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 155.10 DUTY OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Building Commissioner and the Clerk-Treasurer of the town are directed
to keep on file, for public inspection during all regular office hours, two
copies of the thoroughfare plan including maps, charts, reports, and
ordinances.
(Ord. 3-1958, passed 4-21-1958; Am. Ord. 6-1975, passed 4-21-1975)
CHAPTER 156: ELECTRICAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
156.01   Adoption of National Electrical Code
   
156.02   Residential Wiring Code
§ 156.01 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   For provisions concerning the adoption of the National Electrical Code by
the Municipal Electric Utility, see
Chapter 51.
§ 156.02 RESIDENTIAL WIRING CODE.
   For provisions concerning the establishment of a residential wiring code by
the Municipal Electric Utility, see §§
51.110 et seq.
CHAPTER 157: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
   
157.01   Adoption by reference
§ 157.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Flood Hazard Prevention Ordinance of the Town of Hagerstown, Indiana, is
hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in full herein. The full text of
the Flood Hazard Prevention Ordinance is available to the public: 1) in the
Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer during regular office hours; or 2) on the
town website www.hagerstown.in.gov.
(Ord. 2-2015, passed 3-16-2015)
CHAPTER 158: BUILDING COMMISSIONER
Section
   
158.01   Establishment of office
   
158.02   Authority
§ 158.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.
   (A)   There is established the Office of Building Commissioner in the town,
which shall consist of the Building Commissioner, and may also consist of a
Secretary and assistants, as approved by the Town Council. BUILDING
COMMISSIONER, as used in this chapter, includes individuals employed by the
town that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   The Town Council is authorized to employ a Building Commissioner,
Secretary, and other employees it deems necessary to support and operate the
office of the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   The employment of the Building Commissioner and appointments related
to the office of the Building Commissioner shall be at-will, at the discretion
of the Town Council and subject to any and all employee rules and regulations
as set forth in the Town Code or any Personnel Policy and Safety Manuals
applicable to town employees.
(Ord. 4-2023, passed 4-3-2023)
§ 158.02 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the following:
      (1)   All of the provisions of the town’s Building Code (
Chapter 153 of the Town Code);
      (2)   Any and all other matters within the town code requiring action or
administration by the Building Commissioner;
      (3)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
      (4)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
   (B)   The basic duties of the Building Commissioner are as follows.
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the Board of Zoning Appeals (“BZA”),
improvement location permits and certificates of occupancy and maintain records
thereof; however, it shall be the privilege of the BZA or any members of the
BZA to require that an application submitted to the Building Commissioner be
brought before the BZA for its review and actions.
      (2)   Issue building permits, conduct inspections of buildings,
structures and use of land to determine compliance with the terms of this
chapter, and report findings and violations to the Plan Commission and the BZA
for the purpose of ordering compliance.
      (3)   Provide interpretation of the Master Plan and the Building Code
when necessary and provide the technical and clerical assistance to the Plan
Commission and BZA as either may require.
      (4)   Provide and maintain a public information service relative to all
matters arising out of the Master Plan and the Building Code.
      (5)   Provide information to the Plan Commission and the BZA and maintain
permanent and current records arising from the administration of the Master
Plan and the Building Code, including, but not limited to, all maps,
amendments, improvement location permits, certificates of occupancy, variances,
conditional uses and appeals, and applications thereof, and records of hearing
thereon.
      (6)   Attend all Plan Commission and BZA meetings.
   (C)   The powers of the Building Commissioner shall include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the following.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner, including assistants under his or her
supervision, is authorized to enforce all of the provisions of the Building
Code, the Zoning Code, and all other provisions of the Master Plan. In the
performance of these functions the Building Commissioner, and the assistants
under his or her supervisor shall be responsible to the Town Council, the Plan
Commission, and the BZA.
      (2)   If the Building Commissioner finds that any of the provisions of
the Master Plan and the Building Code are being violated, he or she shall
notify in writing the person responsible for the violations, indicating the
nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or
she shall order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structures;
removal of illegal buildings or structural changes; discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by law to
ensure compliance with or to prevent violations of these provisions.
      (3)   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of
interpretation of provisions of the Master Plan and the building code shall be
first presented to the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 4-2023, passed 4-3-2023)
CHAPTER 159: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
159.01   Establishment
   
159.02   Scope
   
159.03   Definitions
   
159.04   Public nuisances
   
159.05   Building Commissioner authorization
   
159.06   Rules and standards established by ordinance
   
159.07   Unsafe building defined
   
159.08   Workmanlike manner
   
159.09   Director
   
159.10   Unsafe Building Fund
   
159.11   Contractor
   
159.12   Sealing and securing of vacant building or structure
   
159.13   Repaired and rehabilitated building or structure
   
159.14   Vacant more than six months
   
159.15   Exterior maintained
   
159.16   Violation
   
159.17   Town Council
   
159.18   Complaint and summons
   
159.99   Penalty
§ 159.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-3, there is hereby established the
Unsafe Building Ordinance of the Town of Hagerstown.
(Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 159.02 SCOPE.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1, 36-7-9-2 as amended herein, 36-7-9-3 through 36-7-9-10, 36-7-
9-11, and 36-7-9-12 as amended herein, and 36-7-9-13 through 36-7-9-28 are
hereby adopted by reference as the Unsafe Building Ordinance of the Town of
Hagerstown, together with any and all amendments thereto that are made
following the date of adoption of this chapter. All proceedings within the
corporate limits of the town, for inspection, repair, and removal of unsafe
buildings shall be governed by the law and the sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 159.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in
the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular.
The word PERSONS includes a corporation, unincorporated association and
BUILDING includes STRUCTURE and shall be construed as if followed by the words
“or part thereof.”
   DEPARTMENT. The office of Building Commissioner of the Town.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Building Commissioner or his or her authorized
representative.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Town Council.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate, a future interest, a present possessory or an
equitable interest of a contract purchaser. The interest reflected by a deed,
lease, license, mortgage, land sale contract, or lien is not a substantial
property interest unless the deed, lease, license, mortgage, land sale
contract, lien of evidence of it is:
      (1)   Recorded in the office of the Wayne County Recorder; and/or
      (2)   The subject of a written information that is received by the
Building Commissioner and includes the name and address of the holder of the
interest described.
(Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 159.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined,
after inspection by the Building Commissioner, to be unsafe as defined in this
chapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal in accordance with the
procedures specified herein.
(Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.05 BUILDING COMMISSIONER AUTHORIZATION.
   The Building Commissioner or his or her authorized representative shall be
authorized to administer and to proceed under the provisions of the law in
ordering the repair or removal of any buildings found to be unsafe as defined
by state law adopted herein and the definitions set forth in §
153.03.
(Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.06 RULES AND STANDARDS ESTABLISHED BY ORDINANCE.
   Wherever in the building code of the town or in this chapter it is provided
that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the direction of
the Building Commissioner or any other officer of the town, this shall be
construed to give the officer only the discretion of determining whether the
rules and standards established by ordinance have been complied with; and no
provisions shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what the regulations or standards shall be, power to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or
discretionary manner.
(Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.07 UNSAFE BUILDING DEFINED.
   The definition of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is hereby
supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or maintenance
in the town by adding the following definition.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an unsafe
building, provided that the conditions or defects exist to the extent that
life, health, property, or safety of the public or its occupants are
endangered.
      (1)   Whenever a door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (2)   Whenever the stress in any materials, members, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress and stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location.
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to an extent that the structural strength
or stability thereof is materially less than it was before the catastrophe and
is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of similar structure,
purpose, or location.
      (4)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for the buildings.
      (6)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction.
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of: dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting the building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (8)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
      (9)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
      (10)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting member, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings.
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons
for the purpose of committing unlawful acts.
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to the building or structure provided by the building code of this
town, or of any law or ordinance of this state or this town relating to the
condition, location, or structure of buildings.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any nonsupporting
part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member, or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, and
occupancy in the same location.
      (14)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the County Health
Department to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in a condition that
is likely to cause sickness or disease.
      (15)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, or heating apparatus, or other cause is determined by the Fire
Department to be a fire hazard.
      (16)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute the building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
      (17)   Any building or structure in a condition as to constitute a public
nuisance known to the common law or equity jurisprudence.
(Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.08 WORKMANLIKE MANNER.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair, or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the building code and regulations pertaining to construction, plumbing,
electrical, mechanical, and one- and two-family dwellings, promulgated by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana and as amended
hereafter, shall be considered standard acceptable practice for all matters
covered by this chapter or orders issued pursuant to this chapter by the
Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.09 DIRECTOR.
   In any instance where the word DIRECTOR is used in the provisions of the
Indiana Code as adopted herein, the same shall be construed to apply to the
Building Commissioner of the town.
(Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 159.10 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-12 and pursuant to the
provisions contained therein any balance remaining at the end of a fiscal year
shall be carried over in the fund for the following year and does not revert to
the General Fund.
(Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 159.11 CONTRACTOR.
   In any instance where the words CONTRACTOR or CONTRACTOR LICENSED AND
QUALIFIED UNDER LAW are used in I.C. 36-7-9-11, I.C. 36-7-9-12, or any other
sections of the statute, as adopted herein, requirements are modified in that
any contractor approved by the Building Commissioner may perform any work that
is required in complying with the orders of the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.12 SEALING AND SECURING OF VACANT BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The sealing and securing of any vacant building or structure,
including any work performed subject to an order and issued under the Unsafe
Building Ordinance of the town or any work performed by an owner of his or her
own initiative, shall be required to be accomplished pursuant to the following
uniform standard: Screws or double headed nails shall be utilized to fasten 1/
2-inch exterior grade plywood to all exterior openings of every floor. The
plywood shall be cut and installed to precisely fit each opening so as to
present a neat, workmanlike appearance. The plywood shall be painted white or
other neutral color.
   (B)   Prior to the sealing and securing of any vacant building or structure,
the building or structure shall be cleared of all human inhabitants.
(Ord. 5-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.13 REPAIRED AND REHABILITATED BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   Any building or structure that has been sealed and secured shall be repaired
and rehabilitated as required to bring the building or structure into
compliance with the present building code prior to the building or structure
being again occupied or used.
(Ord. 5-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.14 VACANT MORE THAN SIX MONTHS.
   Any building or structure that has been vacant for more than six months may
be deemed to be an unsafe building pursuant to the Unsafe Building Ordinance of
the town.
(Ord. 5-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.15 EXTERIOR MAINTAINED.
   (A)   The exterior of all premises and the condition of all buildings and
structures thereon shall be maintained so that the appearance thereof shall
reflect a level of maintenance in keeping with the standards of the town and so
as to avoid blighting effects and hazard to health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   The owner and operator shall keep the exterior of all premises and
every structure thereon including but not limited to walls, roofs, cornices,
chimneys, drains, towers, porches, landings, fire escapes, stairs, refuse or
garbage containers, store fronts, signs, windows, doors, awnings and marquees,
in good repair, and all surfaces thereof shall be kept painted or protected
with other approved coating or material where necessary for the purpose of
preservation and avoiding a blighting influence on adjoining properties.
Exterior wood, composition, or metal surfaces shall be protected from the
elements by paint or other protective covering. Surfaces shall be maintained so
as to be kept clean and free of flaking, loose, or peeling paint or covering.
Those materials whose appearance and maintenance would be enhanced by a natural
weathering effect or other natural effects may remain untreated.
   (C)   All surfaces shall be maintained free of broken glass, loose shingles,
crumbling stone or brick, peeling paint, when the peeling consists of at least
33 1/3% of the surface area, or other conditions reflective of deterioration or
inadequate maintenance, and not show evidence of weathering, discoloration,
ripping, tearing, or other holes or breaks, to the end that the property itself
may be preserved safely and fire hazards eliminated, and adjoining properties
and the neighborhood protected from blighting influences.
   (D)   All premises shall be maintained and lawn, hedges, bushes, trees, and
other vegetation shall be kept trimmed and from becoming overgrown and
unsightly where exposed to public view or where the vegetation may constitute a
blighting influence on adjoining property.
   (E)   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure, and sanitary condition as provided herein
so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or
safety.
(Ord. 5-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.16 VIOLATION.
   (A)   If any property owner violates the provisions of this chapter, the
property owner shall be notified in writing of the violation. Notice of the
violation shall be written notice and shall include a statement of the nature
of the violation, location of Building Commissioner and Town Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, identification of the violator, and identification of issuing official.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall send a Violation Notice by certified
mail or by delivery in person to the property owner found to be in violation of
this chapter and that person shall have a maximum of 15 days to complete and
return a form letter indicating agreement to Correct the Violation Within 30
Days or to Appeal the Violation.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a request for an appeal, the Building Commissioner
shall notify the appellant in writing of the place and dates to schedule an
appeal. The property owner may appeal The Violation, The Compliance
Requirements, or The Completion Date.
   (D)   Upon presentation of convincing evidence, the Building Commissioner
may negotiate an adjusted Compliance Schedule commensurate with the evidence
presented and in keeping with this chapter.
   (E)   Upon proof of hardship, a resident-owner may be granted a continuance
for those violations requiring the expenditure of unavailable funds provided
that the violations do not adversely affect the public health or safety.
(Ord. 5-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.17 TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council shall have the authority to grant special variances
or relief to any provisions or requirements of this chapter and may prescribe
any conditions or requirements deemed necessary to minimize adverse effects
upon the community.
   (B)   The Town Council may develop standards and procedures for the
implementation and enforcement of these provisions.
(Ord. 5-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 159.18 COMPLAINT AND SUMMONS.
   The Building Commissioner may file a complaint and summons in the Town Court
to enforce the penalties of this chapter or, through the Town Council, may also
request the Town Attorney to bring action on behalf of the town in the Circuit
or Superior Courts of Wayne County, Indiana, for mandatory and injunctive
relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders
made by the Building Commissioner or his or her authorized representative, and
an action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with the action to
recover the penalties provided for in this chapter. Any person adjudged guilty
of a violation of this chapter may also be adjudged to pay the costs of
prosecution.
(Ord. 5-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006, passed 12-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 159.99
§ 159.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee,
or occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of §§
159.01 through
159.11 or any order issued by the Building Commissioner. Any person violating
those sections of this chapter shall be liable for a penalty of an amount not
to excel $2,500 per day as provided by law.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of §§
159.12 through
159.18 shall not be less than $25 no more than $2,500. Each and every day the
violation continues shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. 8-1975, passed 4-21-1975; Am. Ord. 1-1991, passed 1-1-1991; Am. Ord. 5-
1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am Ord. 6-1990, passed 9-16-1991; Am. Ord. 20-2006,
passed 12-4-2006)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
   
II.   ANNEXATIONS
   
III.   CONTRACTS AND FRANCHISES
   
IV.   VACATIONS
   
V.   REGION NINE DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
   
VI.   FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
   
VII.   BONDS
TABLE I: ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-1963   4-1-1963    Acceptance of l6.83 acres from the Sohio Pipe Line
                     Company.
3-1975   3-3-1975    Authorizes sale of parts of Section 22, Township 17 North,
                     Range 12 East.
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
5-1969   8-18-1969   A part of Section 23, Township 17 North, Range 12 East.
6-1969   11-3-1969   A part of Section 23, Township 17 North, Range 12 East.
4-1973   10-1-1973   A part of Section 14, Township 17 North, Range 12 East.
7-1974   10-21-1974  Parts of Section 22, Township 17 North, Range 12 East.
1-1980   1-7-1980    Parts of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23, Township 17 North, Range
                     12 East, and Lots 1 through 11 in the Allen Addition.
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2-1966   7-5-1966    Hagerstown Natural Gas Company - to maintain and operate a
                     gas works.
                     Public Service Company of Indiana, Inc. - an agreement for
2-1968   6-3-1968    supply of electric service to municipal electric
                     distributing systems.
10-1981  7-20-1981   Clearview Cable TV - to provide a community antenna
                     television system for the town.
                     An enabling ordinance to facilitate enforcement of a
4-1987   8-17-1987   contract between the town and Nettle Creek School
                     Corporation to regulate vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
                     Ordinance confirming renewal and extension of a cable
7-2004   10-4-2004   franchise agreement to construct and operate a cable
                     system.
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-1969   2-3-1969    Vacating alley extending from Clay St. to Madison St.
3-1972   5-15-1972   Vacating portion of alley running east and west from Petty
                     St. to North Pearl St.
                     Vacating portion of alley running north and south in Block
5-1974   4-1-1974    58, extending south from south line of Northwood
                     Subdivision.
6-1974   4-1-1974    Vacating a part of Pearl St. and Factory St.
6-1979   6-18-1979   Vacating portion of alley between Lot 6 of Block 2 and Lot
                     7B of Block 2.
7-1979   6-18-1979   Vacating the whole of Water St.
11-1979  11-5-1979   Vacating portion of alley between Lots 7, 8, 9, 10, and
                     Lots 11, 12, 13, 14 of Block 24.
12-1979  11-5-1979   Vacating portion of Northmarket St. adjoining Lots 11, 12,
                     13, 14 of Block 24.
10-2022  10-3-2022   Vacating a public way.
                    
 
TABLE V: REGION NINE DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3-1974   6-17-1974   Approving agreement for participation in the cooperative
                     operation of Region Nine Development Commission.
 
TABLE VI: FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Adopting local Flood Control Project to prevent flooding
4-1989   7-17-1989   and to protect the public health and welfare and the town
                     sewage works.
 
TABLE VII: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the issuance of sewage works revenue bonds for
3-1994   8-22-1994   the purpose of providing funds to pay the cost of certain
                     additions, extensions, and improvements to the municipal
                     sewage works of the town.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1963 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Code Section
I.C.                                Code Section
1-1-1-5                             10.04
1-1-1-7                             10.12
1-1-1-8                             10.06
1-1-4-5                             10.05
1-1-5-1                             10.11
1-1-6-1                             10.08
3-2-9-10                            30.05
3-10-6                              31.11
3-10-6-2.6                          31.11
3-10-7                              31.11
3-10-7-34                           30.02
3-13-1-5                            30.05
3-13-6-1–3-13-6-3                 30.05
3-13-9-1                            30.05
3-13-9-4                            30.06
3-13-11-5                           30.05
3-13-11-12                          30.05
3-13-11-16                          30.05
3-13-11-18                          30.05
4-21.5-3-7                          153.21
5-1                                 93.30
5-1-14-14                           41.10;
                                    41.12
5-2-1-1 et seq.                     33.06
5-2-1-1–5-2-1-15                  33.06
5-2-8                               30.07
5-3-1                               93.31
5-4-1                               34.55
5-4-1-1                             30.03
5-4-1-4                             30.03
5-4-1-8                             30.04
5-4-1-9                             30.04
5-10.1-1-1                          35.12
5-10.1-1-1–5-10.1-6-4             35.11
5-10.3-2-1 et seq.                  35.12
5-11                                31.06
5-11-1-9(b)                         31.10
5-14-1.5                            34.54
5-14-1.5-3.5                        32.03
5-14-1.5-3.7                        32.03
5-14-3                              42.01
5-22                                35.17;
                                    39.11
6-1.1-12.1 et seq.                  115.01
                                    115.01;
6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.                115.03;
                                    150.25
6-1.1-12.1-4.5                      115.02
6-1.1-12.1-5.9                      115.02
6-1.1-20                            93.30
6-1.1-20-3.1(a)                     93.30
6-1.1-20-3.5(a)                     93.30
6-3.5-7-13.1                        41.10
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A)                 40.10
6-8-5-1                             93.30
7.1-3-19-1–7.1-3-19-16            113.01
8-22-2-l et seq.                    36.35;
                                    36.36
9-13-2-1                            98.01
9-13-2-1 et seq.                    70.02
9-13-2-6                            70.02
9-13-2-14                           70.02
9-13-2-69.7                         76.01
9-13-2-105                          70.02
9-18.1-14-1 et seq.                 76.02
9-18.1-14-11                        76.03
                                    70.05;
                                    71.10;
9-21-1-3                            71.30;
                                    72.01;
                                    Ch. 75, Sch. V
9-21-3-1 et seq.                    70.15
9-21-4-11                           72.06
9-21-5-3                            71.01
9-21-5-6                            71.01
9-21-8-32                           71.29
9-21-9-3                            76.08
9-21-9-4                            76.08
9-21-16-1 et seq.                   70.10
9-21-17-1                           73.01
9-21-20-1                           70.02
9-21-20-2                           70.02
9-21-20-3                           70.02
9-22-1                              98.03;
                                    98.05
9-22-1-1 et seq.                    98.01–
                                    98.03
9-22-1-1– 9-22-1-32               98.01
9-22-1-8                            98.02
9-22-1-11                           98.03
9-22-1-13(a)                        98.04
9-22-1-13(b)                        98.04
9-22-1-23                           98.02;
                                    98.03
                                    98.02;
9-22-1-30                           98.03;
                                    98.05
9-25-4-5                            76.05
9-29-4 et seq.                      70.11
9-29-11-1                           30.07
10-19-2-1                           40.09,
                                    43.06
14-8-2-5.7                          76.01
14-8-2-233.5                        76.01
16-18-2-110                         70.02
16-22-8                             70.02
22-9-1-4 et seq.                    97.02
22-9-5-6                            97.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.                    97.01
22-9.5-2-2                          97.02
22-9.5-2-3                          97.02
22-9.5-2-4                          97.02
22-9.5-2-8                          97.02
22-9.5-2-9                          97.02
22-9.5-2-11                         97.02
22-9.5-2-13                         97.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.                    97.10
22-9.5-3                            97.03
22-9.5-4-8                          97.11
22-9.5-5                            97.02
22-9.5-5-1                          97.03
22-9.5-5-6                          97.02
22-9.5-6                            97.02;
                                    97.11
22-12                               153.21
22-12-1-1 et seq.–22-15-7-1 et seq111.02
22-12-1-4                           153.03
22-12-1-5                           153.03
22-12-1-7                           153.03
22-12-1-14                          153.03
22-12-1-17                          153.03
22-12-1-18                          153.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12)                   153.23
22-12-1-24                          153.03
22-12-1-26                          153.03
22-12-7                             158.02
22-13                               153.21
22-13-2-3(b)                        153.22
22-13-2-5                           153.25
22-13-2-6                           153.04
22-13-2-7                           153.21
22-13-2-7(b)                        153.22
22-13-2-9                           153.04
22-13-2-11                          158.02
22-14                               153.21
22-15                               153.21
22-15-3                             153.10
22-15-4                             153.04
31-6-4-15.7                         131.02
31-11-6-1                           31.10
31-30                               131.01
31-37-1 et seq.                     131.99
31-37-3                             131.01;
                                    131.02
31-37-19-27                         131.02
32-25-2-9                           153.03
33-35                               37.03
33-35-1-1                           37.01
33-35-2-8                           37.02
33-35-3-1                           31.06
33-35-3-2                           31.06
33-36-2-1–33-36-2-3               38.01
33-36-3-1–33-36-3-7               38.01
35-46-1-8                           131.02
36-1-2-1–36-1-2-24                10.05
36-1-3-8                            70.99
                                    10.99;
                                    51.999;
                                    52.99;
                                    53.99;
                                    90.99;
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                     93.99;
                                    95.99;
                                    96.99;
                                    110.99;
                                    111.99;
                                    112.99
                                    53.66;
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)                  53.96;
                                    53.99
36-1-5-4                            153.22;
                                    153.23
36-1-6-4                            153.19
36-1-6-9                            153.21
36-1-8-5                            40.03
36-1-8-5.1                          40.03
36-1-12                             35.17
36-1-20.2                           35.17
36-1-21                             35.17
36-4-6-14                           10.17
36-5                                10.19
36-5-1-1 et seq.–36-5-7-1 et seq. 32.01
36-5-2-1 et seq.                    30.01
36-5-2-3                            32.02
36-5-2-7                            31.01;
                                    32.04
36-5-2-8                            31.10;
                                    32.05
36-5-2-9                            32.07
36-5-2-10                           32.01
36-5-3-2(a)                         32.06
36-5-3-2(b)                         32.06
36-5-3-2(c)                         32.06
36-5-3-2(d)                         32.06
36-5-5                              31.41
36-5-6-1 et seq.                    30.01
36-5-6-2                            31.05
36-5-6-3                            31.11
36-5-6-4                            31.11
36-5-6-5                            31.10
                                    31.06;
36-5-6-6                            31.07;
                                    31.09;
                                    31.10
36-5-6-7                            31.10
36-5-6.5                            31.05;
                                    31.06
36-5-7-2                            33.01;
                                    33.05
36-5-7-4                            33.03
                                    33.02;
36-5-7-6                            33.04;
                                    33.05
36-6-9-1                            159.02
36-7-4-100 et seq.                  150.99
36-7-4-101 et seq.                  34.25;
                                    150.17
36-7-4-207                          150.16
36-7-4-509–36-7-4-511             150.09
36-7-9-1                            159.02
36-7-9-2                            10.05;
                                    159.02
36-7-9-3                            159.01
36-7-9-4                            159.07
36-7-9-10                           159.02
36-7-9-11                           159.02;
                                    159.11
                                    159.02;
36-7-9-12                           159.10;
                                    159.11
36-7-9-13–36-7-9-28               159.02
36-7-10.1-4                         99.04
36-7-12-6–36-7-12-15              34.02
36-7-12-15(2)                       34.02
36-7-14                             34.35
36-8-2-6                            90.01
36-8-13-4                           43.06
36-8-17                             153.14
36-9-2-7                            94.01
                                    50.01;
36-9-2-14                           51.010;
                                    52.08
                                    50.01;
36-9-2-15                           51.010;
                                    52.08
36-9-6-19                           92.02
36-9-23-31                          53.83
36-9-23-31 et seq.                  53.83
36-9-32-7                           41.13
36-10-3-3                           93.34
36-10-3-4                           93.07
36-10-3-5                           93.07
36-10-3-5(f)                        93.08
36-10-3-8                           93.09
36-10-3-8(c)                        93.11
36-10-3-9                           93.10
36-10-3-10                          93.06
36-10-3-11                          93.06;
                                    93.41
36-10-3-11(3)                       93.40
36-10-3-13                          93.20
36-10-3-14                          93.21
36-10-3-15                          93.22
36-10-3-17                          93.25;
                                    93.26
36-10-3-18                          93.13
36-10-3-19(b)                       93.14
36-10-3-22                          93.16;
                                    93.18
36-10-3-23                          93.30;
                                    93.31
                                    93.30;
36-10-3-24                          93.32;
                                    93.33
36-10-3-25                          93.31
36-10-3-26                          93.32
36-10-3-27                          93.33
36-10-3-28                          93.34
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1963 CODE
1963 Code 2007 Code
1963 Code   2007 Code
Ch. 2, § 1 31.02
Ch. 2, § 3 33.02,
            33.04
Ch. 2, § 4 31.07
Ch. 2, § 5 31.09
Ch. 3, § 1 90.10
Ch. 3, § 2 90.10
Ch. 3, § 2 90.11,
            90.12
Ch. 3, § 3 90.13,
            94.03
Ch. 3, § 4 90.14
Ch. 3, § 5 90.15
Ch. 3, § 7 90.16,
            90.17
Ch. 3, § 8 90.18
Ch. 3, § 9 90.19
Ch. 3, § 1090.20
Ch. 3, § 1190.21
Ch. 3, § 1390.01
Ch. 3, § 1490.02
Ch. 3, § 1590.03
Ch. 5, § 6 130.02
Ch. 5, § 7 130.03
Ch. 5, § 8 130.04
Ch. 5, § 9 130.05
Ch. 5, § 10130.06
Ch. 5, § 11131.01
Ch. 5, § 12131.02
Ch. 7, § 2 92.02,
            92.03
Ch. 7, § 3 92.04
Ch. 7, § 4 92.05
Ch. 8, § 3 111.01
Ch. 8, § 5 111.02
Ch. 8, § 6 111.03
Ch. 8, § 7 111.04
 
1963 Code 2007 Code
1963 Code       2007 Code
Ch. 8, § 9     112.02
Ch. 8, § 10    112.01
Ch. 8, § 11    112.03-
                112.06
Ch. 8, § 13    110.01
Ch. 8, § 14    110.02
Ch. 8, § 15    110.03
Ch. 9, § 1     93.02
Ch. 9, § 3     93.03
Ch. 10, § l    94.01
Ch. 10, § 2    94.02
Ch. 11, §§ 1-170.02
Ch. 11, § 11   70.06
Ch. 11, § 12   70.07
Ch. 11, § 13   70.09
Ch. 11, § 14   70.10
Ch. 11, § 15   70.08
Ch. 11, § 16   70.15
Ch. 11, § 17   70.16
Ch. 11, § 18   70.17
Ch. 11, § 19   70.18
Ch. 11, § 20   72.01
Ch. 11, § 21   72.02
Ch. 11, § 22   72.03
Ch. 11, § 24   72.04
Ch. 11, § 25   72.05
Ch. 11, § 26   72.06
Ch. 11, § 27   71.29
Ch. 11, § 28   71.30
Ch. 11, § 30   71.28
Ch. 11, § 31   71.10
Ch. 11, § 32   71.27
Ch. 11, § 33   71.15
Ch. 11, § 34   71.25
Ch. 11, § 37   71.26
Ch. 11, § 38   71.01-
                71.03
Ch. 11, § 52   73.01
Ch. 11, § 55   70.05
Ch. 11, § 64   70.01
Ch. 12, § 3    50.02,
                50.03
Ch. 12, § 4    50.04
Ch. 12, § 6    50.01
 
1963 Code 2007 Code
1963 Code           2007 Code
Ch. 12, § 7        50.06
Ch. 12, § 8        50.05
Ch. 12, § 17       53.21
Ch. 12, § 19       53.08
Ch. 12, § 24       51.135
Ch. 13, Part 1, § 1150.15
Ch. 13, Part 1, § 2150.16
Ch. 13, Part 1, § 3150.15
Ch. 13, Part 1, § 4150.17
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2-1983   1-19-1983   150.25
1-2007   5-7-2007    31.11
1-2011   6-20-2011   31.12
6-2012   12-17-2012  35.17
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2-1922   - -         33.02;
                     33.04
3-1949   - -         53.08
1-1957   - -         150.15–
                     150.17
6-1978   - -         32.02
8-1958   - -         51.135
1-1978   - -         92.04
2-2000   - -         93.55
1-1878   4-15-1878   92.02;
                     92.99
12-1878  4-15-1878   94.01
17-1878  4-15-1878   90.01
18-1878  4-15-1878   31.07
19-1878  4-15-1878   31.02;
                     94.03
20-1878  4-15-1878   130.05
27-1878  4-15-1878   92.03
34-1878  4-15-1878   130.04;
                     130.05
40-1878  4-15-1878   90.01
41-1878  4-15-1878   31.09
47-1879  12-15-1879  130.06
48-1882  5-8-1882    90.01
90-1899  3-20-1899   130.02
110-1911 2-6-1911    130.03
                     50.01;
2-1927   5-16-1927   50.05;
                     50.06
                     110.01–
1-1933   1-16-1933   110.03;
                     110.99
4-1936   10-19-1936  92.05;
                     92.99
                     70.02;
                     70.05-
                     70.10;
                     70.15-
                     70.18;
                     71.01-
                     71.03;
1-1942   1-5-1942    71.10;
                     71.15;
                     71.25-
                     71.30;
                     72.01-
                     72.06;
                     73.01;
                     94.02
1-1944   1-3-1944    90.02;
                     90.03
1-1946   2-4-1946    53.21
                     90.10–
4-1949   10-3-1949   90.21;
                     90.99
                     111.01–
2-1953   6-15-1953   111.03;
                     111.99
2-1957   5-20-1957   131.01;
                     131.02
1-1958   4-7-1958    90.14
2-1958   4-21-1958   Ch. 94, App. A
3-1958   4-21-1958   155.01–
                     155.10
2-1960   8-15-1960   50.02–
                     50.04
                     112.01–
2-1962   11-19-1962  112.06;
                     112.99
                     93.02;
1-1963   4-1-1963    93.03;
                     TSO I
                     93.04–
                     93.18;
                     93.20-
                     93.22;
1-1964   6-1-1964    93.25;
                     93.26;
                     93.40;
                     93.41;
                     93.99
                     51.007–
3-1965   12-6-1965   51.010;
                     51.136-
                     51.138
2-1966   7-5-1966    TSO III
1-1968   3-25-1968   53.80;
                     53.83
2-1968   6-3-1968    TSO III
4-1968   12-16-1968  92.10;
                     92.99
1-1969   2-3-1969    TSO IV
                     90.14–
2-1969   3-17-1969   90.18;
                     90.21
3-1969   3-17-1969   111.04;
                     111.05
5-1969   8-l8-1969   TSO II
6-1969   11-3-1969   TSO II
3-1972   5-15-1972   TSO IV
5-1972   9-18-1972   131.04
4-1973   10-1-1973   TSO II
                     53.01;
                     53.05;
                     53.15-
                     53.20;
                     53.31;
                     53.33;
                     53.36;
                     53.37;
5-1973   1-4-1974    53.40-
                     53.47;
                     53.49;
                     53.58;
                     53.70;
                     53.90;
                     53.94;
                     53.98;
                     53.99
5-1974   4-1-1974    TSO IV
6-1974   4-1-1974    TSO IV
3-1974   6-17-1974   TSO V
                     70.02;
4-1974   8-19-1974   74.01-
                     74.10;
                     74.99
7-1974   10-21-1974  TSO II
3-1975   3-3-1975    TSO I
                     150.01–
5-1975   4-21-1975   150.09;
                     150.99
6-1975   4-21-1975   155.01–
                     155.10
8-1975   4-21-1975   159.99
9-1975   4-21-1975   Ch. 94, App. A
11-1975  12-15-1975  53.80;
                     53.83
1-1976   3-1-1976    113.01
                     33.02;
3-1976   8-30-1976   33.04;
                     33.05
4-1976   10-4-1976   92.11;
                     92.99
2-1977   10-3-1977   92.02;
                     92.99
3-1977   11-21-1977  52.08
                     92.20–
5-1978   10-16-1978  92.22;
                     92.99
3-1978   12-3-1978   34.01;
                     34.02
4-1978   12-18-1978  51.009;
                     51.010
2-1979   2-5-1979    53.42
6-1979   6-18-1979   TSO IV
7-1979   6-18-1979   TSO IV
9-1979   7-16-1979   51.008–
                     51.010
8-1979   7-30-1979   53.80;
                     53.83
1979-10A 9-4-1979    36.35;
                     36.36
                     51.007–
10-1979  11-5-1979   51.010;
                     51.136-
                     51.138
11-1979  11-5-1979   TSO IV
12-1979  11-5-1979   TSO IV
14-1979  12-17-1979  93.20
1-1980   1-7-1980    TSO II
11-1980  12-1-1980   53.80;
                     53.83
                     51.007;
                     51.008;
1-1981   2-2-1981    51.011;
                     51.136-
                     51.138
6-1981   5-4-1981    52.08
10-1981  7-20-1981   TSO III
                     94.10–
12-1981  8-3-1981    94.14;
                     94.99;
                     Ch. 94, App. A
1-1982   2-1-1982    30.07
                     51.007;
2-1982   2-15-1982   51.136-
                     51.138
9-1982   11-15-1982  37.01–
                     37.03
                     95.01–
11-1982  12-6-1982   95.03;
                     95.99
12-1982  12-20-1982  50.07
                     51.007;
1-1983   5-2-1983    51.011;
                     51.136-
                     51.138
4-1983   11-7-1983   37.03
2-1984   5-7-1984    112.02
                     70.05;
1-1985   2-4-1985    71.01;
                     74.05
2-1985   3-18-1985   70.02
3-1985   3-18-1985   74.01
4-1985   3-18-1985   37.04
5-1985   3-18-1985   70.20–
                     70.26
                     72.01–
6-1985   4-1-1985    72.06;
                     72.99
7-1985   4-1-1985    Ch. 75, Sch. I–
                     III
12-1985  11-18-1985  52.08;
                     53.42
                     51.007;
1-1987   3-16-1987   51.136-
                     51.138
4-1987   8-17-1987   TSO III
3-1987   9-21-1987   150.3–
                     150.38
4-1989   7-17-1989   TSO VI
                     93.01;
5-1989   11-21-1989  96.01;
                     96.02
1-1990   6-18-1990   38.01–
                     38.03
8-1990   9-4-1990    53.83
1-1991   1-1-1991    159.99
                     53.01–
                     53.07;
                     53.15-
                     53.21;
                     53.30-
                     53.37;
                     53.40-
                     53.50;
                     53.55;
                     53.57-
9-1990   7-1-1991    53.59;
                     53.65;
                     53.67,
                     53.68;
                     53.70-
                     53.74;
                     53.80-
                     53.83;
                     53.90-
                     53.98;
                     53.99
                     159.12–
5-1990   9-16-1991   159.18;
                     159.99
                     159.01–
6-1990   9-16-1991   159.11;
                     159.99
                     52.01–
                     52.07;
4-1991   12-30-1991  52.09-
                     52.24;
                     52.99
3-1992   7-6-1992    34.35–
                     34.43
                     71.26;
4-1992   8-3-1992    71.31;
                     71.99
5-1992   10-5-1992   71.01
6-1992   11-16-1992  92.12;
                     92.99
                     51.001–
                     51.011;
                     51.020;
                     51.021;
                     51.030;
                     51.031;
                     51.040;
                     51.050;
                     51.060-
                     51.062;
7-1992   12-21-1992  51.075-
                     51.081;
                     51.090-
                     51.092;
                     51.100;
                     51.110-
                     51.123;
                     51.135-
                     51.139;
                     51.145-
                     51.147;
                     51.999
8-1992   - -1992     35.01–
                     35.16
1-1993   11-1-1993   114.01
3-1994   8-22-1994   TSO VII
4-1994   9-12-1994   53.83
1-1995   2-6-1995    52.08
1-1996   12-18-1995  52.08
1-1996   5-6-1996    31.25
2-1996   5-6-1996    32.08
4-1996   10-7-1996   53.84
6-1996   10-7-1996   35.01;
                     35.15
1-1997   4-7-1997    32.02
2-1997   4-21-1997   94.16;
                     94.99
3-1997   10-6-1997   32.02
4-1997   10-6-1997   92.11;
                     92.99
2-1998   4-6-1998    53.83
3-1998   6-15-1998   99.01–
                     99.04
4-1998   8-3-1998    30.08
5-1998   8-3-1998    40.02
6-1998   8-17-1998   39.10–
                     39.12
7-1998   8-17-1998   39.01;
                     39.02
12-1998  11-16-1998  31.01–
                     31.03
2-1999   6-7-1999    40.01
5-1999   10-18-1999  35.07
3-2000   11-6-2000   98.01–
                     98.05
                     54.01–
1-2001   6-4-2001    54.07;
                     54.99
1-2002   7-1-2002    52.08
1-2003   4-7-2003    35.01
4-2003   7-7-2003    31.35–
                     31.41
3-2003   8-4-2003    53.80
                     51.001;
                     51.075;
6-2003   12-15-2003  51.080;
                     51.137;
                     51.138
1-2004   3-1-2004    52.08;
                     52.15
3-2004   3-1-2004    40.03
7-2004   10-4-2004   TSO III
                     35.05;
8-2004   12-6-2004   35.07;
                     35.13;
                     35.14
                     35.05;
7-2005   - -2005     35.07;
                     35.13;
                     35.14
                     52.01;
                     52.08;
1-2005   2-7-2005    52.14;
                     52.15;
                     52.20
                     51.001;
                     51.008;
                     51.009;
                     51.011;
2-2005   4-4-2005    51.030;
                     51.031;
                     51.040;
                     51.136-
                     51.138
3-2005   4-4-2005    40.04
4-2005   5-2-2005    52.08
5-2005   6-6-2005    53.80
9-2005   8-1-2005    39.20
                     41.01;
1-2006   2-6-2006    41.10-
                     41.15
                     159.01–
20-2006  - -2006     159.18;
                     159.99
                     41.01;
6-2006   5-1-2006    41.10-
                     41.15
9-2006   9-5-2006    93.55
10-2006  9-5-2006    32.03
11-2006  9-5-2006    30.09
12-2006  10-2-2006   30.07
15-2006  11-6-2006   Ch. 153, App. A
                     153.01–
19-2006  12-4-2006   153.14;
                     153.16-
                     153.25
                     10.99;
                     34.99; 51.99;
                     52.22;
                     52.99;
                     53.34;
                     53.48;
                     53.99;
                     54.99;
8-2007   - -         90.99;
                     93.99;
                     94.99;
                     95.99;
                     96.99;
                     110.99;
                     111.99;
                     112.99;
                     130.99
1-2007   2-5-2007    39.11;
                     39.12
2-2007   5-7-2007    40.05
3-2007   5-7-2007    99.03;
                     99.04
                     131.01;
5-2007   5-7-2007    131.02;
                     131.99
6-2007   6-4-2007    10.19
9-2007   10-1-2007   31.38
                     50.01;
                     50.07;
                     51.001;
                     51.007;
                     51.031;
                     51.040;
1-2008   1-22-2008   51.041;
                     51.139;
                     52.01;
                     52.06;
                     52.08;
                     52.14;
                     52.20;
                     52.25
4-2008   6-2-2008    35.03
1-2009   2-17-2009   51.062;
                     51.092
3-2009   3-17-2009   51.030;
                     52.14
8-2009   5-19-2009   40.06
9-2009   6-1-2009    40.07
12-2009  11-17-2009  99.03;
                     99.04
13-2009  12-1-2009   51.079;
                     51.136
3-2010   4-19-2010   94.16
5-2010   6-7-2010    53.83
6-2010   6-7-2010    52.08
8-2010   6-21-2010   93.18
9-2010   9-7-2010    53.83
10-2010  9-20-2010   42.01–
                     42.03
11-2010  10-6-2010   91.01;
                     91.03
1-2011   4-18-2011   40.08
2-2011   4-18-2011   51.136–
                     51.138
                     150.15;
4-2011   11-21-2011  150.16;
                     150.37;
                     150.38
7-2011   9-19-2011   91.05
2-2012   3-5-2012    38.04
6-2012   8-20-2012   33.02
7-2012   10-1-2012   91.01;
                     91.03
2-2013   4-1-2013    34.56; 34.57; 34.58
3-2013   5-20-2013   35.01
5-2013   8-19-2013   90.02;
                     90.03
6-2013   10- -2013   53.09
                     52.06;
7-2013   10-21-2013  52.08;
                     52.20
8-2013   11-4-2013   43.01–
                     43.06
10-2013  11-4-2013   51.031;
                     51.139
12-2013  11- -2013   70.11
1-2014   4- -2014    72.99
2-2014   6-2-2014    91.06
3-2014   9-2-2014    55.01–
                     55.10
1-2015   2- -2015    38.04;
                     131.03
2-2015   3-16-2015   157.01
3-2015   4-20-2015   40.09
4-2015   5-18-2015   44.01–
                     44.10
5-2015   7-20-2015   51.031
6-2015   7-20-2015   91.06
                     51.030;
10-2015  11-16-2015  52.14;
                     53.83
1-2016   1-18-2016   90.13
3-2016   5-16-2016   30.10
4-2016   6-6-2016    40.10
4-2017   2-21-2017   40.12
6-2017   5-1-2017    40.11
7-2017   9-18-2017   151.01
9-2017   8-21-2017   53.56;
                     53.66
14-2017  12-4-2017   52.06
15-2017  12-4-2017   51.079
2-2018   4-2-2018    52.18
6-2018   7-2-2018    40.13
7-2018   9-4-2018    52.08
1-2019   1-7-2019    40.14
                     91.01–
2-2019   2-4-2019    91.12,
                     91.99
3-2019   3-4-2019    72.06
5-2019   5-6-2019    40.15
                     Ch. 75, Schs.
7-2019   11-4-2019   IV,
                     V
8-2019   9-17-2019   51.140
9-2019   9-9-2019    97.01–
                     97.11
13-2019  1-6-2020    Ch. 153, App. A
1-2020   1-6-2020    40.16
                     53.56;
1-2021   1-4-2021    53.66;
                     53.96;
                     53.99
3-2021   3-1-2021    30.11
5-2021   5-3-2021    51.031
6-2021   5-3-2021    52.15
7-2021   4-5-2021    40.17
10-2021  5-3-2021    32.03
14-2021  7-6-2021    40.18
16-2021  11-1-2021   92.99
17-2021  12-6-2021   52.08
                     53.41;
18-2021  12-6-2021   53.83;
                     53.84
2-2022   6-6-2022    52.08
4-2022   8-12-2022   51.136–
                     51.138
10-2022  10-3-2022   TSO IV
                     76.01–
3-2023   2-6-2023    76.11,
                     76.99
4-2023   4-3-2023    158.01,
                     158.02
12-2023  9-5-2023    40.19
3-2024   6-3-2024    52.08
8-2025   5-5-2025    51.136–
                     51.138
                    
 
